# § 383.141   General.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to State agencies responsible for issuing hazardous materials endorsements for a CDL, and applicants for such endorsements.


(b) *Prohibition.* A State may not issue, renew, upgrade, or transfer a hazardous material endorsement for a CDL to any individual authorizing that individual to operate a commercial motor vehicle transporting a hazardous material in commerce unless—


(1) The Transportation Security Administration has determined that the individual does not pose a security risk warranting denial of the endorsement; or


(2) The individual holds a valid TWIC. 


(c) *Individual notification.* At least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the CDL or hazardous materials endorsement, a State must notify the holder of a hazardous materials endorsement that the individual must pass a Transportation Security Administration security threat assessment process as part of any application for renewal of the hazardous materials endorsement. The notice must advise a driver that, in order to expedite the security screening process, he or she should file a renewal application as soon as possible, but not later than 30 days before the date of expiration of the endorsement. An individual who does not successfully complete the Transportation Security Administration security threat assessment process referenced in paragraph (b) of this section may not be issued a hazardous materials endorsement.


(d) *Hazardous materials endorsement renewal cycle.* Each State must require that hazardous materials endorsements be renewed every 5 years or less so that individuals are subject to a Transportation Security Administration security screening requirement referenced in paragraph (b) of this section at least every 5 years.



---

[N] [68 FR 24850, May 5, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 63033, Nov. 7, 2003; 69 FR 51393, Aug. 19, 2004; 70 FR 22271, Apr. 29, 2005; 77 FR 59825, Oct. 1, 2012; 84 FR 52034, Oct. 1, 2019; 89 FR 90620, Nov. 18, 2024]






