# § 98.173   Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process CO_2_ emissions from each taconite indurating furnace, basic oxygen furnace, non-recovery coke oven battery, sinter process, EAF, decarburization vessel, and direct reduction furnace using the procedures in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. Calculate and report the annual process CO_2_ emissions from the coke pushing process according to paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) Calculate and report under this subpart the process CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(b) Calculate and report under this subpart the process CO_2_ emissions using the procedure in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) *Carbon mass balance method.* Calculate the annual mass emissions of CO_2_ for the process as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(vii) of this section. The calculations are based on the annual mass of inputs and outputs to the process and an annual analysis of the respective weight fraction of carbon as determined according to the procedures in § 98.174(b). If you have a process input or output other than CO_2_ in the exhaust gas that contains carbon that is not included in Equations Q-1 through Q-7 of this section, you must account for the carbon and mass rate of that process input or output in your calculations according to the procedures in § 98.174(b)(5).


(i) For taconite indurating furnaces, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-1 of this section.


(ii) For basic oxygen process furnaces, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-2 of this section.


(iii) For non-recovery coke oven batteries, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-3 of this section.


(iv) For sinter processes, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-4 of this section.


(v) For EAFs, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-5 of this section.


(vi) For decarburization vessels, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-6 of this section.


(vii) For direct reduction furnaces, estimate CO_2_ emissions using Equation Q-7 of this section.


(2) *Site-specific emission factor method.* Conduct a performance test and measure CO_2_ emissions from all exhaust stacks for the process and measure either the feed rate of materials into the process or the production rate during the test as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section.


(i) You must measure the process production rate or process feed rate, as applicable, during the performance test according to the procedures in § 98.174(c)(5) and calculate the average rate for the test period in metric tons per hour.


(ii) You must calculate the hourly CO_2_ emission rate using Equation Q-8 of this section and determine the average hourly CO_2_ emission rate for the test.


(iii) You must calculate a site-specific emission factor for the process in metric tons of CO_2_ per metric ton of feed or production, as applicable, by dividing the average hourly CO_2_ emission rate during the test by the average hourly feed or production rate during the test.


(iv) You must calculate CO_2_ emissions for the process by multiplying the emission factor by the total amount of feed or production, as applicable, for the reporting period.


(c) You must determine emissions of CO_2_ from the coke pushing process in mtCO_2_e by multiplying the metric tons of coal charged to the by-product recovery and non-recovery coke ovens during the reporting period by 0.008.


(d) If GHG emissions from a taconite indurating furnace, basic oxygen furnace, non-recovery coke oven battery, sinter process, EAF, decarburization vessel, or direct reduction furnace are vented through a stack equipped with a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 methodology in subpart C of this part, or through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports CO_2_ emissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be used to calculate process emissions. The owner or operator shall report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.33(a)(4) and comply with all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66464, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71956, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89258, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31928, Apr. 25, 2024]










