# ยง 63.5993   What performance tests and other procedures must I use?

(a) If you use a control system to meet the emission limitations, you must conduct each performance test in table 5 to this subpart that applies to you, except that for the rubber processing affected source, you must conduct performance tests according to table 17 instead of table 5.


(b) Each performance test must be conducted according to the specific conditions specified in table 5 to this subpart, except that for the rubber processing affected source, you must conduct performance tests according to table 17 instead of table 5.


(c) Before January 21, 2021, you may not conduct performance tests during periods startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(1). After January 20, 2021, performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator or an applicable subpart. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(d) Before January 21, 2021, you must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(1) unless otherwise specified in the test method. Each test run must last at least 1 hour. After January 20, 2021, you must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, unless otherwise specified in the test method. Each test run must last at least 1 hour.


(e) If you are complying with the emission limitations using a control system, you must also conduct performance tests according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section as they apply to you. The provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section do not apply to the rubber processing subcategory.


(1) *Determining capture efficiency of permanent or temporary total enclosure.* Determine the capture efficiency of a capture system by using one of the procedures in Table 5 to this subpart.


(2) *Determining capture efficiency of an alternative method.* As an alternative to constructing a permanent or temporary total enclosure, you may determine the capture efficiency using any capture efficiency protocol and test methods if the data satisfy the criteria of either the Data Quality Objective or the Lower Confidence Limit approach in appendix A to subpart KK of this part.


(3) *Determining efficiency of an add-on control device.* Use Table 5 to this subpart to select the test methods for determining the efficiency of an add-on control device.



 



---

[N] [67 FR 45598, July 9, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 44761, July 24, 2020; 89 FR 94908, Nov. 29, 2024]




