# ยง 7.15   Assessment of civil penalties.

(a) The Federal land manager may assess a civil penalty against any person who has violated any prohibition contained in ยง 7.4 or who has violated any term or condition included in a permit issued in accordance with the Act and this part.


(b) *Notice of violation.* The Federal land manager shall serve a notice of violation upon any person believed to be subject to a civil penalty, either in person or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). The Federal land manager shall include in the notice:


(1) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;


(2) A specific reference to the provision(s) of this part or to a permit issued pursuant to this part allegedly violated;


(3) The amount of penalty proposed to be assessed, including any initial proposal to mitigate or remit where appropriate, or a statement that notice of a proposed penalty amount will be served after the damages associated with the alleged violation have been ascertained;


(4) Notification of the right to file a petition for relief pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, or to await the Federal land manager's notice of assessment, and to request a hearing in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. The notice shall also inform the person of the right to seek judicial review of any final administrative decision assessing a civil penalty.


(c) The person served with a notice of violation shall have 45 calendar days from the date of its service (or the date of service of a proposed penalty amount, if later) in which to respond. During this time the person may:


(1) Seek informal discussions with the Federal land manager;


(2) File a petition for relief in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;


(3) Take no action and await the Federal land manager's notice of assessment;


(4) Accept in writing or by payment the proposed penalty, or any mitigation or remission offered in the notice. Acceptance of the proposed penalty or mitigation or remission shall be deemed a waiver of the notice of assessment and of the right to request a hearing under paragraph (g) of this section.


(d) *Petition for relief.* The person served with a notice of violation may request that no penalty be assessed or that the amount be reduced, by filing a petition for relief with the Federal land manager within 45 calendar days of the date of service of the notice of violation (or of a proposed penalty amount, if later). The petition shall be in writing and signed by the person served with the notice of violation. If the person is a corporation, the petition must be signed by an officer authorized to sign such documents. The petition shall set forth in full the legal or factual basis for the requested relief.


(e) *Assessment of penalty.* (1) The Federal land manager shall assess a civil penalty upon expiration of the period for filing a petition for relief, upon completion of review of any petition filed, or upon completion of informal discussions, whichever is later.


(2) The Federal land manager shall take into consideration all available information, including information provided pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section or furnished upon further request by the Federal land manager.


(3) If the facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred, the Federal land manager shall so notify the person served with a notice of violation, and no penalty shall be assessed.


(4) Where the facts warrant a conclusion that a violation has occurred, the Federal land manager shall determine a penalty amount in accordance with ยง 7.16.


(f) *Notice of assessment.* The Federal land manager shall notify the person served with a notice of violation of the penalty amount assessed by serving a written notice of assessment, either in person or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). The Federal land manager shall include in the notice of assessment:


(1) The facts and conclusions from which it was determined that a violation did occur;


(2) The basis in ยง 7.16 for determining the penalty amount assessed and/or any offer to mitigate or remit the penalty; and


(3) Notification of the right to request a hearing, including the procedures to be followed, and to seek judicial review of any final administrative decision assessing a civil penalty.


(g) *Hearings.* (1) Except where the right to request a hearing is deemed to have been waived as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the person served with a notice of assessment may file a written request for a hearing with the adjudicatory body specified in the notice. The person shall enclose with the request for hearing a copy of the notice of assessment, and shall deliver the request as specified in the notice of assessment, personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested).


(2) Failure to deliver a written request for a hearing within 45 days of the date of service of the notice of assessment shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing.


(3) Any hearing conducted pursuant to this section shall be held in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554. In any such hearing, the amount of civil penalty assessed shall be determined in accordance with this part, and shall not be limited by the amount assessed by the Federal land manager under paragraph (f) of this section or any offer of mitigation or remission made by the Federal land manager.


(h) *Final administrative decision.* (1) Where the person served with a notice of violation has accepted the penalty pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the notice of violation shall constitute the final administrative decision;


(2) Where the person served with a notice of assessment has not filed a timely request for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the notice of assessment shall constitute the final administrative decision;


(3) Where the person served with a notice of assessment has filed a timely request for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the decision resulting from the hearing or any applicable administrative appeal therefrom shall constitute the final administrative decision.


(i) *Payment of penalty.* (1) The person assessed a civil penalty shall have 45 calendar days from the date of issuance of the final administrative decision in which to make full payment of the penalty assessed, unless a timely request for appeal has been filed with a U.S. District Court as provided in section 7(b)(1) of the Act.


(2) Upon failure to pay the penalty, the Federal land manager may request the Attorney General to institute a civil action to collect the penalty in a U.S. District Court for any district in which the person assessed a civil penalty is found, resides, or transacts business. Where the Federal land manager is not represented by the Attorney General, a civil action may be initiated directly by the Federal land manager.


(j) *Other remedies not waived.* Assessment of a penalty under this section shall not be deemed a waiver of the right to pursue other available legal or administrative remedies.




