# ยง 301.87-5   Issuance and cancellation of certificates and limited permits.

(a) A certificate shall be issued by an inspector for the movement of a regulated article if the inspector:


(1)(i) Determines that it has been treated under the direction of an inspector 
1 in accordance with part 305 of this chapter; or


(ii) Determines based on inspection of the article and the premises of origin that it is free from sugarcane diseases. The term *sugarcane diseases* means leaf scald disease with respect to movement of regulated articles from Hawaii and means gummosis disease and leaf scald disease with respect to movements of regulated articles from Puerto Rico;


(2) Determines that it is to be moved in compliance with any additional conditions deemed necessary under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) 
2 to prevent the spread of sugarcane diseases; and


(3) Determines that it is eligible for unrestricted movement under all other Federal domestic plant quarantines applicable to the article.


(b) A limited permit shall be issued by an inspector for the movement of a regulated article if the inspector:


(1) Determines, in consultation with the Deputy Administrator, that it is to be moved:


(i) For a specified purpose (such as for consumption or manufacturing) stated on the limited permit, other than for processing or harvesting sugarcane; and


(ii) To a specified destination stated on the limited permit, which is not in a county or parish where sugarcane is produced, and which is not within 10 miles of a sugarcane field;


(2) Determines that it is to be moved in compliance with any additional conditions deemed necessary under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) 
2 to prevent the spread of sugarcane diseases; and


(3) Determines that it is eligible for such movement under all other Federal domestic plant quarantines applicable to the article.


(c) Certificates and limited permits for shipments of regulated articles may be issued by an inspector or by any person engaged in the business of growing, handling, or moving regulated articles provided such person is operating under a compliance agreement. Any such person may execute and issue a certificate for the interstate movement of a regulated article if the person has treated the regulated article to destroy infection in accordance with the provisions of ยง 301.87-10 and the inspector has made the determination that the article is otherwise eligible for a certificate in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or if the inspector has made the determination that the article is eligible for a certificate in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section without such treatment. Any such person may execute and issue a limited permit for interstate movement of a regulated article when the inspector has made the determination that the article is eligible for a limited permit in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) Any certificate or limited permit which has been issued or authorized may be withdrawn by an inspector if the inspector determines that its holder has not complied with any condition under the regulations for its use. The reasons for the withdrawal shall be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose certificate or limited permit has been withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Deputy Administrator within ten days after receiving the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certificate or limited permit was wrongfully withdrawn. The Deputy Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal in writing, stating the reasons for the decision as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve the conflict under rules of practice which shall be adopted by the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA, for the proceeding.



---

[N] [48 FR 50059, Oct. 31, 1983, as amended at 66 FR 21053, Apr. 27, 2001; 75 FR 4241, Jan. 26, 2010; 87 FR 80016, Dec. 29, 2022]




