# § 721.11233   Cashew nut shell liquid, branched polyester-polyether polyol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as cashew nut shell liquid, branched polyester-polyether polyol (PMN P-17-116) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (2)(i), (3) and (6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 0.1%) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication:* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1%), (f), (g)(1) (sensitization), (2)(i) and (v), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (p) (65,000 kg), and (y)(1). It is a significant new use to manufacture the PMN substance with greater than 0.1% weight residual cashew nut oil.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 66604, Dec. 5, 2019]




