# ยง 1802.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Board* or *Board of Trustees* means the collegial body that conducts the business of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation as specified in section 5(b), Pub. L. 93-642 (20 U.S.C. 2004), consisting of: 


(a) Eight persons appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate; 


(b) Two members of the Senate, one from each political party, appointed by the President of the Senate; 


(c) Two members of the House of Representatives, one from each political party, appointed by the Speaker; and 


(d) The Commissioner of Education or his designee, who serves as an ex officio member of the Board. 


*Chairman* means the presiding officer of the Board. 


*Committee* means any formally designated subdivision of the Board, consisting of at least two Board members, authorized to act on behalf of the Board, including the Board's standing committees and any ad hoc committees appointed by the Board for special purposes. 


*Executive Secretary* means the individual appointed by the Board to serve as the chief executive officer of the Foundation. 


*Meeting* means the deliberations of at least the number of individual voting members of the Board required to take action on behalf of the Board, where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official business of the Board, but does not include: (1) Deliberations to open or close a meeting, to establish the agenda for a meeting, or to release or withhold information, required or permitted by ยง 1802.5 or ยง 1802.6, (2) notation voting or similar consideration of matters whether by circulation of material to members individually in writing, or polling of members individually by telephone or telegram and (3) instances where individual members, authorized to conduct business on behalf of the Board or to take action on behalf of the Board, meet with members of the public or staff. Conference telephone calls that involve the requisite number of members, and otherwise come within the definition, are included. 


*Member* means a member of the Board of Trustees. 


*Staff* includes the employees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation, other than the members of the Board. 




