# § 1.672(f)-5   Special rules.

(a) *Transfers by certain beneficiaries to foreign grantor*—(1) *In general.* If, but for section 672(f)(5), a foreign person would be treated as the owner of any portion of a trust, any United States beneficiary of the trust is treated as the grantor of a portion of the trust to the extent the United States beneficiary directly or indirectly made transfers of property to such foreign person (without regard to whether the United States beneficiary was a United States beneficiary at the time of any transfer) in excess of transfers to the United States beneficiary from the foreign person. The rule of this paragraph (a) does not apply to the extent the United States beneficiary can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the transfer by the United States beneficiary to the foreign person was wholly unrelated to any transaction involving the trust. For purposes of this paragraph (a), the term property includes cash, and a transfer of property does not include a transfer that is not a gratuitous transfer (within the meaning of § 1.671-2(e)(2)). In addition, a gift is not taken into account to the extent such gift would not be characterized as a taxable gift under section 2503(b). For a definition of United States beneficiary, see section 679.


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section: 


(b) *Entity characterization.* Entities generally are characterized under United States tax principles for purposes of §§ 1.672(f)-1 through 1.672(f)-5. See §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-4 of this chapter. However, solely for purposes of § 1.672(f)-4, a transferor that is a wholly owned business entity is treated as a corporation, separate from its single owner.


(c) *Effective date.* The rules in paragraph (a) of this section are applicable to transfers to trusts on or after August 10, 1999. The rules in paragraph (b) of this section are applicable August 10, 1999.



---

[N] [T.D. 8831, 64 FR 43280, Aug. 10, 1999, as amended by T.D. 8890, 65 FR 41334, July 5, 2000]




