# ยง 226.25   Gas well drilled by oil lessees and vice versa.

Prior to drilling, the oil or gas lessee shall notify the other lessees of his/her intent to drill. When an oil lessee in drilling a well encounters a formation or zone having indications of possible gas production, or the gas lessee in drilling a well encounters a formation or zone having indication of possible oil production, he/she shall immediately notify the other lessee and the Superintendent. Lessee drilling the well shall obtain all information which a prudent operator utilizes to evaluate the productive capability of such formation or zone.


(a) *Gas well to be turned over to gas lessee.* If the oil lessee drills a gas well, he/she shall, without removing from the well any of the casing or other equipment, immediately shut the well in and notify the gas lessee and the Superintendent. If the gas lessee does not, within 45 days after receiving notice and cost of drilling, elect to take over such well and reimburse the oil lessee the cost of drilling, including all damages paid and the cost in-place of casing, tubing, and other equipment, the oil lessee shall immediately confine the gas to the original stratum. The disposition of such well and the production therefrom shall then be subject to the approval of the Superintendent. In the event the oil lessee and gas lessee cannot agree on the cost of the well, such cost shall be apportioned between the oil and gas lessee by the Superintendent. If such apportionment is not accepted, the well shall be plugged by the oil and gas lessee who drilled the well.


(b) Oil well to be turned over to oil lessee. If the gas lessee drills an oil well, he/she must immediately, without removing from the well any of the casing or other equipment, notify the oil lessee and the superintendent.


(1) If the oil lessee does not, within 45 days after receipt of notice and cost of drilling, elect to take over the well, he/she must immediately notify the gas lessee. From that point, the superintendent must approve the disposition of the well, and any gas produced from it.


(2) If the oil lessee chooses to take over the well, he/she must pay to the gas lessee:


(i) The cost of drilling the well, including all damages paid; and


(ii) The cost in place of casing and other equipment.


(3) If the oil lessee and the gas lessee cannot agree on the cost of the well, the superintendent will apportion the cost between the oil and gas lessees. If the lessees do not accept the apportionment, the oil or gas lessee who drilled the well must plug the well.


(c) *Lands not leased.* If the gas lessee shall drill an oil well upon lands not leased for oil purposes or vice versa, the Superintendent may, until such time as said lands are leased, permit the lessee who drilled the well to operate and market the production therefrom. When said lands are leased, the lessee who drilled and completed the well shall be reimbursed by the oil or gas lessee, for the cost of drilling said well, including all damages paid and the cost in-place of casing, tubing, and other equipment. If the lessee does not elect to take over said well as provided above, the disposition of such well and the production therefrom shall be determined by the Superintendent. In the event the oil lessee and gas lessee cannot agree on the cost of the well, such cost shall be apportioned between the oil and gas lessee by the Superintendent. If such apportionment is not accepted, the well shall be plugged by the oil and gas lessee who drilled the well.




