# § 122.1   General definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part, unless otherwise stated:


(a) *Aircraft.* An “aircraft” is any device now known, or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation or flight in the air. It does not include hovercraft.


(b) *Aircraft commander.* An “aircraft commander” is any person serving on an aircraft who is in charge or has command of its operation and navigation.


(c) *Agent.* An “agent” is any person who is authorized to act for or in place of:


(1) An owner or operator of a scheduled airline by written authority; or


(2) An owner or operator of a non-scheduled airline, by power of attorney.


(d) *Commercial aircraft.* A “commercial aircraft” is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration, including money or services rendered.


(e) *International airport.* An “international airport” is any airport designated by:


(1) The Secretary of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Customs as a port of entry for aircraft arriving in the U.S. from any place outside thereof and for the merchandise carried on such aircraft;


(2) The Attorney General as a port of entry for aliens arriving on such aircraft; and


(3) The Secretary of Health and Human Services as a place for quarantine inspection.


(f) *Landing rights airport.* A “landing rights airport” is any airport, other than an international airport or user fee airport, at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land.


(g) *Preclearance.* “Preclearance” is the examination and inspection of air travelers and their baggage, at the request of an airline, at foreign places where Customs personnel are stationed for that purpose. Preclearance may be used only for air travelers and their baggage, not for merchandise.


(h) *Private aircraft.* A “private aircraft” is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not:


(1) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes;


(2) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes; or


(3) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes;


(i) *Public aircraft.* A “public aircraft”, is any aircraft owned by, or under the complete control and management of the U.S. government or any of its agencies, or any aircraft owned by or under the complete control and management of any foreign government which exempts public aircraft of the U.S. from arrival, entry and clearance requirements similar to those provided in subpart C of this part, but not including any government owned aircraft engaged in carrying persons or property for commercial purposes. This definition applies if the aircraft is:


(1) Manned entirely by members of the armed forces or civil service of such government, or by both;


(2) Transporting only property of such government, or passengers traveling on official business of such government; or


(3) Carrying neither passengers nor cargo.


(j) *Residue cargo.* “Residue cargo” is any cargo on board an aircraft arriving in the U.S. from a foreign area if the:


(1) Final delivery airport in the U.S. is not the port of arrival; or


(2) Cargo remains on board the aircraft and travels from port to port in the U.S., for final delivery in a foreign area.


(k) *Scheduled airline.* A “scheduled airline” is any individual, partnership, corporation or association:


(1) Engaged in air transportation under regular schedules to, over, away from, or within the U.S.; and


(2) Holding a Foreign Air Carrier Permit or a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity, issued by the Department of Transportation pursuant to 14 CFR parts 201 and 213.


(l) *United States.* Except when used in another context, “U.S.” means the territory of the several States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, including the territorial waters and overlying airspace.


(m) *User fee airport.* A “user fee airport” is an airport so designated by Customs. Flights from a foreign area may be granted permission to land at a user fee airport rather than at an international airport or a landing rights airport. An informational listing of user fee airports is contained in § 122.15.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 88-16, 53 FR 10371, Mar. 31, 1988; T.D. 92-90, 57 FR 43397, Sept. 21, 1992; T.D. 93-66, 58 FR 44130, Aug. 19, 1993]




