# ยง 1.304-7   Certain acquisitions by foreign acquiring corporations.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules regarding the application of section 304(b)(5)(B) to an acquisition of stock described in section 304 by an acquiring corporation that is foreign (foreign acquiring corporation). Paragraph (b) of this section provides the rule for determining which earnings and profits are taken into account for purposes of applying section 304(b)(5)(B). Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules addressing the use of a partnership, option (or similar interest), or other arrangement. Paragraph (d) of this section provides examples that illustrate the rules of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the applicability date.


(b) *Earnings and profits taken into account.* For purposes of applying section 304(b)(5)(B), only the earnings and profits of the foreign acquiring corporation are taken into account in determining whether more than 50 percent of the dividends arising from the acquisition (determined without regard to section 304(b)(5)(B)) would neither be subject to tax under chapter 1 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for the taxable year in which the dividends arise (subject to tax) nor be includible in the earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation (includible by a controlled foreign corporation). For purposes of this section, a controlled foreign corporation has the meaning provided in section 957 and without regard to section 953(c), determined without applying subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3) so as to consider a United States person as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United States person.


(c) *Use of a partnership, option (or similar interest), or other arrangement.* If a partnership, option (or similar interest), or other arrangement, is used with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of this section (for example, to treat a transferor as a controlled foreign corporation), then the partnership, option (or similar interest), or other arrangement will be disregarded for purposes of applying this section.


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. For purposes of the examples, assume the following facts in addition to the facts stated in the examples:


(1) FA is a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation;


(2) FA wholly owns DT, a domestic corporation;


(3) DT wholly owns FS1, a controlled foreign corporation; and


(4) No portion of a dividend from FS1 would be treated as from sources within the United States under section 861.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to acquisitions that are completed on or after September 22, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32532, July 12, 2018]




