# § 165.939   Safety Zones; Annual Events in the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes Zone.

(a) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.23 of this part, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes or his designated on-scene representative.


(2) These safety zones are closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes or his designated on-scene representative.


(3) The “on-scene representative” of the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes to act on his behalf.


(4) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the safety zone must contact the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes or his on-scene representative to obtain permission to do so. The Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes or his on-scene representative may be contacted via VHF Channel 16. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes, or his on-scene representative.


(5) The enforcement dates and times for each of the safety zones listed in Table 165.939 are subject to change, but the duration of enforcement would remain the same or nearly the same total number of hours as stated in the table. In the event of a change, the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes will provide notice to the public by publishing a Notice of Enforcement in the _Federal Register,_ as well as, issuing a Broadcast Notice to Mariners.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


(1) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officers designated by the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes to monitor a safety zone, permit entry into a safety zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within a safety zone, and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes.


(2) *Public vessel* means a vessel that is owned, chartered, or operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof.


(3) *Rain date* refers to an alternate date and/or time in which the safety zone would be enforced in the event of inclement weather.


(c) *Suspension of enforcement.* The Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes may suspend enforcement of any of these zones earlier than listed in this section. Should the Captain of the Port suspend any of these zones earlier than the listed duration in this section, he or she may make the public aware of this suspension by Broadcast Notice to Mariners and/or on-scene notice by his or her designated representative.


(d) *Exemption.* Public vessels, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, are exempt from the requirements in this section.




(e) *Waiver.* For any vessel, the Captain of the Port Eastern Great Lakes or his or her designated representative may waive any of the requirements of this section upon finding that operational conditions or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purposes of safety or security.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-1112, 83 FR 25572, June 4, 2018, as amended by USCG-2019-0121, 84 FR 25994, June 5, 2019;   USCG-2023-0309, 88 FR 48735, July 28, 2023; 88 FR 87930, Dec. 20, 2023]




