# § 415.208   Services of moonlighting residents.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, the term *services of moonlighting residents* refers to services that licensed residents perform that are outside the scope of an approved GME program. 


(b) *Services in teaching hospitals.* (1) The services of residents to inpatients of hospitals in which the residents have their approved GME program are not covered as physician services and are payable under §§ 413.75 through 413.83 regarding direct GME payments. 


(2) Services of residents that are not related to their approved GME programs and are performed in an outpatient department or emergency department of a hospital in which they have their training program are covered as physician services and payable under the physician fee schedule if criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section are met. The services of residents that are not related to their approved GME programs and are furnished to inpatients of a hospital in which they have their training program are covered as physician services and payable under the physician fee schedule if criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section are met. The medical record must include documentation to demonstrate in each case that these criteria are satisfied.


(i) The services are identifiable physician services and meet the conditions for payment of physician services to beneficiaries in providers in § 415.102(a). 


(ii) The resident is fully licensed to practice medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, or podiatry by the State in which the services are performed. 


(iii) The services performed can be separately identified from those services that are required as part of the approved GME program. 


(3) If the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met, the services of the moonlighting resident are considered to have been furnished by the individual in his or her capacity as a physician, rather than in the capacity of a resident. The carrier must review the contracts and agreements for these services to ensure compliance with the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(4) No payment is made for services of a “teaching physician” associated with moonlighting services, and the time spent furnishing these services is not included in the teaching hospital's full-time equivalency count for the indirect GME payment (§ 412.105 of this chapter) and for the direct GME payment (§§ 413.75 through 413.83 of this chapter). 


(c) *Other settings.* Moonlighting services of a licensed resident in an approved GME program furnished outside the scope of that program in a hospital or other setting that does not participate in the approved GME program are payable under the physician fee schedule as set forth in § 415.206(b)(1).





---

[N] [60 FR 63178, Dec. 8, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 47490, Aug. 12, 2005; 85 FR 19289, Apr. 6, 2020; 85 FR 85037, Dec. 28, 2020] 




