# § 252.53   Applicability.

(a) *Scope*—(1) *Applicability.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any covered company, which includes:


(i) Any global systemically important BHC;


(ii) Any Category II bank holding company;


(iii) Any Category III bank holding company;


(iv) Any Category II U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153;


(v) Any Category III U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153; and


(vi) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is made subject to this section pursuant to a rule or order of the Board.


(2) *Ongoing applicability.* (i) A bank holding company (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless and until the bank holding company:


(A) Is not a global systemically important BHC;


(B) Is not a Category II bank holding company; and


(C) Is not a Category III bank holding company.


(ii) A U.S. intermediate holding company (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless and until the U.S. intermediate holding company:


(A) Is not a Category II U.S. intermediate holding company; and


(B) Is not a Category III U.S. intermediate holding company.


(3) *Insurance bank holding companies.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (a), this subpart does not apply to a covered company that is a bank holding company that is subject to part 217, subpart J, of this chapter.


(b) *Transitional arrangements.* (1) A company that becomes a covered company on or before September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the second calendar year after the company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(2) A company that becomes a covered company after September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the third calendar year after the company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.



---

[N] [84 FR 59107, Nov. 1, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 82980, Nov. 27, 2023]




