# ยง 127.200   What are the requirements a concern must meet to qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB?

(a) *Qualification as an EDWOSB.* To qualify as an EDWOSB, a concern must be:




(1) A small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile; and


(2) Not less than 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned and controlled by one or more economically disadvantaged women who are citizens of and reside in the United States.


(b) *Qualification as a WOSB.* To qualify as a WOSB, a concern must be:




(1) A small business as defined in part 121 of this chapter for the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile; and


(2) Not less than 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned and controlled by one or more women who are citizens of and reside in the United States.


(c) *WOSB and EDWOSB certifications.* (1) A concern must be certified as a WOSB or EDWOSB pursuant to ยง 127.300 in order to be awarded a WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source contract.


(2) Other women-owned small business concerns that do not seek WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source contracts may continue to self-certify their status, receive contract awards outside the Program, and count toward an agency's goal for awards to WOSBs.


(d) *Size.* In determining whether a concern qualifies as small for WOSB/EDWOSB certification and recertification under the size standard corresponding to a specific NAICS code, SBA will accept the concern's size representation in the System for Award Management (SAM), or successor system, unless there is evidence indicating that the concern is other than small. SBA will request a formal size determination pursuant to ยง 121.1001(b)(7) of this chapter where any information it possesses calls into question the concern's SAM size representation.


(e) *Federal financial obligations.* A business concern is ineligible to be certified as a WOSB or EDWOSB or to participate in the WOSB program if either the concern or any of its principals has failed to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, including unresolved tax liens and defaults on Federal loans or other Federally assisted financing. However, a small business concern may be eligible if the concern or the affected principals can demonstrate that they are current on an approved repayment plan, or the financial obligations owed have been settled and discharged/forgiven by the Federal Government.


(f) *Suspension and debarment.* In order to be eligible for WOSB and EDWOSB certification and to remain certified, the concern and any of its owners must not have an active exclusion in the System for Award Management at the time of application or recertification.



---

[N] [75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020; 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102505, Dec. 17, 2024]




