# § 156.68   First aid statement.

(a) *Product as sold and distributed.* Each product must bear a first aid statement if the product has systemic effects in Category I, II, or III, or skin or eye irritation effects in Category I or II. 


(b) *Product as diluted for use.* If the product labeling bears directions for dilution with water prior to use, the label may also include a statement describing how the first aid measures may be modified for the diluted product. Such a statement must reflect the Toxicity Category(ies) of the diluted product, based upon data for the route of exposure (or calculations if appropriate). If the labeling provides for a range of use dilutions, only that use dilution representing the highest concentration allowed by labeling may be used as the basis for a statement pertaining to the diluted product. The statement for a diluted product may not substitute for the statement for the concentrate, but augments the information provided for the concentrate. 


(c) *Heading.* The heading of the statement may be “First Aid” or “Statement of Practical Treatment.” 


(d) *Location of first aid statement.* The first aid statement must appear on the front panel of the label of all products assigned to Toxicity Category I by any route of exposure. Upon review, the Agency may permit reasonable variations in the placement of the first aid statement if a reference such as “See first aid statement on back panel” appears on the front panel. The first aid statement for products assigned to Toxicity Categories II or III may appear on any panel of the label.




