# ยง 1665.1   Rules for determining if an individual is the subject of a record.

(a) Individuals desiring to know if a specific system of records maintained by the Selective Service System (SSS) contains a record pertaining to them should address their inquiries in writing or by electronic means to the Selective Service System, ATTN: Records Manager, Public and Intergovernmental Affairs Directorate, Arlington, VA 22209-2425. Online inquiries in English and Spanish may be made at: Contact Us | Selective Service System: Selective Service System (sss.gov) or by email using *PrivacyAct@sss.gov.* The written or electronic inquiry should contain the following information: name and address of the requester, email address of subject (for electronic requests only), identity of the systems of records, and nature of the request. It should also include identifying information specified in the applicable SSS System of Record Notices to assist in identifying the request, such as location of the record, if known, full name, birth date, time periods in which the records are believed to have been complied, etc. SSS Systems of Record Notices subject to the Privacy Act is in the _Federal Register_ and copies of the notices will be available upon request to the records manager. A compilation of such notices will also be made and published by the Office of Federal Register, in accord with 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). Requesters seeking copies of their registration records with the SSS may first seek to obtain their registration number and related information by visiting *https://www.sss.gov/verify/* and making the request. To make this request, the individual must provide their last name, social security number and date of birth when completing the required fields to access their registration information online. For other documentation requests such as for a registration Status of Information Letter (SIL), the individual must make the request electronically or in writing and send via the United States Postal Service (USPS).


(b) For requesters who make a hand-written request for USPS delivery or electronic request for information to SSS, will ordinarily be informed of whether the named system of records contains a record pertaining to the requester within 10 days of receipt of such a request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays). Such a response will also contain or reference the procedures which must be followed by the individual making the request in order to gain access to the record.


(c) Whenever a response cannot be made within 10 days, the records manager will inform the requester of the reason for the delay and the date by which a response may be anticipated.



---

[N] [47 FR 7224, Feb. 18, 1982; 69 FR 1525, Jan. 9, 2004, as amended at 89 FR 35005, May 1, 2024]






