# ยง 702.304   Capital planning.

(a) *Annual capital planning.* (1) A covered credit union must develop and maintain a capital plan. Tier I and tier II credit unions must complete this plan and their capital policy by December 31 each year, but are not required to submit this plan to the NCUA. For tier I and tier II credit unions, the plan must be based on the credit union's financial data from either of the two calendar quarters preceding the quarter in which the plan is approved by the credit union's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board). A tier III credit union must submit this plan and its capital policy to NCUA by May 31 each year, or such later date as directed by NCUA. For tier III credit unions, the plan must be based on the credit union's financial data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or such other date as directed by NCUA.


(2) A covered credit union's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board) must at least annually, and for tier III credit unions, prior to the submission of the capital plan under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:


(i) Review the credit union's process for assessing capital adequacy;


(ii) Ensure that any deficiencies in the credit union's process for assessing capital adequacy are appropriately remedied; and


(iii) Approve the credit union's capital plan.


(b) *Mandatory elements.* A capital plan must contain at least the following elements:


(1) A quarterly assessment of the expected sources and levels of stress test capital over the planning horizon that reflects the covered credit union's financial state, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, and existing level of capital, assuming both expected and unfavorable conditions, including:


(i) Estimates of projected revenues, losses, reserves, and pro forma capital levels, over each quarter of the planning horizon under expected and unfavorable conditions; and


(ii) A detailed description of the credit union's process for assessing capital adequacy;


(2) A discussion of how the credit union will, under expected and unfavorable conditions, maintain stress test capital commensurate with all of its risks, including reputational, strategic, legal, and compliance risks;


(3) A discussion of how the credit union will, under expected and unfavorable conditions, maintain ready access to funding, meet its obligations to all creditors and other counterparties, and continue to serve as an intermediary for its members;


(4) A discussion of any expected changes to the credit union's business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the credit union's capital adequacy and liquidity; and


(5) A program to:


(i) Conduct sensitivity testing to analyze the effect on the credit union's stress test capital of changes in variables, parameters, and inputs used by the credit union in preparing its capital plan;


(ii) Conduct reverse stress testing to identify events and circumstances that cause severely unfavorable outcomes for the credit union; and


(iii) Analyze the impact of credit risk and interest rate risk to capital under unfavorable economic conditions, both separately and in combination with each other.



---

[N] [79 FR 24315, Apr. 30, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 48012, Aug. 11, 2015; 81 FR 7198, Feb. 11, 2016; 83 FR 17910, Apr. 25, 2018]


