# § 10.202   Definitions.

The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 10.201 through 10.207:


(a) *Beneficiary country.* Except as otherwise provided in § 10.206(b), the term “beneficiary country” refers to any country or successor political entity with respect to which there is in effect a proclamation by the President designating such country or successor political entity as a beneficiary country in accordance with section 203 of the ATPA (19 U.S.C. 3202).


(b) *Eligible articles.* The term “eligible” when used with reference to an article means merchandise which is imported directly from a beneficiary country as provided in § 10.204, which meets the country of origin criteria set forth in § 10.205 and the value-content requirement set forth in § 10.206, and which, if the requirements of § 10.207 are met, is therefore entitled to duty-free treatment under the ATPA. However, the following merchandise shall not be considered eligible articles entitled to duty-free treatment under the ATPA:


(1) Textiles and apparel articles which were not eligible articles for purposes of the ATPA on January 1, 1994, as the ATPA was in effect on that date, except as otherwise provided in §§ 10.241 through 10.248;


(2) Rum and tafia classified in subheading 2208.40, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States; 


(3) Sugars, syrups, and sugar-containing products subject to over-quota duty rates under applicable tariff-rate quotas; or 


(4) Tuna prepared or preserved in any manner in airtight containers, except as otherwise provided in §§ 10.251 through 10.257. 


(c) *Entered.* The term “entered” means entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, in the customs territory of the United States.


(d) *Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary country.* The expression “wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary country” has the same meaning as that set forth in § 10.191(b)(3) of this part.



---

[N] [T.D. 98-76, 63 FR 51292, Sept. 25, 1998, as amended by T.D. 03-16, 68 FR 14486, Mar. 25, 2003; 68 FR 67338, Dec. 1, 2003]




