# § 21.250   Overview of employment services.

(a) *General.* Employment services shall be provided if:


(1) Eligibility for employment services exists;


(2) The employment services which are needed have been identified; and


(3) The services which have been identified are incorporated in the veteran's IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) or IEAP (Individualized Employment Assistance Plan).


(b) *Definitions.* (1) The term *program (period) of employment services* includes the counseling, medical, social, and other placement and postplacement services provided to a veteran under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 31 to assist the veteran in obtaining or maintaining suitable employment. The term *program of employment services* is used only if the veteran's eligibility under Chapter 31 is limited to employment services.


(2) The term *job development* means a comprehensive professional service to assist the individual veteran to actually obtain a suitable job, and not simply the solicitation of jobs on behalf of the veteran. Continuing and mutually beneficial relationships with employers should be established by VA staff through referral of suitable employees and supportive services (e.g., adjustment counseling and job modification). Job development activities by VA staff are intended to provide disabled workers with a chance for suitable employment with cooperating employers.


(3) The term *employable* means the veteran is able to secure and maintain employment in the competitive labor market or in a sheltered workshop or other special situation at the minimum wage.


(c) *Determining eligibility for, and the extent of, employment services.* (1) A veteran's eligibility for employment services shall be determined under the provisions of § 21.47;


(2) The duration of the period of employment services is determined under provisions of § 21.73; 


(3) An IEAP (Individualized Employment Assistance Plan) shall be prepared under provisions of § 21.88; 


(4) A veteran shall be placed in and removed from “Employment Assistance Status” under provisions of § 21.194.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984; 50 FR 9622, Mar. 11, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 21216, May 17, 1989]




