# ยง 721.11249   Alkylaminium-trialkyl-2- [(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen- 1-yl)oxy]-, halide (1:1), polymer with alpha-(2-methyl-1-oxo- 2-propen-1-yl)- omega-alkoxypoly(oxy-1,2- alkanediyl) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkylaminium-trialkyl-2- [(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen- 1-yl)oxy]-, halide (1:1), polymer with alpha-(2-methyl-1-oxo- 2-propen-1-yl)- omega-alkoxypoly(oxy-1,2- alkanediyl) (PMN P-17-152) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure. It is a significant new use to manufacture or process the substance as a powder or solid.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, including importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 15957, Mar. 20, 2020]




