# § 422.326   Reporting and returning of overpayments.

(a) *Terminology.* For purposes of this section—


*Applicable reconciliation* occurs on the date of the annual final deadline for risk adjustment data submission described at § 422.310(g), which is announced by CMS each year.


*Funds* means any payment that an MA organization has received that is based on data submitted by the MA organization to CMS for payment purposes, including § 422.308(f) and § 422.310.


*Overpayment* means any funds that an MA organization has received or retained under title XVIII of the Act to which the MA organization, after applicable reconciliation, is not entitled under such title.


(b) *General rule.* If an MA organization has identified that it has received an overpayment, the MA organization must report and return that overpayment in the form and manner set forth in this section.


(c) *Identified overpayment.* The MA organization has identified an overpayment when the MA organization knowingly receives or retains an overpayment. The term “knowingly” has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3729(b)(1)(A).


(d) *Reporting and returning of an overpayment.* An MA organization must report and return any overpayment it received no later than 60 days after the date on which it identified it received an overpayment, unless otherwise directed by CMS for purposes of § 422.311.


(1) *Reporting.* An MA organization must notify CMS, of the amount and reason for the overpayment, using a notification process determined by CMS.


(2) *Returning.* An MA organization must return identified overpayments in a manner specified by CMS.


(e) *Enforcement.* Any overpayment retained by an MA organization is an obligation under 31 U.S.C. 3729(b)(3) if not reported and returned in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Look-back period.* An MA organization must report and return any overpayment identified for the 6 most recent completed payment years.



---

[N] [79 FR 29958, May 23, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 98565, Dec. 9, 2024]




