# § 3174.1   Definitions and acronyms.

(a) As used in this subpart, the term:


*Barrel (bbl)* means 42 standard United States gallons.


*Base pressure* means 14.696 pounds per square inch, absolute (psia).


*Base temperature* means 60 °F.


*Certificate of calibration* means a document stating the base prover volume and other physical data required for the calibration of flow meters.


*Composite meter factor* means a meter factor corrected from normal operating pressure to base pressure. The composite meter factor is determined by proving operations where the pressure is considered constant during the measurement period between provings.


*Configuration log* means the list of constant flow parameters, calculation methods, alarm set points, and other values that are programmed into the flow computer in a CMS.


*Coriolis meter* means a device which by means of the interaction between a flowing fluid and oscillation of tube(s) infers a mass flow rate. The meter also infers the density by measuring the natural frequency of the oscillating tubes. The Coriolis meter consists of sensors and a transmitter, which convert the output from the sensors to signals representing volume and density.


*Coriolis measurement system (CMS)* means a metering system using a Coriolis meter in conjunction with a tertiary device, pressure transducer, and temperature transducer in order to derive and report gross standard oil volume. A CMS system provides real-time, on-line measurement of oil.


*Displacement prover* means a prover consisting of a pipe or pipes with known capacities, a displacement device, and detector switches, which sense when the displacement device has reached the beginning and ending points of the calibrated section of pipe. Displacement provers can be portable or fixed.


*Dynamic meter factor* means a kinetic meter factor derived by linear interpolation or polynomial fit, used for conditions where a series of meter factors have been determined over a range of normal operating conditions.


*Event log* means an electronic record of all exceptions and changes to the flow parameters contained within the configuration log that occur and have an impact on a quantity transaction record.


*Gross standard volume* means a volume of oil corrected to base pressure and temperature.


*Indicated volume* means the uncorrected volume indicated by the meter in a lease automatic custody transfer system or the Coriolis meter in a CMS. For a positive displacement meter, the indicated volume is represented by the non-resettable totalizer on the meter head. For Coriolis meters, the indicated volume is the uncorrected (without the meter factor) mass of liquid divided by the density.


*Innage gauging* means the level of a liquid in a tank measured from the datum plate or tank bottom to the surface of the liquid.


*Lease automatic custody transfer (LACT) system* means a system of components designed to provide for the unattended custody transfer of oil produced from a lease(s), unit PA(s), or CA(s) to the transporting carrier while providing a proper and accurate means for determining the net standard volume and quality, and fail-safe and tamper-proof operations.


*Master meter prover* means a positive displacement meter or Coriolis meter that is selected, maintained, and operated to serve as the reference device for the proving of another meter. A comparison of the master meter to the Facility Measurement Point (FMP) line meter output is the basis of the master-meter method.


*Meter factor* means a ratio obtained by dividing the measured volume of liquid that passed through a prover or master meter during the proving by the measured volume of liquid that passed through the line meter during the proving, corrected to base pressure and temperature.


*Net standard volume* means the gross standard volume corrected for quantities of non-merchantable substances such as sediment and water.


*Outage gauging* means the distance from the surface of the liquid in a tank to the reference gauge point of the tank.


*Positive displacement meter* means a meter that registers the volume passing through the meter using a system which constantly and mechanically isolates the flowing liquid into segments of known volume.


*Quantity transaction record (QTR)* means a report generated by CMS equipment that summarizes the daily and hourly gross standard volume calculated by the flow computer and the average or totals of the dynamic data that is used in the calculation of gross standard volume.


*Tertiary device* means, for a CMS, the flow computer and associated memory, calculation, and display functions.


*Transducer* means an electronic device that converts a physical property, such as pressure, temperature, or electrical resistance, into an electrical output signal that varies proportionally with the magnitude of the physical property. Typical output signals are in the form of electrical potential (volts), current (milliamps), or digital pressure or temperature readings. The term transducer includes devices commonly referred to as transmitters.


*Vapor tight* means capable of holding pressure differential only slightly higher than that of installed pressure-relieving or vapor recovery devices.


(b) As used in this subpart, the following acronyms carry the meaning prescribed:


*API* means American Petroleum Institute.


*CA* has the meaning set forth in § 3170.3 of this part.


*COA* has the meaning set forth in § 3170.3 of this part.


*CPL* means correction for the effect of pressure on a liquid.


*CTL* means correction for the effect of temperature on a liquid.


*NIST* means National Institute of Standards and Technology.


*PA* has the meaning set forth in § 3170.3 of this part.


*PMT* means Production Measurement Team.


*PSIA* means pounds per square inch, absolute.


*S&W* means sediment and water.




