# ยง 279.56   Tracking.

(a) *Acceptance.* Used oil processors/re-refiners must keep a record of each used oil shipment accepted for processing/re-refining. These records may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading or other shipping documents. Records for each shipment must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the transporter who delivered the used oil to the processor/re-refiner;


(2) The name and address of the generator or processor/re-refiner from whom the used oil was sent for processing/re-refining;


(3) The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivered the used oil to the processor/re-refiner;


(4) The EPA identification number (if applicable) of the generator or processor/re-refiner from whom the used oil was sent for processing/re-refining;


(5) The quantity of used oil accepted; and


(6) The date of acceptance.


(b) *Delivery.* Used oil processor/re-refiners must keep a record of each shipment of used oil that is shipped to a used oil burner, processor/ re-refiner, or disposal facility. These records may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading or other shipping documents. Records for each shipment must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner, processor/re-refiner or disposal facility;


(2) The name and address of the burner, processor/re-refiner or disposal facility who will receive the used oil;


(3) The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner, processor/re-refiner or disposal facility;


(4) The EPA identification number of the burner, processor/re-refiner, or disposal facility who will receive the used oil;


(5) The quantity of used oil shipped; and


(6) The date of shipment.


(c) *Record retention.* The records described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be maintained for at least three years.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 71 FR 40280, July 14, 2006]




