# § 25.110   Filing of applications, fees, and number of copies.

(a) *Filing.* Applications may be filed by going online at *https://www.fcc.gov/icfs* and submitting the application through the International Communications Filing System (ICFS).








(b) *Submitting your application.* (1) All earth station license applications must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312 in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, applications for space station licenses must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312 in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter and include all information required by § 25.114.


(b)(3) A license application for 17/24 GHz BSS space station operation, for GSO FSS space station operation, or for GSO space station operation subject to the provisions in Appendices 30 and 30A of the ITU Radio Regulations (incorporated by reference, see § 25.108) may be submitted in two steps, as follows:


(i) An application for 17/24 GHz BSS space station operation or for GSO FSS space station operation not subject to the provisions in Appendix 30B of the ITU Radio Regulations (incorporated by reference, *see* § 25.108) may be initiated by filing with the Commission, in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter, a draft Coordination Request and simplified Form 312 for the proposed operation and a declaration of acceptance of ITU cost-recovery responsibility in accordance with § 25.111(d). The simplified Form 312, Main Form submission must include the information required by items 1-17, 43, 45, and 46.


(ii) An application for GSO FSS space station operation subject to the provisions in Appendix 30B of the ITU Radio Regulations (incorporated by reference, *see* § 25.108) may be initiated by submitting to the Commission, in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter, a draft ITU filing to convert an allotment into an assignment, to introduce an additional system, or to modify an assignment in the Appendix 30B List accompanied by a simplified Form 312 and a declaration of acceptance of ITU cost-recovery responsibility in accordance with § 25.111(d). The simplified Form 312, Main Form submission must include the information required by items 1-17, 43, 45, and 46. In addition, the applicant must submit the results of an analysis demonstrating that no U.S. filing under Appendix 30B would be deemed affected by the proposed operation under the relevant ITU criteria or, for any affected filings, a letter signed by the affected operator that it consents to the new filing.


(iii) An application for GSO space station operation subject to the provisions in Appendices 30 and 30A of the ITU Radio Regulations (incorporated by reference, see § 25.108) may be initiated by submitting to the Commission, in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter, a draft ITU filing to: modify an existing frequency assignment in the Region 2 Plan; to include a new frequency assignment in the Region 2 Plan; or to include a new or modified frequency assignment in the List of the Regions 1 and 3 Plan, accompanied by a simplified Form 312 and a declaration of acceptance of ITU cost-recovery responsibility in accordance with § 25.111(d). The simplified Form 312, Main Form submission must include the information required by items 1-17, 43, 45, and 46. In addition, the applicant must submit the results of an analysis demonstrating that no U.S. filing under Appendix 30 and 30A would be deemed affected by the proposed operation under the relevant ITU criteria or, for any affected filings, a letter signed by the affected operator that it consents to the new filing.


(iv) An application initiated pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section will be considered completed by the filing of an FCC Form 312 and the remaining information required in a complete license application, including the information required by § 25.114, within two years of the date of submission of the initial application materials.


(c) All correspondence concerning any application must identify:


(1) The applicant's name,


(2) The call sign of the space station or earth station, and


(3) The file number of the application.




(d) *Copies.* Applications must be filed electronically though ICFS. The Commission will not accept any paper version of any application.








(e) *Signing.* Upon filing an application electronically, the applicant must print out the filed application, obtain the proper signatures, and keep the original in its files.


(f) An applicant must pay the appropriate filing fee in accordance with part 1, subpart G of this chapter, at the time when it files a FCC Form 312.



---

[N] [69 FR 47793, Aug. 6, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 8420, Feb. 6, 2013; 81 FR 55325, Aug. 18, 2016; 86 FR 49488, Sept. 3, 2021; 88 FR 21440, Apr. 10, 2023]




