# § 98.468   Definitions.

Except as provided below, all terms used in this subpart have the same meaning given in the CAA and subpart A of this part.


*Construction and demolition (C&D) waste landfill* means a solid waste disposal facility subject to the requirements of subparts A or B of part 257 of this chapter that receives construction and demolition waste and does not receive hazardous waste (defined in § 261.3 of this chapter) or industrial solid waste (defined in § 258.2 of this chapter) or municipal solid waste (defined in § 98.6 of this part) other than residential lead-based paint waste. A C&D waste landfill typically receives any one or more of the following types of solid wastes: roadwork material, excavated material, demolition waste, construction/renovation waste, and site clearance waste.


*Design capacity* means the maximum amount of solid waste a landfill can accept. For the purposes of this subpart, for landfills that have a permit, the *design capacity* can be determined in terms of volume or mass in the most recent permit issued by the state, local, or Tribal agency responsible for regulating the landfill, plus any in-place waste not accounted for in the most recent permit. If the owner or operator chooses to convert the design capacity from volume to mass to determine its design capacity, the calculation must include a site-specific density. If the design capacity is within 10 percent of the applicability threshold in § 98.460(a) and there is a change in the production process that can reasonably be expected to change the site-specific waste density, the site-specific waste density must be redetermined and the design capacity must be recalculated based on the new waste density.


*Industrial sludge* means the residual, semi-solid material left from industrial wastewater treatment processes or wet air pollution control devices (e.g., wet scrubbers). *Industrial sludge* includes underflow material collected in primary or secondary clarifiers, settling basins, or precipitation tanks as well as dredged materials from wastewater tanks or impoundments. *Industrial sludge* also includes the semi-solid materials remaining after these materials are dewatered via a belt process, centrifuge, or similar dewatering process.


*Solid waste* has the meaning established by the Administrator pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C.A. 6901 *et seq.*).


*Waste stream* means industrial solid waste material that is generated by a specific manufacturing process or client. For wastes generated at the facility that includes the industrial waste landfill, a waste stream is the industrial solid waste material generated by a specific processing unit at that facility. For industrial solid wastes that are received from off-site facilities, a waste stream can be defined as each waste shipment or group of waste shipments received from a single client or group of clients that produce industrial solid wastes with similar waste properties.



---

[N] [75 FR 39773, July 12, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73910, Nov. 29, 2011; 78 FR 71980, Nov. 29, 2013]





