# § 361.1   Definitions.

Terms used in the singular form in this part shall be construed as the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this part, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any other individual to whom the Administrator delegates authority to act in his or her stead.


*Agricultural seed.* The following kinds and varieties of grass, forage, and field crop seed that are used for seeding purposes in the United States: 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service* (*APHIS*). The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*APHIS inspector.* Any employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any other individual authorized by the Administrator to enforce this part.


*Coated Seed.* Any seed unit covered with any substance that changes the size, shape, or weight of the original seed. Seeds coated with ingredients such as, but not limited to, rhizobia, dyes, and pesticides are excluded.


*Declaration.* A written statement of a grower, shipper, processor, dealer, or importer giving for any lot of seed the kind, variety, type, origin, or the use for which the seed is intended.


*Hybrid.* When applied to kinds or varieties of seed means the first generation seed of a cross produced by controlling the pollination and by combining two or more inbred lines; one inbred or a single cross with an open-pollinated variety; or two selected clones, seed lines, varieties, or species. “Controlling the pollination” means to use a method of hybridization that will produce pure seed that is at least 75 percent hybrid seed. Hybrid designations shall be treated as variety names.


*Import/importation.* To bring into the territorial limits of the United States.


*Kind.* One or more related species or subspecies that singly or collectively is known by one common name, e.g., soybean, flax, or carrot.


*Lot of seed.* A definite quantity of seed identified by a lot number, every portion or bag of which is uniform, within permitted tolerances, for the factors that appear in the labeling.


*Mixture.* Seeds consisting of more than one kind or variety, each present in excess of 5 percent of the whole.


*Official seed laboratory.* An official laboratory member of the Association of Official Seed Analysts.


*Pelleted seed.* Any seed unit covered with a substance that changes the size, shape, or weight of the original seed in order to improve the plantability or singulation of the seed.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, receiver, trustee, or other legal entity or organized group.


*Port of first arrival.* The land area (such as a seaport, airport, or land border station) where a person, or a land, water, or air vehicle, first arrives after entering the territorial limits of the United States, and where inspection of articles is carried out by APHIS inspectors.


*Registered seed technologist.* A registered member of the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists.


*Screenings.* Chaff, sterile florets, immature seed, weed seed, inert matter, and any other materials removed in any way from any seeds in any kind of cleaning or processing and which contains less than 25 percent of live agricultural or vegetable seeds.


*State.* Any State, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.


*United States.* All of the States.


*Variety.* A subdivision of a kind which is characterized by growth, plant, fruit, seed, or other characteristics by which it can be differentiated from other sorts of the same kind.


*Vegetable seed.* The seed of the following kinds and varieties that are or may be grown in gardens or on truck farms and are or may be generally known and sold under the name of vegetable seed:


