# § 164.33   Charts and publications.

(a) Each vessel must have the following:


(1) Marine charts of the area to be transited, published by the National Ocean Service, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, or a river authority that—


(i) Are of a large enough scale and have enough detail to make safe navigation of the area possible; and


(ii) Are currently corrected.


(2) For the area to be transited, a currently corrected copy of, or applicable currently corrected extract from, each of the following publications:


(i) U.S. Coast Pilot.


(ii) Coast Guard Light List.


(3) For the area to be transited, the current edition of, or applicable current extract from:


(i) Tide tables published by private entities using data provided by the National Ocean Service.


(ii) Tidal current tables published by private entities using data provided by the National Ocean Service or river current publication issued by a river authority.


(b) As an alternative to the requirements for paragraph (a) of this section, a marine chart or publication, or applicable extract, published by a foreign government may be substituted for a U.S. chart and publication required by this section. The chart must be of large enough scale and have enough detail to make safe navigation of the area possible, and must be currently corrected. The publication, or applicable extract, must singly or in combination contain similar information to the U.S. Government publication to make safe navigation of the area possible. The publication, or applicable extract must be currently corrected, with the exceptions of tide and tidal current tables, which must be the current editions.


(c) As used in this section, “currently corrected” means corrected with changes contained in all Notices to Mariners published by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, or an equivalent foreign government publication, reasonably available to the vessel, and that is applicable to the vessel's transit.



---

[N] [CGD 82-055, 48 FR 44535, Sept. 29, 1983, as amended by USCG-2001-9286, 66 FR 33641, June 25, 2001; USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44282, July 27, 2015; USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35088, July 28, 2017]




