# § 1211.13   Inherent force activated secondary door sensors.

(a) *General.* (1) A force activated door sensor of a door system installed according to the installation instructions shall actuate in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, which are to be conducted in sequence on a single system sample, except for the separate test sequences of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The system shall actuate with the maximum and minimum specifications of the door, operator, and hardware.


(3) Tests conducted per paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be performed with the force exerted by a drive adjusted to its highest value if the force can be adjusted by the user during use or user maintenance.


(4) The test cylinder referred to in paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall be a 1
7/8 in (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed under the door so that the axis is perpendicular to the plane of the door. See figure 6A to subpart A.


(5) The measuring device referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall:


(i) Have an accuracy of ±1%;


(ii) Have a rise and fall time not exceeding 5 ms;


(iii) Have the equivalence of a spring constant of 2855 lb/in ±285 lb/in (500 N/mm, ±50 N/mm);


(iv) Be placed on a rigid, level surface; and


(v) Have a rigid plate with a diameter of 3.1 in (80 mm).


(vi) See paragraph (a)(6) of this section for test equipment alternatives for force measurements at 1 ft (305 mm) or greater for the tests conducted per paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.


(6) With regard to the alternative test equipment referred to in paragraph (a)(5)(vi) of this section, the test device described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section for force measurements at 1 foot (305 mm) or greater shall be:


(i) A spring constant means such as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section;


(ii) A gravity based weight displacing means that suspends a weight off its supporting surface upon exceeding 15 lbf (67 N) such as the example shown in figures 8 through 10 of this subpart if the equipment described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section is applied before the tests specified in paragraph (c) of this section and after the tests specified in paragraph (d) of this section at the 1 ft (305 mm) height specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section; or


(iii) The equivalent requirements of paragraphs (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(7) The cycles specified in paragraph (d) of this section are not required to be consecutive. Continuous operation of the motor without cooling is not required.


(b) *Closing force test.* (1) The door shall stop and reverse within 2 seconds after contacting the obstruction. The door shall apply the following forces at the locations noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this section:


(i) 90 lbf (400 N) or less average during the first 0.75 seconds after 15 lbf (67 N) is exceeded from initial impact; and


(ii) 15 lbf (67 N) or less from 0.75 seconds after 15 lbf (67 N) is exceeded from initial impact until the door reverses.


(2) The test referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be conducted at the following test height and locations along the edge of the door:


(i) The center point, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor;


(ii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the end of the door, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor; and


(iii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the other end of the door, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor.


(3) The maximum force specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be tested by the door applying a force against the longitudinal edge of the test cylinder described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(4) The equipment used to measure force for the test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(5) The door shall stop and reverse within 2 seconds after contacting the obstruction. The door shall apply a load of 15 lbf (67 N) or less in the closing direction along the path of door travel at the locations noted in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(6) The test described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be conducted at the following points along the edge of the door:


(i) At the center at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft (305 mm, 914 mm and 1.52 m) from the floor;


(ii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the end of the door, at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft from the floor; and


(iii) Within 1 ft of the other end of the door at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft from the floor.


(7) The maximum force described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be tested by the door applying a force against the longitudinal edge of the test cylinder as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(8) The equipment used to measure forces for the test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) or (6) of this section.


(c) *Opening force test.* (1) The door shall stop within 2 seconds after a weight of 44 lb (20 kg) is applied to the door.


(2) The test described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be conducted with the door starting from the fully closed position and at heights of approximately 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft (305 mm, 914 mm and 1.52 m) from the floor.


(3) Test weight(s) shall be applied to sections of the door that are vertical in the initial stopped position for each test height prior to operator activation.


(d) *Fifty cycle test.* (1) With the door(s) at the test point(s) determined by the tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to be most severe with respect to both reversal time and force, the door system shall function as intended after 50 cycles of operation. After the last cycle, the system shall complete one additional cycle of opening the door to its fully open condition and closing the door to its fully closed position.


(2) The tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be repeated upon completion of cycling test.


(e) *Adjustment of door weight.* At the point determined by the test described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section to be the most severe, weight is to be added to the door in 5.0 pound (2.26 Kg) increments and the tests of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are to be repeated until a total of 15.0 pounds (66.72 N) has been added to the door. Before performing each test cycle, the door is to be cycled 2 times to update the profile. Similarly, starting from normal weight plus 15.0 pounds, the tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are to be repeated by subtracting weight in 5.0 pound increments until a total of 15.0 pounds has been subtracted from the door.


(f) *Obstruction test.* For a door traveling in the downward direction, when an inherent secondary entrapment protection device senses an obstruction and initiates a reversal, any control activation shall not move the door downward until the operator reverses the door a minimum of 2 inches (50.8 mm). The test is to be performed as described in § 1211.7(b)(3)(iii). The system may be initially manually re-profiled for the purpose of this test.



---

[N] [81 FR 20233, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32570, July 13, 2018]




