# § 1355.44   Out-of-home care data file elements.

(a) *General information*—(1) *Title IV-E agency.* Indicate the title IV-E agency responsible for submitting the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS) data in a format according to ACF's specifications.


(2) *Report date.* The report date corresponds with the end of the report period. Indicate the last month and the year of the report period.


(3) *Local agency.* Indicate the local county, jurisdiction, or equivalent unit that has primary responsibility for the child in a format according to ACF's specifications.


(4) *Child record number.* Indicate the child's record number. This is an encrypted, unique person identification number that is the same for the child, no matter where the child lives while in the placement and care responsibility of the title IV-E agency in out-of-home care and across all report periods and episodes. The title IV-E agency must apply and retain the same encryption routine or method for the person identification number across all report periods. The record number must be encrypted in accordance with ACF standards.


(b) *Child information*—(1) *Child's date of birth.* Indicate the month, day and year of the child's birth. If the actual date of birth is unknown because the child has been abandoned, provide an estimated date of birth. “Abandoned” means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.”


(2) *Child's sex.* Indicate whether the child is “male” or “female.”


(3) *Reason to know a child is an “Indian Child” as defined in the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA).* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the state title IV-E agency made inquiries whether the child is an Indian child as defined in ICWA. Indicate “yes” or “no.”


(4) *Child's tribal membership.* For state title IV-E agencies only:


(i) Indicate whether the child is a member of or eligible for membership in a federally recognized Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “unknown”.


(ii) If the state title IV-E agency indicated “yes” in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, indicate all federally recognized Indian tribe(s) that may potentially be the Indian child's tribe(s). The title IV-E agency must submit the information in a format according to ACF's specifications.


(5) *Application of ICWA.* For state title IV-E agencies only:


(i) Indicate whether ICWA applies for the child. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “unknown”.


(ii) If the state title IV-E agency indicated “yes” in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, indicate the date that the state title IV-E agency was notified by the Indian tribe or state or tribal court that ICWA applies.


(6) *Notification.* For state title IV-E agencies only: If the state title IV-E agency indicated “yes” to paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, the state title IV-E agency must indicate whether the Indian child's tribe(s) was sent legal notice in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1912(a). Indicate “yes” or “no.”


(7) *Child's race.* In general, a child's race is determined by the child, the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate whether each race category listed in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (viii) of this section applies with a “yes” or “no.”


(i) *Race—American Indian or Alaska Native.* An American Indian or Alaska Native child has origins in any of the original peoples of North or South America (including Central America), and maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment.


(ii) *Race—Asian.* An Asian child has origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand and Vietnam.


(iii) *Race—Black or African American.* A Black or African American child has origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(iv) *Race—Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.* A Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander child has origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa or other Pacific Islands.


(v) *Race—White.* A white child has origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa.


(vi) *Race—unknown.* The child or parent or legal guardian does not know, or is unable to communicate the race, or at least one race of the child. This category does not apply when the child has been abandoned or the parents failed to return and the identity of the child, parent(s), or legal guardian(s) is known.


(vii) *Race—abandoned.* The child's race is unknown because the child has been abandoned. “Abandoned” means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.”


(viii) *Race—declined.* The child or parent(s) or legal guardian(s) has declined to identify a race.


(8) *Child's Hispanic or Latino ethnicity.* In general, a child's ethnicity is determined by the child or the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s). A child is of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity if the child is a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Indicate whether this category applies with a “yes” or “no.” If the child or the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) does not know or is unable to communicate whether the child is of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity, indicate “unknown.” If the child is abandoned indicate “abandoned.” Abandoned means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.” If the child or the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) refuses to identify the child's ethnicity, indicate “declined.”


(9) *Health assessment.* Indicate whether the child had a health assessment during the current out-of-home care episode. This assessment could include an initial health screening or any follow-up health screening pursuant to section 422(b)(15)(A) of the Act. Indicate “yes” or “no.”


(10) *Health, behavioral or mental health conditions.* Indicate whether the child was diagnosed by a qualified professional, as defined by the state or tribe, as having a health, behavioral or mental health condition, prior to or during the child's current out-of-home care episode as of the last day of the report period. Indicate “child has a diagnosed condition” if a qualified professional has made such a diagnosis and for each paragraph (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section, indicate “existing condition,” “previous condition” or “does not apply,” as applicable. “Previous condition” means a previous diagnoses that no longer exists as a current condition. Indicate “no exam or assessment conducted” if a qualified professional has not conducted a medical exam or assessment of the child and leave paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section blank. Indicate “exam or assessment conducted and none of the conditions apply” if a qualified professional has conducted a medical exam or assessment and has concluded that the child does not have one of the conditions listed and leave paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section blank. Indicate “exam or assessment conducted but results not received” if a qualified professional has conducted a medical exam or assessment but the title IV-E agency has not yet received the results of such an exam or assessment and leave paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section blank.


(i) *Intellectual disability.* The child has, or had previously, significantly sub-average general cognitive and motor functioning existing concurrently with deficits in adaptive behavior manifested during the developmental period that adversely affect the child's socialization and learning.


(ii) *Autism spectrum disorder.* The child has, or had previously, a neurodevelopment disorder, characterized by social impairments, communication difficulties, and restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of behavior. This includes the range of disorders from autistic disorder, sometimes called autism or classical autism spectrum disorder, to milder forms known as Asperger syndrome and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified.


(iii) *Visual impairment and blindness.* The child has, or had previously, a visual impairment that may adversely affect the day-to-day functioning or educational performance, such as blindness, amblyopia, or color blindness.


(iv) *Hearing impairment and deafness.* The child has, or had previously, an impairment in hearing, whether permanent or fluctuating, that adversely affects the child's day-to-day functioning and educational performance.


(v) *Orthopedic impairment or other physical condition.* The child has, or had previously, a physical deformity, such as amputations and fractures or burns that cause contractures, or an orthopedic impairment, including impairments caused by a congenital anomalies or disease, such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, multiple sclerosis, or muscular dystrophy.


(vi) *Mental/emotional disorders.* The child has, or had previously, one or more mood or personality disorders or conditions over a long period of time and to a marked degree, such as conduct disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, emotional disturbance, anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or eating disorder.


(vii) *Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.* The child has, or had previously, a diagnosis of the neurobehavioral disorders of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or attention deficit disorder (ADD).


(viii) *Serious mental disorders.* The child has, or had previously, a diagnosis of a serious mental disorder or illness, such as bipolar disorder, depression, psychotic disorders, or schizophrenia.


(ix) *Developmental delay.* The child has been assessed by appropriate diagnostic instruments and procedures and is experiencing delays in one or more of the following areas: Physical development or motor skills, cognitive development, communication, language, or speech development, social or emotional development, or adaptive development.


(x) *Developmental disability.* The child has, or had previously been diagnosed with a developmental disability as defined in the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (Pub. L. 106-402), section 102(8). This means a severe, chronic disability of an individual that is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments that manifests before the age of 22, is likely to continue indefinitely and results in substantial functional limitations in three or more areas of major life activity. Areas of major life activity include self-care, receptive and expressive language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living, economic self-sufficiency, and reflects the individual's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic services, individualized supports or other forms of assistance that are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated. If a child is given the diagnosis of “developmental disability,” do not indicate the individual conditions that form the basis of this diagnosis separately in other data elements.


(xi) *Other diagnosed condition.* The child has, or had previously, a diagnosed condition or other health impairment other than those described in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (x) of this section, which requires special medical care, such as asthma, diabetes, chronic illnesses, a diagnosis as HIV positive or AIDS, epilepsy, traumatic brain injury, other neurological disorders, speech/language impairment, learning disability, or substance use issues.


(11) *School enrollment.* Indicate whether the child is a full-time student at, and enrolled in (or in the process of enrolling in), “elementary” or “secondary” education, or is a full or part-time student at and enrolled in a “post-secondary education or training” or “college,” as of the earlier of the last day of the report period or the day of exit for a child exiting out-of-home care prior to the end of the report period. A child is still considered enrolled in school if the child would otherwise be enrolled in a school that is currently out of session. An “elementary or secondary school student” is defined in section 471(a)(30) of the Act as a child that is enrolled (or in the process of enrolling) in an institution which provides elementary or secondary education, as determined under the law of the state or other jurisdiction in which the institution is located, instructed in elementary or secondary education at home in accordance with a home school law of the state or other jurisdiction in which the home is located, in an independent study elementary or secondary education program in accordance with the law of the state or other jurisdiction in which the program is located, which is administered by the local school or school district, or incapable of attending school on a full-time basis due to the medical condition of the child, which incapability is supported by a regularly updated information in the case plan of the child. Enrollment in “post-secondary education or training” refers to full or part-time enrollment in any post-secondary education or training, other than an education pursued at a college or university. Enrollment in “college” refers to a child that is enrolled full or part-time at a college or university. If child has not reached compulsory school age, indicate “not school-age.” If the child has reached compulsory school-age, but is not enrolled or is in the process of enrolling in any school setting full-time, indicate “not enrolled.”


(12) *Educational level.* Indicate the highest educational level from kindergarten to college or post-secondary education/training completed by the child as of the last day of the report period. If child has not reached compulsory school-age, indicate “not school-age.” Indicate “kindergarten” if the child is currently in or about to begin 1st grade. Indicate “1st grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 2nd grade. Indicate “2nd grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 3rd grade. Indicate “3rd grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 4th grade. Indicate “4th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 5th grade. Indicate “5th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 6th grade. Indicate “6th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 7th grade. Indicate “7th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 8th grade. Indicate “8th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 9th grade. Indicate “9th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 10th grade. Indicate “10th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 11th grade. Indicate “11th grade” if the child is currently in or about to begin 12th grade. Indicate “12th grade” if the child has graduated from high school. Indicate “GED” if the child has completed a general equivalency degree or other high school equivalent. Indicate “Post-secondary education or training” if the child has completed any post-secondary education or training, including vocational training, other than an education pursued at a college or university. Indicate “College” if the child has completed at least a semester of study at a college or university.


(13) *Pregnant or parenting.* (i) Indicate whether the child is pregnant as of the end of the report period. Indicate “yes” or “no.”


(ii) Indicate whether the child has ever fathered or bore a child. Indicate “yes” or “no.”


(iii) Indicate whether the child and his/her child(ren) are placed together at any point during the report period, if the response in paragraph (b)(13)(ii) of this section is “yes.” Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “not applicable” if the response in paragraph (b)(13)(ii) of this section is “no.”


(14) *Special education.* Indicate whether the child has an Individualized Education Program (IEP) as defined in section 614(d)(1) of Part B of Title I of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and implementing regulations, or an Individualized Family Service Program (IFSP) as defined in section 636 of Part C of Title I of IDEA and implementing regulations, as of the end of the report period. Indicate “yes” if the child has either an IEP or an IFSP or “no” if the child has neither.


(15) *Prior adoption.* Indicate whether the child experienced a prior legal adoption before the current out-of-home care episode. Include any public, private or independent adoption in the United States or adoption in another country and tribal customary adoptions. Indicate “yes,” “no” or “abandoned” if the information is unknown because the child has been abandoned. “Abandoned” means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.” If the child has experienced a prior legal adoption, the title IV-E agency must complete paragraphs (b)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave those paragraphs blank.


(i) *Prior adoption date.* Indicate the month and year that the most recent prior adoption was finalized. In the case of a prior intercountry adoption where the adoptive parent(s) readopted the child in the United States, the title IV-E agency must provide the date of the adoption (either the original adoption in the home country or the re-adoption in the United States) that is considered final in accordance with applicable laws.


(ii) *Prior adoption intercountry.* Indicate whether the child's most recent prior adoption was an intercountry adoption, meaning that the child's prior adoption occurred in another country or the child was brought into the United States for the purposes of finalizing the prior adoption. Indicate “yes” or “no.”


(16) *Prior guardianship general*—(i) *Prior guardianship.* Indicate whether the child experienced a prior legal guardianship before the current out-of-home care episode. Include any public, private or independent guardianship(s) in the United States that meets the definition in section 475(7) of the Act. This includes any judicially created relationship between a child and caretaker which is intended to be permanent and self-sustaining, as evidenced by the transfer to the caretaker of the following parental rights with respect to the child: Protection, education, care and control, custody, and decision making. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “abandoned” if the information is unknown because the child has been abandoned. “Abandoned” means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.” If the child has experienced a prior legal guardianship, the title IV-E agency must complete paragraph (b)(16)(ii) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave it blank.


(ii) *Prior guardianship date.* Indicate the month and year that the most recent prior guardianship became legalized.


(17) *Child financial and medical assistance.* Indicate whether the child received financial and medical assistance at any point during the six-month report period. Indicate “child has received support/assistance” if the child was the recipient of such assistance during the report period, and indicate which of the following sources of support described in paragraphs (b)(17)(i) through (viii) of this section “applies” or “does not apply.” Indicate “no support/assistance received” if none of these apply.


(i) *State/Tribal adoption assistance.* The child is receiving an adoption subsidy or other adoption assistance paid for solely by the state or Indian tribe.


(ii) *State/Tribal foster care.* The child is receiving a foster care payment that is solely funded by the state or Indian tribe.


(iii) *Title IV-E adoption subsidy.* The child is determined eligible for a title IV-E adoption assistance subsidy.


(iv) *Title IV-E guardianship assistance.* The child is determined eligible for a title IV-E guardianship assistance subsidy.


(v) *Title IV-A TANF.* The child is living with relatives who are receiving a Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) cash assistance payment on behalf of the child.


(vi) *Title IV-B.* The child's living arrangement is supported by funds under title IV-B of the Act.


(vii) *Chafee Program.* The child is living independently and is supported by funds under the John H. Chafee Foster Care Program for Successful Transition to Adulthood.


(viii) *Other.* The child is receiving financial support from another source not previously listed in paragraphs (b)(17)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(18) *Title IV-E foster care during report period.* Indicate whether a title IV-E foster care maintenance payment was paid on behalf of the child at any point during the report period that is claimed under title IV-E foster care with a “yes” or “no,” as appropriate. Indicate “yes” if the child has met all eligibility requirements of section 472(a) of the Act and the title IV-E agency has claimed, or intends to claim, Federal reimbursement for foster care maintenance payments made on the child's behalf during the report period.


(19) *Total number of siblings.* Indicate the total number of siblings of the child. A sibling to the child is his or her brother or sister by biological, legal, or marital connection. Do not include the child who is subject of this record in the total number. If the child does not have any siblings, the title IV-E agency must indicate “0.” If the title IV-E agency indicates “0,” the title IV-E agency must leave paragraphs (b)(20) and (21) of this section blank.


(20) *Siblings in foster care.* Indicate the number of siblings of the child who are in foster care, as defined in § 1355.20. A sibling to the child is his or her brother or sister by biological, legal, or marital connection. Do not include the child who is subject of this record in the total number. If the child does not have any siblings, the title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (b)(20) blank. If the child has siblings, but they are not in foster care as defined in § 1355.20, the title IV-E agency must indicate “0.” If the title IV-E agency reported “0,” leave paragraph (b)(21) of this section blank.


(21) *Siblings in living arrangement.* Indicate the number of siblings of the child who are in the same living arrangement as the child, on the last day of the report period. A sibling to the child is his or her brother or sister by biological, legal, or marital connection. Do not include the child who is subject of this record in the total number. If the child does not have any siblings, the title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (b)(21) blank. If the child has siblings, but they are not in the same living arrangement as the child, the title IV-E agency must indicate “0.”


(c) *Parent or legal guardian information*—(1) *Year of birth of first parent or legal guardian.* If applicable, indicate the year of birth of the first parent (biological, legal or adoptive) or legal guardian of the child. To the extent that a child has both a parent and a legal guardian, or two different sets of legal parents, the title IV-E agency must report on those who had legal responsibility for the child. We are not seeking information on putative parent(s) in this paragraph (c)(1). If there is only one parent or legal guardian of the child, that person's year of birth must be reported here. If the child was abandoned indicate “abandoned.” “Abandoned” means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.”


(2) *Year of birth of second parent or legal guardian.* If applicable, indicate the year of birth of the second parent (biological, legal or adoptive) or legal guardian of the child. We are not seeking information on putative parent(s) in this paragraph (c)(2). If the child was abandoned, indicate “abandoned.” “Abandoned” means that the child was left alone or with others and the identity of the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This includes a child left at a “safe haven.” Indicate “not applicable” if there is not another parent or legal guardian.


(3) *Tribal membership mother.* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the biological or adoptive mother is a member of an Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “unknown.”


(4) *Tribal membership father.* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the biological or adoptive father is a member of an Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “unknown.”


(5) *Termination/modification of parental rights.* Indicate whether the termination/modification of parental rights for each parent (biological, legal and/or putative) was voluntary or involuntary. “Voluntary” means the parent voluntarily relinquished their parental rights to the title IV-E agency, with or without court involvement. Indicate “voluntary” or “involuntary.” Indicate “not applicable” if there was no termination/modification and leave paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section blank.


(i) *Termination/modification of parental rights petition.* Indicate the month, day and year that each petition to terminate/modify the parental rights of a biological, legal and/or putative parent was filed in court, if applicable. Indicate “deceased” if the parent is deceased. If a petition has not been filed, leave this paragraph (c)(5)(i) blank.


(ii) *Termination/modification of parental rights.* Enter the month, day and year that the parental rights were voluntarily or involuntarily terminated/modified, for each biological, legal and/or putative parent, if applicable. If the parent is deceased, enter the date of death.


(d) *Removal information*—(1) *Date of child's removal.* Indicate the removal date(s) in month, day and year format for each removal of a child who enters the placement and care responsibility of the title IV-E agency. For a child who is removed and is placed initially in foster care, indicate the date that the title IV-E agency received placement and care responsibility. For a child who ran away or whose whereabouts are unknown at the time the child is removed and is placed in the placement and care responsibility of the title IV-E agency, indicate the date that the title IV-E agency received placement and care responsibility. For a child who is removed and is placed initially in a non-foster care setting, indicate the date that the child enters foster care as the date of removal.


(2) *Removal transaction date.* A non-modifiable, computer-generated date which accurately indicates the month, day and year each response to paragraph (d)(1) of this section was entered into the information system.


(3) *Environment at removal.* Indicate the type of environment (household or facility) the child was living in at the time of each removal for each removal reported in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Indicate “parent household” if the child was living in a household that included one or both of the child's parents, whether biological, adoptive or legal. Indicate “relative household” if the child was living with a relative(s), the relative(s) is not the child's legal guardian and neither of the child's parents were living in the household. Indicate “legal guardian household” if the child was living with a legal guardian(s), the guardian(s) is not the child's relative and neither of the child's parents were living in the household. Indicate “relative legal guardian household” if the child was living with a relative(s) who is also the child's legal guardian. Indicate “justice facility” if the child was in a detention center, jail or other similar setting where the child was detained. Indicate “medical/mental health facility” if the child was living in a facility such as a medical or psychiatric hospital or residential treatment center. Indicate “other” if the child was living in another situation not so described, such as living independently or homeless.


(4) *Child and family circumstances at removal.* Indicate all child and family circumstances that were present at the time of the child's removal and/or related to the child being placed into foster care for each removal reported in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Indicate whether each circumstance described in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (xxxiv) of this section “applies” or “does not apply” for each removal indicated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(i) *Runaway.* The child has left, without authorization, the home or facility where the child was residing.


(ii) *Whereabouts unknown.* The child's whereabouts are unknown and the title IV-E agency does not consider the child to have run away.


(iii) *Physical abuse.* Alleged or substantiated physical abuse, injury or maltreatment of the child by a person responsible for the child's welfare.


(iv) *Sexual abuse.* Alleged or substantiated sexual abuse or exploitation of the child by a person who is responsible for the child's welfare.


(v) *Psychological or emotional abuse.* Alleged or substantiated psychological or emotional abuse, including verbal abuse, of the child by a person who is responsible for the child's welfare.


(vi) *Neglect.* Alleged or substantiated negligent treatment or maltreatment of the child, including failure to provide adequate food, clothing, shelter, supervision or care by a person who is responsible for the child's welfare.


(vii) *Medical neglect.* Alleged or substantiated medical neglect caused by a failure to provide for the appropriate health care of the child by a person who is responsible for the child's welfare, although the person was financially able to do so, or was offered financial or other means to do so.


(viii) *Domestic violence.* Alleged or substantiated violent act(s), including any forceful detention of an individual that results in, threatens to result in, or attempts to cause physical injury or mental harm. This is committed by a person against another individual residing in the child's home and with whom such person is in an intimate relationship, dating relationship, is or was related by marriage, or has a child in common. This circumstance includes domestic violence between the child and his or her partner and applies to a child or youth of any age including those younger and older than the age of majority. This does not include alleged or substantiated maltreatment of the child by a person who is responsible for the child's welfare.


(ix) *Abandonment.* The child was left alone or with others and the parent or legal guardian's identity is unknown and cannot be ascertained. This does not include a child left at a “safe haven” as defined by the title IV-E agency. This category does not apply when the identity of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is known.


(x) *Failure to return.* The parent, legal guardian or caretaker did not or has not returned for the child or made his or her whereabouts known. This category does not apply when the identity of the parent, legal guardian or caretaker is unknown.


(xi) *Caretaker's alcohol use.* A parent, legal guardian or other caretaker responsible for the child uses alcohol compulsively that is not of a temporary nature.


(xii) *Caretaker's drug use.* A parent, legal guardian or other caretaker responsible for the child uses drugs compulsively that is not of a temporary nature.


(xiii) *Child alcohol use.* The child uses alcohol.


(xiv) *Child drug use.* The child uses drugs.


(xv) *Prenatal alcohol exposure.* The child has been identified as prenatally exposed to alcohol, resulting in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders such as fetal alcohol exposure, fetal alcohol effect, or fetal alcohol syndrome.


(xvi) *Prenatal drug exposure.* The child has been identified as prenatally exposed to drugs.


(xvii) *Diagnosed condition.* The child has a clinical diagnosis by a qualified professional of a health, behavioral or mental health condition, such as one or more of the following: Intellectual disability, emotional disturbance, specific learning disability, hearing, speech or sight impairment, physical disability or other clinically diagnosed condition.


(xviii) *Inadequate access to mental health services.* The child and/or child's family has inadequate resources to access the necessary mental health services outside of the child's out-of-home care placement.


(xix) *Inadequate access to medical services.* The child and/or child's family has inadequate resources to access the necessary medical services outside of the child's out-of-home care placement.


(xx) *Child behavior problem.* The child's behavior in his or her school and/or community adversely affects his or her socialization, learning, growth and/or moral development. This includes all child behavior problems, as well as adjudicated and non-adjudicated status or delinquency offenses and convictions.


(xxi) *Death of caretaker.* Existing family stress in caring for the child or an inability to care for the child due to the death of a parent, legal guardian or other caretaker.


(xxii) *Incarceration of caretaker.* The child's parent, legal guardian or caretaker is temporarily or permanently placed in jail or prison which adversely affects his or her ability to care for the child.


(xxiii) *Caretaker's significant impairment—physical/emotional.* A physical or emotional illness or disabling condition of the child's parent, legal guardian or caretaker that adversely limits his or her ability to care for the child.


(xxiv) *Caretaker's significant impairment—cognitive.* The child's parent, legal guardian or caretaker has cognitive limitations that impact his or her ability to function in areas of daily life, which adversely affect his or her ability to care for the child. It also may be characterized by a significantly below-average score on a test of mental ability or intelligence.


(xxv) *Inadequate housing.* The child's or his or her family's housing is substandard, overcrowded, unsafe or otherwise inadequate which results in it being inappropriate for the child to reside.


(xxvi) *Voluntary relinquishment for adoption.* The child's parent has voluntarily relinquished the child by assigning the physical and legal custody of the child to the title IV-E agency, in writing, for the purpose of having the child adopted. This includes a child left at a “safe haven” as defined by the title IV-E agency.


(xxvii) *Child requested placement.* The child, age 18 or older, has requested placement into foster care.


(xxviii) *Sex trafficking.* The child is a victim of sex trafficking at the time of removal.


(xxix) *Parental immigration detainment or deportation.* The parent is or was detained or deported by immigration officials.


(xxx) *Family conflict related to child's sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.* There is family conflict related to the child's expressed or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. This includes any conflict related to the ways in which a child manifests masculinity or femininity.


(xxxi) *Educational neglect.* Alleged or substantiated failure of a parent or caregiver to enroll a child of mandatory school age in school or provide appropriate home schooling or needed special educational training, thus allowing the child or youth to engage in chronic truancy.


(xxxii) *Public agency title IV-E agreement.* The child is in the placement and care responsibility of another public agency that has an agreement with the title IV-E agency pursuant to section 472(a)(2)(B) of the Act and on whose behalf title IV-E foster care maintenance payments are made.


(xxxiii) *Tribal title IV-E agreement.* The child is in the placement and care responsibility of an Indian tribe, tribal organization or consortium with which the title IV-E agency has an agreement and on whose behalf title IV-E foster care maintenance payments are made.


(xxxiv) *Homelessness.* The child or his or her family has no regular or adequate place to live. This includes living in a car, or on the street, or staying in a homeless or other temporary shelter.


(5) *Victim of sex trafficking prior to entering foster care.* Indicate whether the child had been a victim of sex trafficking before the current out-of-home care episode. Indicate “yes” if the child was a victim or “no” if the child had not been a victim.


(i) *Report to law enforcement.* If the title IV-E agency indicated “yes” in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, indicate whether the title IV-E agency made a report to law enforcement for entry into the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) database. Indicate “yes” if the agency made a report to law enforcement and indicate “no” if the agency did not make a report.


(ii) *Date.* If the title IV-E agency indicated “yes” in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, indicate the date that the agency made the report to law enforcement.


(6) *Victim of sex trafficking while in foster care.* Indicate “yes” if the child was a victim of sex trafficking while in out-of-home care during the current out-of-home care episode. Indicate “no” if the child was not a victim of sex trafficking during the current out-of-home care episode.


(i) *Report to law enforcement.* If the title IV-E agency indicated “yes” in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, indicate whether the agency made a report to law enforcement for entry into the NCIC database. Indicate “yes” if the title IV-E agency made a report(s) to law enforcement and indicate “no” if the title IV-E agency did not make a report.


(ii) *Date.* If the title IV-E agency indicated “yes” in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section, indicate the date(s) the agency made the report(s) to law enforcement.


(e) *Living arrangement and provider information*—(1) *Date of living arrangement.* Indicate the month, day and year representing the first date of placement in each of the child's living arrangements for each out-of-home care episode. In the case of a child who has run away, whose whereabouts are unknown, or who is already in a living arrangement and remains there when the title IV-E agency receives placement and care responsibility, indicate the date of the Voluntary Placement Agreement or court order providing the title IV-E agency with placement and care responsibility for the child, rather than the date when the child was originally placed in the living arrangement.


(2) *Foster family home.* Indicate whether each of the child's living arrangements is a foster family home, with a “yes” or “no” as appropriate. If the child has run away or the child's whereabouts are unknown, indicate “no.” If the title IV-E agency indicates that the child is living in a foster family home, by indicating “yes,” the title IV-E agency must complete paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If the title IV-E agency indicates “no,” the title IV-E agency must complete paragraph (e)(4) of this section.


(3) *Foster family home type.* If the title IV-E agency indicated that the child is living in a foster family home in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, indicate whether each foster family home type listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section applies or does not apply; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave paragraph (e)(3) blank.


(i) *Licensed home.* The child's living arrangement is licensed or approved by the state or tribal licensing/approval authority.


(ii) *Therapeutic foster family home.* The home provides specialized care and services.


(iii) *Shelter care foster family home.* The home is so designated by the state or tribal licensing/approval authority, and is designed to provide short-term or transitional care.


(iv) *Relative foster family home.* The foster parent(s) is related to the child by biological, legal or marital connection and the relative foster parent(s) lives in the home as his or her primary residence.


(v) *Pre-adoptive home.* The home is one in which the family and the title IV-E agency have agreed on a plan to adopt the child.


(vi) *Kin foster family home.* The home is one in which there is a kin relationship as defined by the title IV-E agency, such as one where there is a psychological, cultural or emotional relationship between the child or the child's family and the foster parent(s) and there is not a legal, biological, or marital connection between the child and foster parent.


(4) *Other living arrangement type.* If the title IV-E agency indicated that the child's living arrangement is other than a foster family home in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, indicate the type of setting; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (e)(4) blank. Indicate “group home-family operated” if the child is in a group home that provides 24-hour care in a private family home where the family members are the primary caregivers. Indicate “group home-staff operated” if the child is in a group home that provides 24-hour care for children where the care-giving is provided by shift or rotating staff. Indicate “group home-shelter care” if the child is in a group home that provides 24-hour care which is short-term or transitional in nature, and is designated by the state or tribal licensing/approval authority to provide shelter care. Indicate “residential treatment center” if the child is in a facility that has the purpose of treating children with mental health or behavioral conditions or if the child is placed with a parent who is in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility for substance abuse pursuant to section 472(j) of the Act. This does not include a qualified residential treatment program defined in section 472(k)(4) of the Act. Indicate “qualified residential treatment program” if the child is in a placement that meets all of the requirements of section 472(k)(2)(A) and (4) of the Act. Indicate “child care institution” if the child is in a private child care institution, or a public child care institution which accommodates no more than 25 children, and is licensed by the state or tribal authority responsible for licensing or approving child care institutions. This includes a setting specializing in providing prenatal, post-partum, or parenting supports for youth pursuant to section 472(k)(2)(B) of the Act, and a setting providing high-quality residential care and supportive services to children and youth who have been found to be, or are at risk of becoming, sex trafficking victims pursuant to section 472(k)(2)(D) of the Act. This does not include detention facilities, forestry camps, training schools or any other facility operated primarily for the detention of children who are determined to be delinquent. Indicate “child care institution-shelter care” if the child is in a child care institution and the institution is designated to provide shelter care by the state or tribal authority responsible for licensing or approving child care institutions and is short-term or transitional in nature. Indicate “supervised independent living” if the child is living independently in a supervised setting. Indicate “juvenile justice facility” if the child is in a secure facility or institution where alleged or adjudicated juvenile delinquents are housed. Indicate “medical or rehabilitative facility” if the child is in a facility where an individual receives medical or physical health care, such as a hospital. Indicate “psychiatric hospital” if the child is in a facility that provides emotional or psychological health care and is licensed or accredited as a hospital. Indicate “runaway” if the child has left, without authorization, the home or facility where the child was placed. Indicate “whereabouts unknown” if the child is not in the physical custody of the title IV-E agency or person or institution with whom the child has been placed, the child's whereabouts are unknown, and the title IV-E agency does not consider the child to have run away. Indicate “placed at home” if the child is home with the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) in preparation for the title IV-E agency to return the child home permanently.


(5) *Location of living arrangement.* Indicate whether each of the child's living arrangements reported in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is located within or outside of the reporting state or tribal service area or is outside of the country. Indicate “out-of-state or out-of-tribal service area” if the child's living arrangement is located outside of the reporting state or tribal service area but inside the United States. Indicate “in-state or in-tribal service area” if the child's living arrangement is located within the reporting state or tribal service area. Indicate “out-of-country” if the child's living arrangement is outside of the United States. Indicate “runaway or whereabouts unknown” if the child has run away from his or her living arrangement or the child's whereabouts are unknown. If the title IV-E agency indicates either “out-of-state or out-of-tribal service area” or “out-of-country” for the child's living arrangement, the title IV-E agency must complete paragraph (e)(6) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave paragraph (e)(6) of this section blank.


(6) *Jurisdiction or country where child is living.* Indicate the state, tribal service area, Indian reservation, or country where the reporting title IV-E agency placed the child for each living arrangement, if the title IV-E agency indicated either “out-of-state” or “out-of-tribal service area” or “out-of-country” in paragraph (e)(5) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (e)(6) blank. The title IV-E agency must report the information in a format according to ACF's specifications.


(7) *Marital status of the foster parent(s).* Indicate the marital status of the child's foster parent(s) for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Indicate “married couple” if the foster parents are considered united in matrimony according to applicable laws. Include common law marriage, where provided by applicable laws. Indicate “unmarried couple” if the foster parents are living together as a couple, but are not united in matrimony according to applicable laws. Indicate “separated” if the foster parent is legally separated or is living apart from his or her spouse. Indicate “single adult” if the foster parent is not married and is not living with another individual as part of a couple. If the response is either “married couple” or “unmarried couple,” the title IV-E agency must complete the paragraphs for the second foster parent in paragraphs (e)(14) through (18) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave those paragraphs blank.


(8) *Child's relationship to the foster parent(s).* Indicate the type of relationship between the child and his or her foster parent(s), for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Indicate “relative(s)” if the foster parent(s) is the child's relative (by biological, legal or marital connection). Indicate “non-relative(s)” if the foster parent(s) is not related to the child (by biological, legal or marital connection). Indicate “kin” if the foster parent(s) has kin relationship to the child as defined by the title IV-E agency, such as one where there is a psychological, cultural or emotional relationship between the child or the child's family and the foster parent(s) and there is not a legal, biological, or marital connection between the child and foster parent.


(9) *Year of birth for first foster parent.* Indicate the year of birth for the first foster parent for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(10) *First foster parent tribal membership.* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the first foster parent is a member of an Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “unknown.”


(11) *Race of first foster parent.* Indicate the race of the first foster parent for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In general, an individual's race is determined by the individual. Indicate whether each race category listed in paragraphs (e)(11)(i) through (vii) of this section applies with a “yes” or “no.”


(i) *Race—American Indian or Alaska Native.* An American Indian or Alaska Native individual has origins in any of the original peoples of North or South America (including Central America) and maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment.


(ii) *Race—Asian.* An Asian individual has origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand and Vietnam.


(iii) *Race—Black or African American.* A Black or African American individual has origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(iv) *Race—Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.* A Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa or other Pacific Islands.


(v) *Race—White.* A White individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa.


(vi) *Race—unknown.* The first foster parent does not know his or her race, or at least one race.


(vii) *Race—declined.* The first foster parent has declined to identify a race.


(12) *Hispanic or Latino ethnicity of first foster parent.* Indicate the Hispanic or Latino ethnicity of the first foster parent for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In general, an individual's ethnicity is determined by the individual. An individual is of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity if the individual is a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Indicate whether this category applies with a “yes” or “no.” If the first foster parent does not know his or her ethnicity indicate “unknown.” If the individual refuses to identify his or her ethnicity, indicate “declined.”


(13) *Sex of first foster parent.* Indicate whether the first foster parent is “female” or “male.”


(14) *Year of birth for second foster parent.* Indicate the birth year of the second foster parent for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if applicable. The title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (e)(14) blank if there is no second foster parent according to paragraph (e)(7) of this section.


(15) *Second foster parent tribal membership.* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the second foster parent is a member of an Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no,” or “unknown.”


(16) *Race of second foster parent.* Indicate the race of the second foster parent for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if applicable. In general, an individual's race is determined by the individual. Indicate whether each race category listed in paragraphs (e)(16)(i) through (vii) of this section applies with a “yes” or “no.” The title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (e)(16) blank if there is no second foster parent according to paragraph (e)(7) of this section.


(i) *Race—American Indian or Alaska Native.* An American Indian or Alaska Native individual has origins in any of the original peoples of North or South America (including Central America) and maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment.


(ii) *Race—Asian.* An Asian individual has origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand and Vietnam.


(iii) *Race—Black or African American.* A Black or African American individual has origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(iv) *Race—Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.* A Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa or other Pacific Islands.


(v) *Race—White.* A White individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa.


(vi) *Race—unknown.* The second foster parent does not know his or her race, or at least one race.


(vii) *Race—declined.* The second foster parent has declined to identify a race.


(17) *Hispanic or Latino ethnicity of second foster parent.* Indicate the Hispanic or Latino ethnicity of the second foster parent for each foster family home living arrangement in which the child is placed, as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if applicable. In general, an individual's ethnicity is determined by the individual. An individual is of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity if the individual is a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Indicate whether this category applies with a “yes” or “no.” If the second foster parent does not know his or her ethnicity, indicate “unknown.” If the individual refuses to identify his or her ethnicity, indicate “declined.” The title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (e)(17) blank if there is no second foster parent according to paragraph (e)(7) of this section.


(18) *Sex of second foster parent.* Indicate whether the second foster parent is “female” or “male.”


(f) *Permanency planning*—(1) *Permanency plan.* Indicate each permanency plan established for the child. Indicate “reunify with parent(s) or legal guardian(s)” if the plan is to keep the child in out-of-home care for a limited time and the title IV-E agency is to work with the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) to establish a stable family environment. Indicate “live with other relatives” if the plan is for the child to live permanently with a relative(s) (by biological, legal or marital connection) who is not the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate “adoption” if the plan is to facilitate the child's adoption by relatives, foster parents, kin or other unrelated individuals. Indicate “guardianship” if the plan is to establish a new legal guardianship. Indicate “planned permanent living arrangement” if the plan is for the child to remain in foster care until the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility ends. The title IV-E agency must only select “planned permanent living arrangement” consistent with the requirements in section 475(5)(C)(i) of the Act. Indicate “permanency plan not established” if a permanency plan has not yet been established.


(2) *Date of permanency plan.* Indicate the month, day and year that each permanency plan(s) was established during each out-of-home care episode.


(3) *Date of periodic review(s).* Enter the month, day and year of each periodic review, either by a court or by administrative review (as defined in section 475(6) of the Act) that meets the requirements of section 475(5)(B) of the Act.


(4) *Date of permanency hearing(s).* Enter the month, day and year of each permanency hearing held by a court or an administrative body appointed or approved by the court that meets the requirements of section 475(5)(C) of the Act.


(5) *Caseworker visit dates.* Enter each date in which a caseworker had an in-person, face-to-face visit with the child consistent with section 422(b)(17) of the Act. Indicate the month, day and year of each visit.


(6) *Caseworker visit locations.* Indicate the location of each in-person, face-to-face visit between the caseworker and the child. Indicate “child's residence” if the visit occurred at the location where the child is currently residing, such as the current foster care provider's home, child care institution or facility. Indicate “other location” if the visit occurred at any location other than where the child currently resides, such as the child's school, a court, a child welfare office or in the larger community.


(g) *General exit information.* Provide exit information for each out-of-home care episode. An exit occurs when the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility of the child ends.


(1) *Date of exit.* Indicate the month, day and year for each of the child's exits from out-of-home care. An exit occurs when the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility of the child ends. If the child has not exited out-of-home care the title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (g)(1) blank. If this paragraph (g)(1) is applicable, paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section must have a response.


(2) *Exit transaction date.* A non-modifiable, computer-generated date which accurately indicates the month, day and year each response to paragraph (g)(1) of this section was entered into the information system.


(3) *Exit reason.* Indicate the reason for each of the child's exits from out-of-home care. Indicate “not applicable” if the child has not exited out-of-home care. Indicate “reunify with parent(s)/legal guardian(s)” if the child was returned to his or her parent(s) or legal guardian(s) and the title IV-E agency no longer has placement and care responsibility. Indicate “live with other relatives” if the child exited to live with a relative (related by a biological, legal or marital connection) other than his or her parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate “adoption” if the child was legally adopted. Indicate “emancipation” if the child exited care due to age. Indicate “guardianship” if the child exited due to a legal guardianship of the child. Indicate “runaway or whereabouts unknown” if the child ran away or the child's whereabouts were unknown at the time that the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility ends. Indicate “death of child” if the child died while in out-of-home care. Indicate “transfer to another agency” if placement and care responsibility for the child was transferred to another agency, either within or outside of the reporting state or tribal service area.


(4) *Transfer to another agency.* If the title IV-E agency indicated the child was transferred to another agency in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, indicate the type of agency that received placement and care responsibility for the child from the following options: “State title IV-E agency,” “Tribal title IV-E agency,” “Indian tribe or tribal agency (non-IV-E),” “juvenile justice agency,” “mental health agency,” “other public agency” or “private agency.”


(h) *Exit to adoption and guardianship information.* Report information in this paragraph (h) only if the title IV-E agency indicated the child exited to adoption or legal guardianship in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave paragraphs (h)(1) through (15) of this section blank.


(1) *Marital status of the adoptive parent(s) or guardian(s).* Indicate the marital status of the adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate “married couple” if the adoptive parents or legal guardians are considered united in matrimony according to applicable laws. Include common law marriage, where provided by applicable laws. Indicate “married but individually adopting or obtaining legal guardianship” if the adoptive parents or legal guardians are considered united in matrimony according to applicable laws, but are individually adopting or obtaining legal guardianship. Indicate “separated” if the foster parent is legally separated or is living apart from his or her spouse. Indicate “unmarried couple” if the adoptive parents or guardians are living together as a couple, but are not united in matrimony according to applicable laws. Use this response option even if only one person of the unmarried couple is the adoptive parent or legal guardian of the child. Indicate “single adult” if the adoptive parent or legal guardian is not married and is not living with another individual as part of a couple. If the response is “married couple” or “unmarried couple,” the title IV-E agency also must complete paragraphs for the second adoptive parent or second legal guardian in paragraphs (h)(8) through (12) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave those paragraphs blank.


(2) *Child's relationship to the adoptive parent(s) or guardian(s).* Indicate the type of relationship between the child and his or her adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate whether each relationship listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section “applies” or “does not apply.”


(i) *Relative(s).* The adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is the child's relative (by biological, legal or marital connection).


(ii) *Kin.* The adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s) has a kin relationship with the child, as defined by the title IV-E agency, such as one where there is a psychological, cultural or emotional relationship between the child or the child's family and the adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s) and there is not a legal, biological, or marital connection between the child and foster parent.


(iii) *Non-relative(s).* The adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is not related to the child by biological, legal or marital connection.


(iv) *Foster parent(s).* The adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s) was the child's foster parent(s).


(3) *Date of birth of first adoptive parent or guardian.* Indicate the month, day and year of the birth of the first adoptive parent or legal guardian.


(4) *First adoptive parent or guardian tribal membership.* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the first adoptive parent or guardian is a member of an Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no” or “unknown.”


(5) *Race of first adoptive parent or guardian.* In general, an individual's race is determined by the individual. Indicate whether each race category listed in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (vii) of this section applies with a “yes” or “no.”


(i) *Race—American Indian or Alaska Native.* An American Indian or Alaska Native individual has origins in any of the original peoples of North or South America (including Central America), and maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment.


(ii) *Race—Asian.* An Asian individual has origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand and Vietnam.


(iii) *Race—Black or African American.* A Black or African American individual has origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(iv) *Race—Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.* A Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa or other Pacific Islands.


(v) *Race—White.* A White individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa.


(vi) *Race—Unknown.* The first adoptive parent or legal guardian does not know his or her race, or at least one race.


(vii) *Race—Declined.* The first adoptive parent, or legal guardian has declined to identify a race.


(6) *Hispanic or Latino ethnicity of first adoptive parent or guardian.* In general, an individual's ethnicity is determined by the individual. An individual is of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity if the individual is a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Indicate whether this category applies with a “yes” or “no.” If the first adoptive parent or legal guardian does not know his or her ethnicity, indicate “unknown.” If the individual refuses to identify his or her ethnicity, indicate “declined.”


(7) *Sex of first adoptive parent or guardian.* Indicate whether the first adoptive parent is “female” or “male.”


(8) *Date of birth of second adoptive parent, guardian, or other member of the couple.* Indicate the month, day and year of the date of birth of the second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple. The title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (h)(8) blank if there is no second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple according to paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(9) *Second adoptive parent, guardian, or other member of the couple tribal membership.* For state title IV-E agencies only: Indicate whether the second adoptive parent or guardian is a member of an Indian tribe. Indicate “yes,” “no” or “unknown.”


(10) *Race of second adoptive parent, guardian, or other member of the couple.* In general, an individual's race is determined by the individual. Indicate whether each race category listed in paragraphs (h)(10)(i) through (vii) of this section applies with a “yes” or “no.” The title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (h)(10) blank if there is no second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple according to paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(i) *Race—American Indian or Alaska Native.* An American Indian or Alaska Native individual has origins in any of the original peoples of North or South America (including Central America), and maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment.


(ii) *Race—Asian.* An Asian individual has origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand and Vietnam.


(iii) *Race—Black or African American.* A Black or African American individual has origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(iv) *Race—Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.* A Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa or other Pacific Islands.


(v) *Race—White.* A White individual has origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa.


(vi) *Race—Unknown.* The second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple does not know his or her race, or at least one race.


(vii) *Race—Declined.* The second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple has declined to identify a race.


(11) *Hispanic or Latino ethnicity of second adoptive parent, guardian, or other member of the couple.* In general, an individual's ethnicity is determined by the individual. An individual is of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity if the individual is a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Indicate whether this category applies with a “yes” or “no.” If the second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple does not know his or her ethnicity, indicate “unknown.” If the individual refuses to identify his or her ethnicity, indicate “declined.” The title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (h)(11) blank if there is no second adoptive parent, legal guardian, or other member of the couple according to paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(12) *Sex of second adoptive parent, guardian, or other member of the couple.* Indicate whether the second adoptive parent, guardian, or other member of the couple is “female” or “male.”


(13) *Inter/Intrajurisdictional adoption or guardianship.* Indicate whether the child was placed within the state or tribal service area, outside of the state or tribal service area or into another country for adoption or legal guardianship. Indicate “interjurisdictional adoption or guardianship” if the reporting title IV-E agency placed the child for adoption or legal guardianship outside of the state or tribal service area but within the United States. Indicate “intercountry adoption or guardianship” if the reporting title IV-E agency placed the child for adoption or legal guardianship outside of the United States. Indicate “intrajurisdictional adoption or guardianship” if the reporting title IV-E agency placed the child within the same state or tribal service area as the one with placing responsibility.


(14) *Assistance agreement type.* Indicate the type of assistance agreement between the title IV-E agency and the adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s): “Title IV-E adoption assistance agreement”; “State/tribal adoption assistance agreement”; “Adoption-Title IV-E agreement non-recurring expenses only”; “Adoption-Title IV-E agreement Medicaid only”; “Title IV-E guardianship assistance agreement”; “State/tribal guardianship assistance agreement”; or “no agreement” if there is no assistance agreement.


(15) *Siblings in adoptive or guardianship home.* Indicate the number of siblings of the child who are in the same adoptive or guardianship home as the child. A sibling to the child is his or her brother or sister by biological, legal, or marital connection. Do not include the child who is subject of this record in the total number. If the child does not have any siblings, the title IV-E agency must indicate “not applicable.” If the child has siblings, but they are not in the same adoptive or guardianship home as the child, the title IV-E agency must indicate “0.”



---

[N] [85 FR 28424, May 12, 2020]


