# § 110.50   Terms.

(a) *General and specific licenses.* (1) Each license is subject to all applicable provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and other applicable law and to all applicable rules, regulations, decisions and orders of the Commission.


(2) Each license is subject to amendment, suspension, revocation or incorporation of separate conditions when required by amendments of the Atomic Energy Act or other applicable law, or by other rules, regulations, decisions or orders issued in accordance with the terms of the Atomic Energy Act or other applicable law.


(3) A licensee authorized to export or import nuclear material is responsible for compliance with applicable requirements of this chapter, unless a domestic licensee of the Commission has assumed that responsibility and the Commission has been so notified.


(4) Each license authorizes export or import only and does not authorize any person to receive title to, acquire, receive, possess, deliver, use, transport or transfer any nuclear equipment or material subject to this part.


(5) Each license issued by the NRC for the export or import of nuclear material authorizes only the export or import of that nuclear material and accompanying packaging, fuel element, hardware, or other associated devices or products.


(6) No nuclear equipment license confers authority to export or import nuclear material.


(7) Each nuclear equipment export license authorizes the export of only those items required for use in the foreign nuclear installation for which the items are intended.


(8) A licensee shall not proceed to export or import and shall notify the Commission promptly if he knows or has reason to believe that the packaging requirements of part 71 of this chapter have not been met.


(b) *Specific licenses.* (1) Each specific license will have an expiration date.


(2) A licensee may export or import only for the purpose(s) and/or end-use(s) stated in the specific export or import license issued by NRC.


(3) Unless a license specifically authorizes the export of certain foreign-obligated nuclear material or equipment, a licensee may not ship such material or equipment until:


(i) The licensee has requested and the Commission has issued an amendment to the license authorizing such shipment; or


(ii) The licensee has given at least 40 days advance notice of the intended shipment in writing to the Deputy Director, Office of International Programs (OIP); and


(iii) The Deputy Director, OIP has:


(A) Obtained confirmation, through either the Department of Energy or State, that the foreign government in question has given its consent to the intended shipment pursuant to its agreement for cooperation with the United States; and


(B) Communicated this in writing to the licensee.




(c) *Advanced notification.* (1) A licensee authorized to export or import the radioactive material listed in Appendix P to this part is responsible for notifying NRC and, in cases of exports, the government of the importing country in advance of each shipment. A list of points of contact in importing countries is available at NRC's Office of International Programs Web site, accessible on the NRC Public Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov.*

(2) The NRC's office responsible for receiving advance notifications for all export and import shipments is the NRC Headquarters Operations Center. Notifications to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are to be submitted by email (preferred method) or faxed using the contact information specified in appendix A to 10 CFR part 73 of this chapter. In the subject line of the email or on the fax cover page include “10 CFR 110.50(c) Notification.” To contact the NRC Operations Center, use the same email address or call the telephone number in appendix A to 10 CFR part 73. For questions or concerns on submitting these advance notifications to the NRC, please contact the Office of International Programs at 301-287-9056.


(3) Notifications may be electronic or in writing on business stationery, and must contain or be accompanied by the information which follows.


(i) For export notifications:


(A) 10 CFR part 110 export license number and expiration date;


(B) Name of the individual and licensee making the notification, address, and telephone number;


(C) Foreign recipient name, address, and end use location(s) (if different than recipient's address);


(D) Radionuclides and activity level in TBq, both for single and aggregate shipments;


(E) Make, model and serial number, for any Category 1 and 2 sealed sources, if available;


(F) End use in the importing country, if known;


(G) Shipment date; and


(H) A copy of the foreign recipient's authorization or confirmation of that authorization from the government of the importing country as required by § 110.32(g) unless the authorization has already been provided to the NRC.


(ii) For import notifications:


(A) Name of individual and licensee making the notification, address, and telephone number;


(B) Recipient name, location, and address (if different than above);


(C) Name, location, address, contact name and telephone number for exporting facility;


(D) Radionuclides and activity level in TBq, both for single and aggregate shipments;


(E) Make, model and serial number, radionuclide, and activity level for any Category 1 and 2 sealed sources, if available;


(F) End use in the U.S.;


(G) Shipment date from exporting facility and estimated arrival date at the end use location; and


(H) NRC or Agreement State license number to possess the import in the U.S. and expiration date.


(4) Export notifications must be received by the NRC at least 7 days in advance of each shipment, to the extent practical, but in no case less than 24 hours in advance of each shipment. Import notifications must be received by the NRC at least 7 days in advance of each shipment.


(5) Advance notifications containing the above information must be controlled, handled, and transmitted in accordance with § 2.390 of this chapter and other applicable NRC requirements governing protection of sensitive information.


(d) A specific license may be transferred, disposed of or assigned to another person only with the approval of the Commission by license amendment.



---

[N] [75 FR 44091, July 28, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 43404, Aug. 9, 2021]




