# ยง 1225.3   Definitions.

Unless the context requires otherwise, in this part:


*Agent* means a class member who acts for the class during the processing of a class complaint. In order to be accepted as the agent for a class complaint, in addition to those requirements of a complaint found in ยง 1225.3, the complaint must meet the requirements for a class complaint as found in subpart C of this part.


*AmeriCorps member* means a person who serves in a national service position for which a Segal AmeriCorps Education Award could be provided.


*AmeriCorps Seniors Volunteer* means a person who serves as a volunteer through a program funded under Title II of the DVSA, including the Retired Senior Volunteer Program, the Foster Grandparent Program, and the Senior Companion Program.


*Applicant* means a person who has submitted a completed application required for consideration of eligibility for CNCS national service as a member or volunteer. *Applicant* may also mean a person who alleges that the actions of recipient or subrecipient organization staff, or agency personnel precluded him or her from submitting such an application or any other information reasonably required by CNCS as necessary for a determination of the individual's eligibility for national service.


*Candidate* means a person who has accepted an offer to commence service as a member or volunteer but has not yet enrolled for service in a CNCS national service program.


*CEO* means the Chief Executive Officer of CNCS. The term shall also refer to any designee of the CEO.


*Complaint* means a written statement signed by the complainant and submitted to the EEOP Director. A complaint shall set forth specifically and in detail:


(1) A description of the management policy or practice during the application stage as an applicant, during the candidacy stage as a candidate, or during the service stage as a member or volunteer, if any, giving rise to the complaint;


(2) A detailed description including names and dates, if possible, of the actions of CNCS, recipients or subrecipients of CNCS assistance or resources, or the officials of those recipients or subrecipients, which resulted in the alleged illegal discrimination;


(3) The manner in which the action of CNCS, or the CNCS recipient or subrecipient, directly affected the complainant; and


(4) The relief sought.


(5) A complaint shall be deemed filed on the date it is received by the appropriate agency official. When a complaint does not conform with the above definition, it shall nevertheless be accepted. The complainant shall be notified of the steps necessary to correct the deficiencies of the complaint. The complainant shall have 30 days from his or her receipt of notification of the complaint defects to resubmit an amended complaint.


*Counselor* means an official designated by the EEOP Director to perform the functions of conciliation as detailed in this part.


*EEOP Director* means the Director of the Equal Employment Opportunity Program of CNCS. The term shall also refer to any designee of the EEOP Director.


*Illegal discrimination* means discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, age, sex, disability or political affiliation as defined in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e *et seq.*); Title V of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791, *et seq.*); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101, *et seq.*), Section 175 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, and Section 5057 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended. Further clarification of the scope of matters covered by this definition may be obtained by referring to the following regulations: Sex Discrimination: 29 CFR part 1604; Religious Discrimination: 29 CFR part 1605; National Origin Discrimination: 29 CFR part 1606; Age Discrimination: 45 CFR part 90; Disability Discrimination: 29 CFR part 1630.




