# § 516.115   Definitions.

(a) The following definitions of terms apply only in the context of subpart C of this part:


*Director OMUMS* means the Director of the Office of Minor Use and Minor Species Animal Drug Development of the FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine.


*Holder* means the requestor of an index listing after the request is granted and the new animal drug is added to the index.


*Index* means FDA's list of legally marketed unapproved new animal drugs for minor species.


*Intended use* has the same meaning as that given in § 516.13 of this chapter.


*Qualified expert panel* means a panel that is composed of experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the target animal safety and effectiveness of a new animal drug under consideration for indexing.


*Requestor* means the person making a request for determination of eligibility for indexing or a request for addition to the index.


*Transgenic animal* means an animal whose genome contains a nucleotide sequence that has been intentionally modified in vitro, and the progeny of such an animal, provided that the term ‘transgenic animal’ does not include an animal of which the nucleotide sequence of the genome has been modified solely by selective breeding.


(b) The definitions of the following terms are given in § 514.3 of this chapter:


Adverse drug experience.


Product defect/manufacturing defect.


Serious adverse drug experience.


Unexpected adverse drug experience.


(c) The definitions of the following terms are given in § 516.3 of this chapter:


Same dosage form.


Same drug.


Same intended use.




