# § 423.410   Waiver of certain requirements to expand choice.

(a) *Authorizing waiver.* In the case of an entity that seeks to offer a prescription drug plan in a State, CMS waives the licensure requirement at § 423.401(a)(1), which requires that the etity be licensed in that State if CMS determines, based on the application and other evidence presented, that any of the grounds for approval of the application described in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section are met.


(b) *Grounds for approval of waivers.* Subject to the waiver requirements specified in § 423.410(e), waivers may be granted under any of the following conditions:


(1) *Failure to act on licensure application on a timely basis.* The State failed to complete action on the licensing application within 90 days of the date that the State received a substantially complete application.


(2) *Denial of application based on discriminatory treatment.* The State denied the license application on either of the following bases—-


(i) The State imposed material requirements, procedures, or standards (other than solvency requirements) not generally applied by the State to other entities engaged in a substantially similar business; or


(ii) The State required, as a condition of licensure, that the organization offer any product or plan other than a prescription drug plan.


(3) *Denial of application based on application of solvency requirements.* The State denied the licensure application, in whole or in part, on the basis of the PDP sponsor's failure to meet solvency requirements and


(i) The solvency requirements are different from the solvency standards CMS establishes in accordance with § 423.420; or


(ii) CMS determines that the State imposed, as a condition of licensing, any documentation or information requirements relating to solvency that are different from the standards CMS establishes in accordance with § 423.420.


(4) *Grounds other than those required by Federal Law.* The application by a State of any grounds other than those required under Federal law.


(c) *Waiver when licensing process not in effect.* The grounds for approval specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are deemed met if CMS determines that the State does not have a licensing process in effect for PDP sponsors.


(d) *Special waiver for plan years beginning before January 1, 2008.* For plan years beginning before January 1, 2008, if the State has a prescription drug plan or PDP sponsor licensing process in effect, CMS grants a waiver upon a demonstration that an applicant to become a PDP sponsor has submitted a substantially completed application for licensure to the State.


(e) *Waiver requirements.* The following rules apply to waiver applications or waivers granted under this section.


(1) *Treatment of waiver.* The waiver applies only to that State, is effective for 36 months, and cannot be renewed.


(2) *Prompt action on application.* CMS grants or denies a waiver application under this section within 60 days after CMS determines that a substantially complete waiver application is received by CMS.


(3) *A State that does not have a PDP sponsor.* In the case of a State that does not have a PDP sponsor licensing process, the 36 month limitation on the waiver discussed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply, and the waiver may continue in effect for a given State as long as CMS determines that the State does not have a PDP sponsor licensing process in effect, and the PDP sponsor meets the solvency standards of § 423.420(a).



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 20506, Apr. 15, 2008]




