# ยง 3565.452   Decision to liquidate.

(a) A decision to liquidate shall be made when it is determined that the default cannot be cured through actions contained in ยง 3565.403 or it has been determined that it is in the best interest of the Agency and the lender to liquidate. For interest accrual purposes, interest will accrue for 90 calendar days after the date the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency. If within 20 calendar days of the Agency's receipt of the liquidation plan, the Agency fails to respond to the lender's proposal or advise the lender to make revisions to the plan that was submitted, the liquidation plan will be approved by default, and the 90 calendar day period for interest accrual will commence.


(b) In the event of a default involving a loan to an Indian tribe or tribal corporation made under this section which is secured by an interest in land within such tribe's reservation (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior), including a community in Alaska incorporated by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 461 *et seq.*), the lender shall only pursue liquidation after offering to transfer the account to an eligible tribal member, the tribe, or the Indian housing authority serving the tribe. If the lender subsequently proceeds to liquidate the account, the lender shall not sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of or alienate the property except to one of the entities described in the preceding sentence.



---

[N] [67 FR 16971, Apr. 9, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 2932, Jan. 19, 2005]




