# ยง 21.5   Disqualifying factors.

A person may not hold, or act under authorization of, a permit granted by regulation or permit under this part if any of the following circumstances apply, unless the Director expressly waives that disqualification in writing prior to any act in question:


(a) The person has been convicted of or pled guilty or *nolo contendere* to a felony violation of the Lacey Act (18 U.S.C. 42, as amended), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703-712), or the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 668-668d).


(b) The person has had any other authorization, license, or permit issued pursuant to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act or Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act revoked in accordance with ยง 13.28 of this subchapter B within the last 5 years.


(c) The person has failed to pay any required fees, penalties, or other money owed, for any reason, to the United States. Disqualification is effective as soon as the deficiency applies. This disqualification is lifted when the money owed is paid in full unless the Service notifies the person in writing of permanent disqualification due to repeated or extended failure to pay.


(d) The person has failed to submit timely, accurate, or valid reports required under this part. Disqualification is effective as soon as the deficiency applies. This disqualification is lifted when the required reports are submitted unless the Service notifies the person in writing of permanent disqualification due to repeated or extended failure to meet reporting requirements.







---

[N] [89 FR 107039, Dec. 31, 2024]




