# § 1.6049-9   Premium subject to reporting for a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2014.

(a) *General rule.* Notwithstanding § 1.6049-5(f), for a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2014, if a broker (as defined in § 1.6045-1(a)(1)) is required to file a statement for the debt instrument under § 1.6049-6, the broker generally must report any bond premium (as defined in § 1.171-1(d)) or acquisition premium (as defined in § 1.1272-2(b)(3)) for the calendar year. This section, however, only applies to a debt instrument that is a covered security as defined in § 1.6045-1(a)(15).


(b) *Reporting of bond premium amortization.* Unless a broker has been notified in writing in accordance with § 1.6045-1(n)(5) that a customer does not want to amortize bond premium under section 171, the broker must report the amount of any amortizable bond premium allocable to a stated interest payment made to the customer during the calendar year. See §§ 1.171-2 and 1.171-3 to determine the amount of amortizable bond premium allocable to a stated interest payment. Instead of reporting a gross amount for both stated interest and amortizable bond premium, a broker may report a net amount of stated interest that reflects the offset of the stated interest payment by the amount of amortizable bond premium allocable to the payment. In this case, the broker must not report the amortizable bond premium as a separate item. This paragraph (b) also applies to amortizable bond premium on a tax-exempt obligation, which is required to be amortized under section 171.


(c) *Reporting of acquisition premium amortization.* A broker must report the amount of any acquisition premium amortization that reduces the amount of original issue discount includible in income by the customer during a calendar year. For a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2015, a broker must use the rules in § 1.1272-2(b)(4) to determine the amount of acquisition premium amortization. However, for a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2014, and before January 1, 2015, if a customer timely notifies the broker in accordance with § 1.6045-1(n)(5), a broker may use the rules in § 1.1272-3 to determine the amount of acquisition premium amortization. Instead of reporting a gross amount for both original issue discount and acquisition premium amortization, a broker may report a net amount of original issue discount that reflects the offset of the original issue discount includible in income by the customer for the calendar year by the amount of acquisition premium allocable to the original issue discount. In this case, the broker must not report the acquisition premium amortization as a separate item. See § 1.6049-10 for the reporting of acquisition premium on a tax-exempt obligation.



---

[N] [T.D. 9713, 80 FR 13239, Mar. 13, 2015; T.D. 9750, 81 FR 24702, Apr. 27, 2016]




