# § 147.200   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Arkansas, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on July 6, 1982 (47 FR 29236); the effective date of this program is July 6, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Arkansas. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Arkansas Water and Air Pollution Control Act, Act 472 of 1949 as amended, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 82-1901 through 82-1943 (1976);


(2) Act 105 of 1939, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 53-101 through 53-130 (1971 and Supp. 1981); Act 937 of 1979, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 53-1301 through 53-1320 (Supp. 1981); Act 523 of 1981;


(3) Arkansas Underground Injection Control Code, Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, promulgated January 22, 1982;


(4) General Rule and Regulations, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission (Order No. 2-39, revised July 1972);


(5) Arkansas Hazardous Waste Management Code, Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, promulgated August 21, 1981.


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement and Addendum No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, between EPA Region VI and the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology and the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 25, 1982.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Letter from Chief Attorney, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Administrator, EPA Region VI, “Re: Legal Authority of the Department of Pollution Control and Ecology of the State of Arkansas to Administer an Underground Injection Control Program,” July 29, 1981;


(2) Letter from Chief Attorney, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” October 13, 1981;


(3) Letter from General Counsel, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Supplemental Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” October 20, 1981;


(4) Letter from Chief Attorney, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Attorney, Office of Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI (re: status as independent legal counsel), December 31, 1981;


(5) Letter from General Counsel, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Supplemental Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” January 13, 1982;


(6) Letter from Chief Counsel, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” February 15, 1982;


(7) Letter from Chief Counsel, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” May 13, 1982.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988]




