# ยง 125.66   Toxics control program.

(a) *Chemical analysis.* (1) The applicant shall submit at the time of application a chemical analysis of its current discharge for all toxic pollutants and pesticides as defined in ยง 125.58(aa) and (p). The analysis shall be performed on two 24-hour composite samples (one dry weather and one wet weather). Applicants may supplement or substitute chemical analyses if composition of the supplemental or substitute samples typifies that which occurs during dry and wet weather conditions. 


(2) Unless required by the State, this requirement shall not apply to any small section 301(h) applicant which certifies that there are no known or suspected sources of toxic pollutants or pesticides and documents the certification with an industrial user survey as described by 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2). 


(b) *Identification of sources.* The applicant shall submit at the time of application an analysis of the known or suspected sources of toxic pollutants or pesticides identified in ยง 125.66(a). The applicant shall to the extent practicable categorize the sources according to industrial and nonindustrial types. 


(c) *Industrial pretreatment requirements.* (1) An applicant that has known or suspected industrial sources of toxic pollutants shall have an approved pretreatment program in accordance with 40 CFR part 403. 


(2) This requirement shall not apply to any applicant which has no known or suspected industrial sources of toxic pollutants or pesticides and so certifies to the Administrator. 


(3) The pretreatment program submitted by the applicant under this section shall be subject to revision as required by the Administrator prior to issuing or renewing any section 301(h) modified permit and during the term of any such permit. 


(4) Implementation of all existing pretreatment requirements and authorities must be maintained through the period of development of any additional pretreatment requirements that may be necessary to comply with the requirements of this subpart. 


(d) *Nonindustrial source control program.* (1) The applicant shall submit a proposed public education program designed to minimize the entrance of nonindustrial toxic pollutants and pesticides into its POTW(s) which shall be implemented no later than 18 months after issuance of a 301(h) modified permit. 


(2) The applicant shall also develop and implement additional nonindustrial source control programs on the earliest possible schedule. This requirement shall not apply to a small applicant which certifies that there are no known or suspected water quality, sediment accumulation, or biological problems related to toxic pollutants or pesticides in its discharge. 


(3) The applicant's nonindustrial source control programs under paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall include the following schedules which are to be implemented no later than 18 months after issuance of a section 301(h) modified permit: 


(i) A schedule of activities for identifying nonindustrial sources of toxic pollutants and pesticides; and 


(ii) A schedule for the development and implementation of control programs, to the extent practicable, for nonindustrial sources of toxic pollutants and pesticides. 


(4) Each proposed nonindustrial source control program and/or schedule submitted by the applicant under this section shall be subject to revision as determined by the Administrator prior to issuing or renewing any section 301(h) modified permit and during the term of any such permit. 




