# ยง 1254.8   Enterprise Business Assessment.

(a) *Requirement for Enterprise Business Assessment.* An Enterprise will undertake an Enterprise Business Assessment of each application that the Enterprise determines to have passed the Credit Score Assessment. An Enterprise must determine whether an application passes the Enterprise Business Assessment.


(b) *Criteria for Enterprise Business Assessment.* The Enterprise Business Assessment is based on the following criteria:


(1) *Accuracy; reliability.* The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate whether a new credit score model produces credit scores that are more accurate than and at least as reliable as credit scores produced by any credit score model currently in use by the Enterprise. This evaluation must consider credit scores as used by the Enterprise within its systems or processes that use a credit score for mortgage purchases.


(2) *Fair lending assessment.* The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the fair lending risk and fair lending impact of the credit score model in accordance with standards and requirements related to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691(a)(1)), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3605(a)), and the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4545(1)) (including identification of potential impact, comparison of the new credit score model with any credit score model currently in use, and consideration of potential methods of using the new credit score model). This evaluation must consider credit scores as used by the Enterprise within its systems or processes that use a credit score for mortgage purchases. The fair lending assessment must also consider any impact on access to credit related to the use of a particular credit score model.


(3) *Impact on Enterprise operations and risk management, and impact on industry.* The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the impact using the credit score model would have on Enterprise operations (including any impact on purchase eligibility criteria and loan pricing) and risk management (including counterparty risk management) in accordance with standards and requirements related to prudential management and operations and governance set forth at parts 1236 and 1239 of this chapter. This evaluation must consider whether the benefits of using credit scores produced by that model can reasonably be expected to exceed the adoption and ongoing costs of using such credit scores, considering projected benefits and costs to the Enterprises. The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the impact of using the credit score model on industry operations and mortgage market liquidity, including costs associated with implementation of a newly approved credit score. This evaluation must consider whether the benefits of using credit scores produced by that model can reasonably be expected to exceed the adoption and ongoing costs of using such credit scores, considering projected benefits and costs to the Enterprises and borrowers, including market liquidity and cost and availability of credit.


(4) *Competitive effects.* The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate whether using the credit score model could have an impact on competition in the industry. This evaluation must consider whether use of a credit score model could have an impact on competition due to any ownership or other business relationship between the credit score model developer and any other institution.


(5) *Third-Party Provider Review.* The Enterprise Business Assessment must evaluate the credit score model developer under the Enterprise standards for approval of third-party providers.


(6) *Other requirements.* An Enterprise may establish requirements for the Enterprise Business Assessment in addition to the criteria established by FHFA.


(c) *Timing of Enterprise Business Assessment.* The Enterprise Business Assessment must be completed within 240 days.


(d) *FHFA Evaluation.* FHFA will conduct an independent analysis of the potential impacts of any change to an Enterprise's credit score model. FHFA will initiate its analysis no later than the beginning of the Enterprise Business Assessment. Based on its analysis, FHFA may:


(1) Require an Enterprise to undertake additional analysis, monitoring, or reporting to further the purposes of this part;


(2) Require an Enterprise to permit the use of a single credit score model or multiple credit score models; or


(3) Require any other change to an Enterprise program, policy, or practice related to the Enterprise's use of credit scores.




