# § 1.26   Procedure.

(a) *Investigations and conferences.* In connection with any rulemaking proceeding, the Commission at any time may conduct such investigations, make such studies, and hold such conferences as it may deem necessary. All or any part of any such investigation may be conducted under the provisions of subpart A of part 2 of this chapter.


(b) *Notice.* General notice of proposed rulemaking will be published in the _Federal Register_ and, to the extent practicable, otherwise made available to interested persons except when the Commission for good cause finds that notice and public procedure relating to the rule are impractical, unnecessary or contrary to the public interest and incorporates such finding and a brief statement of the reasons therefor in the rule. If the rulemaking proceeding was instituted pursuant to petition, a copy of the notice will be served on the petitioner. Such notice will include:


(1) A statement of the time, place, and nature of the public proceedings;


(2) Reference to the authority under which the rule is proposed;


(3) Either the terms or substance of the proposed rule or description of the subjects and issues involved;


(4) An opportunity for interested persons to participate in the proceeding through the submission of written data, views, or arguments; and




(5) A statement setting forth such procedures for treatment of communications from persons not employed by the Commission to Commissioners or Commissioner Advisors with respect to the merits of the proceeding as will incorporate the requirements of § 1.18(c), including the transcription of oral communications required by § 1.18(c)(1)(ii), adapted in such form as may be appropriate to the circumstances of the particular proceeding.








(c) *Oral hearings.* Oral hearing on a proposed rule may be held within the discretion of the Commission, unless otherwise expressly required by law. Any such hearing will be conducted by the Commission, a member thereof, or a member of the Commission's staff. At the hearing interested persons may appear and express their views as to the proposed rule and may suggest such amendments, revisions, and additions thereto as they may consider desirable and appropriate. The presiding officer may impose reasonable limitations upon the length of time allotted to any person. If by reason of the limitations imposed the person cannot complete the presentation of his suggestions, he may within twenty-four (24) hours file a written statement covering those relevant matters which he did not orally present.


(d) *Promulgation of rules or orders.* The Commission, after consideration of all relevant matters of fact, law, policy, and discretion, including all relevant matters presented by interested persons in the proceeding, will adopt and publish in the _Federal Register_ an appropriate rule or order, together with a concise general statement of its basis and purpose and any necessary findings, or will give other appropriate public notice of disposition of the proceeding. The _Federal Register_ publication will contain the information required by the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501-3520, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601-612, if applicable. For each rule for which the Commission must prepare a final regulatory flexibility analysis, the Commission will publish one or more guides to assist small entities in complying with the rule. Such guides will be designated as “small entity compliance guides.”


(e) *Effective date of rules.* Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, the effective date of any rule, or of the amendment, suspension, or repeal of any rule will be as specified in a notice published in the _Federal Register,_ which date will be not less than thirty (30) days after the date of such publication unless an earlier effective date is specified by the Commission upon good cause found and published with the rule.


(f) *Effective date of rules and orders under Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.* The effective date of any rule or order under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act will be as specified by order published in the _Federal Register,_ but shall not be prior to the day following the last day on which objections may be filed under paragraph (g) of this section.


(g) *Objections and request for hearing under Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.* On or before the thirtieth (30th) day after the date of publication of an order in the _Federal Register_ pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, any person who will be adversely affected by the order if placed in effect may file objections thereto with the Secretary of the Commission, specifying with particularity the provisions of the order deemed objectionable, stating the grounds therefor, and requesting a public hearing upon such objections. Objections will be deemed sufficient to warrant the holding of a public hearing only:


(1) If they establish that the objector will be adversely affected by the order;


(2) If they specify with particularity the provisions of the order to which objection is taken; and


(3) If they are supported by reasonable grounds which, if valid and factually supported, may be adequate to justify the relief sought.



---

[N] [32 FR 8444, June 13, 1967. Redesignated at 40 FR 15232, Apr. 4, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 16368, Mar. 19, 1979; 50 FR 53304, Dec. 31, 1985; 63 FR 36340, July 6, 1998; 88 FR 42874, July 5, 2023]




