# ยง 50.202   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Arrange for* means to make arrangements (other than mere referral of an individual to, or the mere making of an appointment for him or her with, another health care provider) for the performance of a medical procedure on an individual by a health care provider other than the program or project.


*Hysterectomy* means a medical procedure or operation for the purpose of removing the uterus.


*Institutionalized individual* means an individual who is (1) involuntarily confined or detained, under a civil or criminal statute, in a correctional or rehabilitative facility, including a mental hospital or other facility for the care and treatment of mental illness, or (2) confined, under a voluntary commitment, in a mental hospital or other facility for the care and treatment of mental illness.


*Mentally incompetent individual* means an individual who has been declared mentally incompetent by a Federal, State, or local court of competent jurisdiction for any purpose unless he or she has been declared competent for purposes which include the ability to consent to sterilization.


*Public Health Service* means the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Health Resources and Services Administration, National Institutes of Health, Centers for Disease Control, Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration and all of their constituent agencies.


The *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated.


*Sterilization* means any medical procedure, treatment, or operation for the purpose of rendering an individual permanently incapable of reproducing.



---

[N] [43 FR 52165, Nov. 8, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 38109, Sept. 27, 1984]




