# ยง 20.41   Application for industrial alcohol user permit.

(a) *Dealers.* A person who desires to withdraw and deal in specially denatured spirits shall, before commencing business, file an application on Form 5150.22 for, and obtain a permit, Form 5150.9.


(b) *Users.* A person who desires to withdraw and use or recover specially denatured spirits shall, before commencing business, file an application on Form 5150.22 for, and obtain a permit, Form 5150.9. The provisions of this paragraph also apply to persons desiring to recover denatured spirits from articles.


(c) *Filing.* All applications and necessary supporting documents, as required by this subpart, shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer. All data, written statements, certifications, affidavits, and other documents submitted in support of the application are considered a part of the application.


(1) Applications filed as provided in this section, shall be accompanied by evidence establishing the authority of the officer or other person to execute the application.


(2) A State, political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, may specify in the application that it desires a single permit authorizing the withdrawal and use of specially denatured spirits in a number of institutions under it control. In this instance, the application, Form 5150.22, or an attachment, shall clearly show the method of distributing and accounting for the specially denatured spirits to be withdrawn.


(d) *Exceptions.* (1) The proprietor of a distilled spirits plant qualified under part 19 of this chapter is not required to qualify under this part for activities conducted at that plant's bonded premises.


(2) A permittee who was previously qualified on the effective date of this regulation shall not be required to requalify under this part.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9162, Mar. 6, 1985; 50 FR 20099, May 14, 1985; T.D. TTB-140, 81 FR 59456, Aug. 30, 2016]




