# ยง 503.25   Public interest.

(a) *Eligibility.* Section 211(c) of the Act provides for a temporary public interest exemption. To qualify, a petitioner must demonstrate that:


(1) The unit will be capable of complying with the applicable prohibitions at the end of the proposed exemption period;


(2) The granting of the exemption would be in accord with the purposes of the Act and would be in the public interest; and


(3) No alternate power supply exists, as required under ยง 503.8 of these regulations. 


(b) *Evidence required in support of a petition.* The petition must include the following evidence in order to make the demonstration required by this section:


(1) Substantial evidence to corroborate the eligibility requirements identified above; and 


(2) The anticipated duration of the circumstances which constitute the basis for the exemption.


(c) *Certification alternative.* If the petitioner requires use of oil or natural gas in a unit, during the construction of an alternate-fuel fired unit, the petitioner may substitute, in lieu of the evidentiary requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section: 


(1) A duly executed certification, including the requested duration of the exemption, that the unit will be operated on oil or natural gas only during the construction of an alternate fuel fired unit to be owned or operated by the petitioner; and


(2) Exhibits containing the basis for the certifications required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section (including those factual and analytical materials deemed by the petitioner to be sufficient to support the granting of this exemption). 


(d) *Duration.* This temporary exemption, taking into account extension and renewals, may not exceed 5 years.



---

[N] [46 FR 59903, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 52894, Dec. 22, 1989]




