# § 5.25   Conversion from a national bank or Federal savings association to a State bank or State savings association.

(a) *Authority.* 12 U.S.C. 93a, 214a, 214b, 214c, 214d, 1462a, 1463, 1464, and 5412(b)(2)(B).


(b) *Licensing requirement.* A national bank must give notice to the OCC before converting to a State bank (including a State bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 214(a)) or a State savings association. A Federal savings association must give notice to the OCC before converting to a State savings association or a State bank. A Federal mutual savings association that plans to convert to a stock State bank must first convert to a Federal stock savings association under 12 CFR part 192.


(c) *Scope.* This section describes the procedures for a national bank seeking to convert to a State bank or a State savings association or for a Federal savings association seeking to convert to a State savings association or a State bank.


(d) *Procedures*—(1) *National banks.* A national bank may convert to a State bank (including a State bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 214(a)) or a State savings association in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 214a and 214c, without prior OCC approval, subject to compliance with 12 U.S.C. 214d. Termination of a national bank's status as a national bank occurs upon the bank's completion of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a, and upon the OCC's receipt of the bank's national bank charter in connection with the consummation of the conversion.


(2) *Federal savings associations.* A Federal savings association may convert to a State savings association or to a State bank, without prior OCC approval, subject to compliance with 12 U.S.C. 1464(i)(6). Termination of a Federal savings association's status as a Federal savings association occurs upon receipt of the Federal savings association's charter in connection with the consummation of the conversion.


(3) *Notice of intent.* (i) A national bank that desires to convert to a State bank (including a State bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 214(a)) or State savings association, or a Federal savings association that desires to convert to a State savings association or a State bank,must submit a notice of intent to convert to the appropriate OCC licensing office. The national bank or Federal savings association must file this notice with the OCC at the time it files a conversion application with the appropriate State authority or the prospective appropriate Federal banking agency. The national bank or Federal savings association also must transmit a copy of the conversion application to the prospective appropriate Federal banking agency if it has not already done so.


(ii) The notice must include:


(A) A copy of the conversion application; and


(B) An analysis demonstrating that the conversion is in compliance with laws of the applicable jurisdictions regarding the permissibility, requirements, and procedures for conversions, including any applicable stockholder or account holder approval requirements.


(4) *Consultation.* The OCC may consult with the appropriate State authorities or the prospective appropriate Federal banking agency regarding the proposed conversion.


(5) *Termination of status.* After receipt of the notice, the appropriate OCC licensing office provides instructions to the national bank or Federal savings association for terminating its status as a national bank or Federal savings association.


(e) *Exceptions to rules of general applicability.* Sections 5.5 through 5.8 and 5.10 through 5.13 do not apply to this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 28433, May 18, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 80446, Dec. 11, 2020]




