# § 0.284   Actions taken under delegated authority.

(a) In discharging the authority conferred by § 0.283 of this part, the Chief, Media Bureau, shall establish working relationships with other bureaus and staff offices to assure the effective coordination of actions taken in the following areas of joint responsibility;


(1) Complaints arising under section 315 of the Communications Act—Office of General Counsel.


(2) Requests for waiver of tower painting and lighting specifications-Wireless Telecommunications Bureau.


(3) Requests for use of frequencies or bands of frequencies shared with private sector nonbroadcast or government services—Office of Engineering and Technology and appropriate operating bureau.


(4) Requests involving coordination with other agencies of government—Office of General Counsel, Office of Engineering and Technology and appropriate operating bureau.


(5) Proposals involving possible harmful impact on radio astronomy or radio research installations—Office of Engineering and Technology.


(b) With respect to non-routine applications granted under authority delegated in § 0.283 of this part, the Chief, Media Bureau or his designees, shall enter on the working papers associated with each application a narrative justification of the action taken. While not available for public inspection, these working papers shall, upon request, be made available to the Commissioners and members of their staffs.



---

[N] [47 FR 47829, Oct. 28, 1982; 47 FR 56852, Dec. 21, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 12615, Apr. 14, 1986; 52 FR 5288, Feb. 20, 1987; 59 FR 32132, June 22, 1994; 59 FR 67092, Dec. 28, 1994; 61 FR 8477, Mar. 5, 1996; 64 FR 60721, Nov. 8, 1999; 67 FR 13220, Mar. 21, 2002; 71 FR 69036, Nov. 29, 2006]


















