# § 762.106   Preferred and certified lender programs.

(a) *General.* (1) Lenders who desire PLP or CLP status must prepare a written request addressing:


(i) The States in which they desire to receive PLP or CLP status and their branch offices which they desire to be considered by the Agency for approval; and


(ii) Each item of the eligibility criteria for PLP or CLP approval in this section, as appropriate.


(2) The lender may include any additional supporting evidence or other information the lender believes would be helpful to the Agency in making its determination.


(3) The lender must send its request to the Agency State office for the State in which the lender's headquarters is located.


(4) The lender must provide any additional information requested by the Agency to process a PLP or CLP request if the lender continues with the approval process.


(b) *CLP criteria.* The lender must meet the following requirements to obtain CLP status:


(1) Qualify as a standard eligible lender under § 762.105;


(2) Have a lender loss rate not in excess of the maximum CLP loss rate established by the Agency and published periodically in a _Federal Register_ Notice. The Agency may waive the loss rate criteria for those lenders whose loss rate was substantially affected by a disaster as defined in § 761.2(b) and part 759 of this chapter.


(3) Have proven an ability to process and service Agency guaranteed loans by showing that the lender:


(i) Submitted substantially complete and correct guaranteed loan applications; and


(ii) Serviced all guaranteed loans according to Agency regulations;


(4) Have made the minimum number of guaranteed OL, FO, CL, or SW loans established by the Agency and published periodically in a _Federal Register_ Notice.


(5) Not be under any regulatory enforcement action such as a cease and desist order, written agreement, or an appointment of conservator or receiver, based upon financial condition;


(6) Designate a qualified person or persons to process and service Agency guaranteed loans for each of the lender offices which will process CLP loans. To be qualified, the person must meet the following conditions:


(i) Have attended Agency sponsored training in the past 12 months or will attend training in the next 12 months; and


(ii) Agree to attend Agency sponsored training each year;


(7) Use forms acceptable to the Agency for processing, analyzing, securing, and servicing Agency guaranteed loans and lines of credit;


(c) *PLP criteria.* The lender must meet the following requirements to obtain PLP status:


(1) Meet the CLP eligibility criteria under this section.


(2) Have a credit management system, satisfactory to the Agency, based on the following:


(i) The lender's written credit policies and underwriting standards;


(ii) Loan documentation requirements;


(iii) Exceptions to policies;


(iv) Analysis of new loan requests;


(v) Credit file management;


(vi) Loan funds and collateral management system;


(vii) Portfolio management;


(viii) Loan reviews;


(ix) Internal credit review process;


(x) Loan monitoring system; and


(xi) The board of director's responsibilities.


(3) Have made the minimum number of guaranteed OL, FO, CL, or SW loans established by the Agency and published periodically in a _Federal Register_ Notice.


(4) Have a lender loss rate not in excess of the rate of the maximum PLP loss rate established by the Agency and published periodically in a _Federal Register_ Notice. The Agency may waive the loss rate criteria for those lenders whose loss rate was substantially affected by a disaster as defined in § 761.2(b) and part 759 of this chapter.


(5) Show a consistent practice of submitting applications for guaranteed loans containing accurate information supporting a sound loan proposal.


(6) Show a consistent practice of processing Agency guaranteed loans without recurring major or minor deficiencies.


(7) Demonstrate a consistent, above average ability to service guaranteed loans based on the following:


(i) Borrower supervision and assistance;


(ii) Timely and effective servicing; and


(iii) Communication with the Agency.


(8) Designate a person or persons, either by name, title, or position within the organization, to process and service PLP loans for the Agency.


(d) *CLP and PLP approval.* (1) If a lender applying for CLP or PLP status is or has recently been involved in a merger or acquisition, all loans and losses attributed to both lenders will be considered in the eligibility calculations.


(2) The Agency will determine which branches of the lender have the necessary experience and ability to participate in the CLP or PLP program based on the information submitted in the lender application and on Agency experience.


(3) Lenders who meet the criteria will be granted CLP or PLP status for a period not to exceed 5 years.


(4) PLP status will be conditioned on the lender carrying out its credit management system as proposed in its request for PLP status and any additional loan making or servicing requirements agreed to and documented the PLP lender's agreement. If the PLP lender's agreement does not specify any agreed upon process for a particular action, the PLP lender will act according to regulations governing CLP lenders.


(e) *Monitoring CLP and PLP lenders.* CLP and PLP lenders will provide information and access to records upon Agency request to permit the Agency to audit the lender for compliance with these regulations.


(f) *Renewal of CLP or PLP status.* (1) PLP or CLP status will expire within a period not to exceed 5 years from the date the lender's agreement is executed, unless a new lender's Agreement is executed.


(2) Renewal of PLP or CLP status is not automatic. A lender must submit a written request for renewal of a lender's agreement with PLP or CLP status which includes information:


(i) Updating the material submitted in the initial application; and,


(ii) Addressing any new criteria established by the Agency since the initial application.


(3) PLP or CLP status will be renewed if the applicable eligibility criteria under this section are met, and no cause exists for denying renewal under paragraph (g) of this section.


(g) *Revocation of PLP or CLP status.* (1) The Agency may revoke the lender's PLP or CLP status at any time during the 5 year term for cause.


(2) Any of the following instances constitute cause for revoking or not renewing PLP or CLP status:


(i) Violation of the terms of the lender's agreement;


(ii) Failure to maintain PLP or CLP eligibility criteria. The Agency may allow a PLP lender with a loss rate which exceeds the maximum PLP loss rate, to retain its PLP status for a two-year period, if:


(A) The lender documents in writing why the excessive loss rate is beyond their control;


(B) The lender provides a written plan that will reduce the loss rate to the PLP maximum rate within two years from the date of the plan, and


(C) The Agency determines that exceeding the maximum PLP loss rate standard was beyond the control of the lender. Examples include, but are not limited to, a freeze with only local impact, economic downturn in a local area, drop in local land values, industries moving into or out of an area, loss of access to a market, and biological or chemical damage.


(D) The Agency will revoke PLP status if the maximum PLP loss rate is not met at the end of the two-year period, unless a second two year extension is granted under this subsection.


(iii) Knowingly submitting false or misleading information to the Agency;


(iv) Basing a request on information known to be false;


(v) Deficiencies that indicate an inability to process or service Agency guaranteed farm loan programs loans in accordance with this subpart;


(vi) Failure to correct cited deficiencies in loan documents upon notification by the Agency;


(vii) Failure to submit status reports in a timely manner;


(viii) Failure to use forms, or follow credit management systems (for PLP lenders) accepted by the Agency; or


(ix) Failure to comply with the reimbursement requirements of § 762.144(c)(7) and (c)(8).


(3) A lender which has lost PLP or CLP status must be reconsidered for eligibility to continue as a Standard Eligible Lender (for former PLP and CLP lenders), or as a CLP lender (for former PLP lenders) in submitting loan guarantee requests. They may reapply for CLP or PLP status when the problem causing them to lose their status has been resolved.



---

[N] [64 FR 7378, Feb. 12, 1999; 64 FR 38298, July 16, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 56107, Sept. 26, 2005; 71 FR 43957, Aug. 3, 2006; 75 FR 54013, Sept. 3, 2010; 77 FR 41256, July 13, 2012]




