# ยง 982.507   Rent to owner: Reasonable rent.

(a) *PHA determination.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the PHA may not approve a lease until the PHA determines that the initial rent to owner is a reasonable rent.


(2) The PHA must redetermine the reasonable rent:


(i) Before any increase in the rent to owner;


(ii) If there is a 10 percent decrease in the published FMR in effect 60 days before the contract anniversary (for the unit size rented by the family) as compared with the FMR in effect 1 year before the contract anniversary.


(iii) If directed by HUD.


(3) The PHA may also redetermine the reasonable rent at any other time.


(4) At all times during the assisted tenancy, the rent to owner may not exceed the reasonable rent as most recently determined or redetermined by the PHA.


(b) *Comparability.* The PHA must determine whether the rent to owner is a reasonable rent in comparison to rent for other comparable unassisted units. To make this determination, the PHA must consider:


(1) The location, quality, size, unit type, and age of the contract unit; and


(2) Any amenities, housing services, maintenance and utilities to be provided by the owner in accordance with the lease.


(c) *Units assisted by low-income housing tax credits or assistance under HUD's HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) program.* (1) *General.* For a unit receiving low-income housing tax credits (LIHTCs) pursuant to section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or receiving assistance under HUD's HOME Program (for which the regulations are found in 24 CFR part 92), a rent comparison with unassisted units is not required if the voucher rent does not exceed the rent for other LIHTC- or HOME-assisted units in the project that are not occupied by families with tenant-based assistance.


(2) *LIHTC.* If the rent requested by the owner exceeds the LIHTC rents for non-voucher families, the PHA must perform a rent comparability study in accordance with program regulations and the rent shall not exceed the lesser of the:


(i) Reasonable rent as determined pursuant to a rent comparability study; and


(ii) The payment standard established by the PHA for the unit size involved.


(3) *HOME Program.* [Reserved]


(d) *Owner certification of rents charged for other units.* By accepting each monthly housing assistance payment from the PHA, the owner certifies that the rent to owner is not more than rent charged by the owner for comparable unassisted units in the premises. The owner must give the PHA information requested by the PHA on rents charged by the owner for other units in the premises or elsewhere.



---

[N] [63 FR 23861, Apr. 30, 1998. Redesignated at 64 FR 26648, May 14, 1999; 79 FR 36164, June 25, 2014; 81 FR 80583, Nov. 16, 2016]




