# § 362.10   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart, the definitions provided in § 362.2 apply. Additionally, the following definitions apply to this subpart:


(a) *Affiliate* has the same meaning as provided in subpart B of this part. 


(b) *Corporate debt securities not of investment grade* means any corporate debt security that when acquired was not rated among the four highest rating categories by at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization. The term shall not include any obligation issued or guaranteed by a corporation that may be held by a Federal savings association without limitation as to percentage of assets under subparagraphs (D), (E), or (F) of section 5(c)(1) of HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1464(c)(1) (D), (E), (F)).


(c) *Insured state savings association* means any state-chartered savings association insured by the FDIC.


(d) *Qualified affiliate* means, in the case of a stock insured state savings association, an affiliate other than a subsidiary or an insured depository institution. In the case of a mutual savings association, “qualified affiliate” means a subsidiary other than an insured depository institution provided that all of the savings association's investments in, and extensions of credit to, the subsidiary are deducted from the savings association's capital.


(e) *Service corporation* means any corporation the capital stock of which is available for purchase by savings associations.



---

[N] [63 FR 66326, Dec. 1, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 1029, Jan. 5, 2001]




