# § 721.11014   Substituted heteromonocycle, telomer with substituted carbomonocycles, substituted alkyl ester (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted heteromonocycle, telomer with substituted carbomonocycles, substituted alkyl ester (PMN P-16-369) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (3), and (4), (a)(6) (particulate), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), and (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an APF of at least 50 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R-100, or P-100 filter(s).


(B) Any NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece and equipped with HEPA filters.


(C) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator equipped with a full facepiece.


(D) Any NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece (half or full facepiece).


(E) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) equipped with a hood or helmet or a full facepiece.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1) (lung effects), (g)(1) (sensitization), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), and (v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance to contain residuals greater than 0.1 weight percent of chemicals described in the 5(e) consent order. It is a significant new use to sell the substance for “consumer use” or for “commercial uses” (as the term is defined at § 721.3) when the “saleable goods or service” could introduce the substance into a “consumer” setting (as that term is defined in § 721.3).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48653, Oct. 19, 2017]




