# ยง 106.210   OCS Facility Security Officer (FSO).

(a) *General.* (1) The FSO may perform other duties within the owner's or operator's organization, provided he or she is able to perform the duties and responsibilities required of the FSO of each such OCS facility.


(2) The same person may serve as the FSO for more than one OCS facility, provided the facilities are within a reasonable proximity to each other. If a person serves as the FSO for more than one OCS facility, the name of each OCS facility for which he or she is the FSO must be listed in the Facility Security Plan (FSP) of each OCS facility for which he or she is the FSO.


(3) The FSO may assign security duties to other OCS facility personnel; however, the FSO remains responsible for these duties.


(4) The FSO must maintain a TWIC. 


(b) *Qualifications.* The FSO must have general knowledge, through training or equivalent job experience, in the following:


(1) Those items listed in ยง 106.205(b), and as appropriate ยง 106.205(c), of this part;


(2) OCS facility layout;


(3) The FSP and related procedures; and


(4) Operation, testing and maintenance of security equipment and systems.


(c) *Responsibilities.* In addition to any other responsibilities specified elsewhere in this part, the FSO must, for each OCS facility for which he or she has been designated:


(1) Regularly inspect the OCS facility to ensure that security measures are maintained in compliance with this part;


(2) Ensure the maintenance of and supervision of the implementation of the FSP, and any amendments to the FSP, in compliance with this part;


(3) Ensure the coordination and handling of stores and industrial supplies in compliance with this part;


(4) Where applicable, propose modifications to the FSP to the Company Security Officer (CSO);


(5) Ensure that any problems identified during audits or inspections are reported to the CSO, and promptly implement any corrective actions;


(6) Ensure security awareness and vigilance on board the OCS facility;


(7) Ensure adequate security training for OCS facility personnel in compliance with this part;


(8) Ensure the reporting and recording of all security incidents in compliance with this part;


(9) Ensure the coordinated implementation of the FSP with the CSO;


(10) Ensure that security equipment is properly operated, tested, calibrated and maintained in compliance with this part;


(11) Ensure consistency between security requirements and the proper treatment of OCS facility personnel affected by those requirements;


(12) Ensure that occurrences that threaten the security of the OCS facility are recorded and reported to the CSO;


(13) Ensure that when changes in the MARSEC Level are attained they are recorded and reported to the CSO, OCS facility owner or operator, and the cognizant District Commander; and


(14) Have prompt access to a copy of the FSA, along with an approved copy of the FSP.


(15) Ensure the TWIC program is properly implemented.



---

[N] [USCG-2003-14759, 68 FR 39345, July 1, 2003, as amended by USCG-2006-24196, 72 FR 3585, Jan. 25, 2007]




