# § 27.268   Revocation of eligibility for CBMA tax benefits.

(a) *Revocation of foreign producer's eligibility.* A foreign producer who provides erroneous or fraudulent information that the appropriate TTB officer determines is material to the eligibility of the foreign producer to assign CBMA tax benefits under § 27.262 may have such eligibility revoked, for a period not to exceed three calendar years following the year of revocation, under the procedures set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. If the foreign producer has previously had its eligibility revoked under this section, any subsequent revocation may instead be permanent. In any case where a criminal conviction results from the foreign producer's providing of erroneous or fraudulent information as described above, eligibility will be permanently revoked.


(b) *Notice of contemplated revocation.* Where the appropriate TTB officer has reason to believe that a foreign producer, including anyone acting on behalf of a foreign producer, has provided erroneous or fraudulent information as described in paragraph (a) of this section, such officer will provide a written notice of contemplated revocation to the foreign producer. Such notice will set forth the facts and analysis supporting the contemplated revocation, as well as the period of contemplated revocation. Written notice will be provided electronically to persons authorized to act on behalf of the foreign producer within the online foreign producer registration and assignment system as provided in § 27.260.


(c) *Response to contemplated revocation.* A foreign producer in receipt of a notice of contemplated revocation, or its representative, may submit a written response to the appropriate TTB officer explaining why the foreign producer believes the information at issue was not erroneous or fraudulent, or why such information is not material to the foreign producer qualifying for CBMA tax benefits. This response must be submitted within 45 days of receipt of the written notice of contemplated revocation and must be submitted electronically through means specified in such notice. Any representative of the foreign producer in these proceedings must be authorized by the foreign producer pursuant to a duly executed power of attorney or other document deemed acceptable to the appropriate TTB officer. If the foreign producer does not submit a response within 45 days, the appropriate TTB officer will issue an order of revocation as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Revocation determination.* Following receipt of a foreign producer's response to a contemplated revocation, the appropriate TTB officer will consider the arguments raised in the response and issue an order either dismissing the contemplated revocation or imposing a revocation as authorized under paragraph (a) of this section. Any order imposing revocation will set forth the facts and analysis supporting the revocation, taking into consideration any response provided by the foreign producer under paragraph (c) of this section. The order will be provided electronically to the foreign producer or the foreign producer's representative in the matter.


(e) *Review*—(1) *Appeal.* A foreign producer may appeal an order of revocation issued under paragraph (d) of this section by submitting a written appeal to the appropriate TTB officer within 45 days of receipt of such order. The appeal must explain why the foreign producer believes its revocation is in error, supported by facts and analysis. The appeal must be submitted electronically through the means specified in the order of revocation. The appropriate TTB officer will issue a final decision by notifying the foreign producer within 90 days of receipt of the appeal whether the appeal is granted or denied, and the reasons for the determination. The appropriate TTB officer may extend this period of time once by an additional 90 days if the appropriate TTB officer requires additional time to consider the issues presented by an appeal and must notify the foreign producer of the extension within the initial 90-day period. If the appropriate TTB officer fails to issue a decision granting or denying the appeal within the applicable deadline, the appeal is denied and such denial will be considered a final decision.


(2) *Judicial review.* A final decision from the appropriate TTB officer following appeal is required prior to application to the Federal courts for review of any order of revocation.


(f) *Notice to affected importers.* In any instance where an order imposing revocation of a foreign producer's eligibility for CBMA tax benefits is issued under paragraph (d) of this section, the appropriate TTB officer will notify any importer having an assignment of CBMA tax benefits from that foreign producer of the revocation. In the event that the revocation is appealed and the appeal is granted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the appropriate TTB officer will notify any importer having an assignment from that foreign producer of the dismissal of such revocation.










