# § 9601.102   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


(a) *Employment.* (1) For purposes of this section, “employment” means any form of non-Federal employment, business relationship, or activity involving the provision of personal services by the employee, whether or not for compensation. It includes, but is not limited to, services as an officer, director, employee, agent, advisor, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher, or speaker. It includes a writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product.


(2) The definition of employment does not include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service or civic organization, unless:


(i) The employee will receive compensation other than reimbursement of expenses; or


(ii) The organization's activities are devoted substantially to matters relating to the employee's official duties as defined in 5 CFR 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(B) through (E).


(b) *Credit union-related entities.* (1) Credit union includes insured and non-insured credit unions as defined in Section 102(7) of the Federal Credit Union Act (the Act), 12 U.S.C. 1752(7).


(2) Credit union service organization as defined in § 741.222(a) of the NCUA Regulations, 12 CFR 741.222(a).


(3) Credit union trade groups include credit union trade organizations whose membership is comprised of credit union, CUSO, state credit union regulators, state credit union organizations, and officials and employees of such organizations.


(4) Other credit union-related entities may be defined pursuant to Agency Instruction.




