# § 97.53   Recordation of NO

(a) The Administrator will record the NO_X_ allowances for 2004 for a NO_X_ Budget unit allocated under subpart E of this part in the unit's compliance account, except for NO_X_ allowances under § 97.4(b)(4)(ii) or § 97.5(c)(2), which will be recorded in the general account specified by the owners and operators of the unit. The Administrator will record NO_X_ allowances for 2004 for a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit in the unit's compliance account as allocated under § 97.88(a). 


(b) By May 1, 2003, the Administrator will record the NO_X_ allowances for 2005 for a NO_X_ Budget unit allocated under subpart E of this part in the unit's compliance account, except for NO_X_ allowances under § 97.4(b)(4)(ii) or § 97.5(c)(2), which will be recorded in the general account specified by the owners and operators of the unit. The Administrator will record NO_X_ allowances for 2005 for a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit in the unit's compliance account as allocated under § 97.88(a). 


(c) By May 1, 2003, the Administrator will record the NO_X_ allowances for 2006 for a NO_X_ Budget unit allocated under subpart E of this part in the unit's compliance account, except for NO_X_ allowances under § 97.4(b)(4)(ii) or § 97.5(c)(2), which will be recorded in the general account specified by the owners and operators of the unit. The Administrator will record NO_X_ allowances for 2006 for a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit in the unit's compliance account as allocated under § 97.88(a). 


(d) By May 1, 2004, the Administrator will record the NO_X_ allowances for 2007 for a NO_X_ Budget unit allocated under subpart E of this part in the unit's compliance account, except for NO_X_ allowances under § 97.4(b)(4)(ii) or § 97.5(c)(2), which will be recorded in the general account specified by the owners and operators of the unit. The Administrator will record NO_X_ allowances for 2007 for a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit in the unit's compliance account as allocated under § 97.88(a). 


(e) Each year starting with 2005, after the Administrator has made all deductions from a NO_X_ Budget unit's compliance account and the overdraft account pursuant to § 97.54 (except deductions pursuant to § 97.54(d)(2)), the Administrator will record: 


(1) NO_X_ allowances, in the compliance account, as allocated to the unit under subpart E of this part for the third year after the year of the control period for which such deductions were or could have been made; 


(2) NO_X_ allowances, in the general account specified by the owners and operators of the unit, as allocated under § 97.4(b)(4)(ii) or § 97.5(c)(2) for the third year after the year of the control period for which such deductions are or could have been made; and 


(3) NO_X_ allowances, in the compliance account, as allocated to the unit under § 97.88(a). 


(f) *Serial numbers for allocated NO*_X_*allowances.* When allocating NO_X_ allowances to a NO_X_ Budget unit and recording them in an account, the Administrator will assign each NO_X_ allowance a unique identification number that will include digits identifying the year for which the NO_X_ allowance is allocated.



---

[N] [65 FR 2727, Jan. 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 21530, Apr. 30, 2002] 




