# § 400.11   Award of Grants to States.

(a) *Quarterly grants.* Subject to the availability of funds (and in accordance with the limitations of subpart J of this part), ORR will make two types of quarterly grants to eligible States:


(1) *Grants for cash assistance, medical assistance, and related administrative costs (“CMA grants”),* for the following purposes: Cash assistance provided by a State or local public agency under the program of temporary assistance for needy families (TANF) under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act, under the adult assistance programs (AABD, AB, APTD, or OAA) in the territories, or under section 412(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; foster care maintenance provided under part E of title IV of the Social Security Act; State supplementary payments under section 1616(a) of the Social Security Act or section 212 of the Pub. L. 93-66; medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act or under section 412(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; assistance and services to unaccompanied minors under section 412(d)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; and cash or medical assistance provided under a public assistance program established under authority other than Federal law and under which such assistance is generally available to needy individuals or families in similar circumstances within the State; and 


(2) *Grants for social services, as set forth in this part.* ORR will compute the amount of the quarterly awards based on documents submitted by the State agency in accordance with this section and such other pertinent facts as the Director may find necessary.


(b) *Form and manner of State application for grant award*—(1) *CMA grants.* For quarterly grants for cash assistance, medical assistance, and related administrative costs, including assistance and services to unaccompanied minors (“CMA grants”), a State must submit to the Director, or designee, yearly estimates for reimbursable costs for the fiscal year, identified by type of expense, and a justification statement in support of the estimates no later than 45 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the Director.


(2) *Grants for refugee social services.* For quarterly grants for refugee social services, a State must submit to the Director, or designee, an annual plan developed on the basis of local consultative process on a form and at a time prescribed by the Director.


(3) *Quarterly adjustments.* If a State revises its estimates required in paragraph (b)(1), it must submit to the Director, or designee, the revisions, accompanied by a justification statement, no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the quarter in which the revision or adjustment applies.


(c) *Financial status report.* A State must submit to the Director, or designee, a financial status report described in § 75.341 of this title, no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter. Final financial reports must be submitted in accordance with the requirements described in § 400.210.


(d) *Review.* ORR will determine whether the State's description of services, estimates, other relevant information, and any adjustments to be made for prior periods meet the requirements under this part, and will compute the quarterly award.


(e) *Grant award.* (1) ORR will transmit to the State the grant award form showing, by type of assistance, the amount of the award. 


(2) The State may draw funds, under the Department's Payment Management System (PMS), as needed, to meet the Federal share of disbursements.



---

[N] [51 FR 3913, Jan. 30, 1986, as amended at 54 FR 5475, Feb. 3, 1989; 60 FR 33602, June 28, 1995; 65 FR 15443, Mar. 22, 2000; 81 FR 3021, Jan. 20, 2016]




