# § 53.111   Tax on use by manufacturer, producer, or importer.

(a) *In general.* Section 4218 of the Code imposes tax in respect of certain uses of articles by the actual manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof. This section also applies in respect of the use of articles by any other person who, pursuant to a provision of chapter 32 of the Code, is considered to be, or is treated as, the manufacturer or producer of the articles. See, for example, section 4223 of the Code relating to articles purchased tax free for use in further manufacture.


(b) *Taxable articles in general*—(1) *Application of tax.* If the manufacturer, producer, or importer of an article taxable under chapter 32 of the Code uses the article for any purpose other than that indicated in paragraph (b) (3) of this section, he shall be liable for tax with respect to the use of such article in the same manner as if the article were sold by him.


(2) *Taxable use in manufacturer of nontaxable articles*—(i) *In general.* In the case of an article to which paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies, tax attaches when the manufacturer, producer, or importer of the articles uses it as material in the manufacture or production of, or as a component part of, another article which is not taxable under chapter 32 of the Code, regardless of the disposition made of such other article. (See paragraph (c) of § 53.115 for computation of tax on such use.)


(ii) *Types of use in manufacture of nontaxable articles.* Taxable use may consist of the incorporation of a taxable article into a nontaxable article. Taxable use may also result from the combining of a taxable article (or the components thereof) with a nontaxable article (or the components of a nontaxable article) resulting in a combination end article which itself is not taxable. Although the taxable article may not be a completely separable unit, within the contemplation of the law a taxable article has been produced and incorporated in the combination end article.


(3) *Nontaxable use in manufacturer of taxable articles.* The tax on the use of an article to which paragraph (b)(1) of this section has application shall not apply if the article is used by the manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof as material in the manufacturer or production of, or as a component part of, another article taxable under chapter 32 of the Code to be manfactured or produced by him. It is immaterial what disposition is made of such other article.


(c) *Use after lease.* If the manufacturer, producer, or importer of a taxable article leases such article and thereafter uses the article, he incurs liability for tax on such use as provided in these regulations to the same extent as if the article were sold after being leased. See section 4217 of the Code and the regulations thereunder in this subpart for application and computation of tax in case of leased articles.


(d) *Time of application of tax.* In the case of a taxable use of an article by the manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof, the tax attaches at the time such use begins. If tax applies by reason of the sale of an article by the manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof on or in connection with his sale of another article, the tax attaches at the time of the sale of such other article.


(e) *Exemptions because of other statutory provisions.* Tax does not apply on the use of an article by the manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof if under the applicable provisions of the Code the sale of the article for a similar use would not be subject to tax. Also, tax need not be paid with respect to the use of an article by the manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof if such use would qualify, under the provisions of section 6416(b) of the Code, for credit or refund of the tax paid.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-308, 56 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1991]


