# § 404.2103   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Accept the beneficiary as a client for VR services* means that the State VR agency determines that the individual is eligible for VR services and places the individual into an active caseload status for development of an individualized written rehabilitation program.


*Act* means the Social Security Act, as amended.


*Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Social Security or the Commissioner's designee.


*Disability* means “disability” or “blindness” as defined in sections 216(i) and 223 of the Act.


*Disability beneficiary* means a disabled individual who is entitled to benefits under section 223, 202(d), 202(e) or 202(f) of the act or is continuing to receive payment under section 225(b) of the Act after his or her disabling physical or mental impairments have ceased.


*Medical recovery* for purposes of this subpart is established when a beneficiary's disability entitlement ceases for any medical reason (other than death). The determination of medical recovery is made by the Commissioner in deciding a beneficiary's continuing entitlement to benefits.


*Place the beneficiary into an extended evaluation process* means that the State VR agency determines that an extended evaluation of the individual's VR potential is necessary to determine whether the individual is eligible for VR services and places the individual into an extended evaluation status.


*SGA* means substantial gainful activity performed by an individual as defined in §§ 404.1571 through 404.1575 or § 404.1584 of this subpart.


*State* means any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, or Guam. It includes the State VR agency.


*Trust Funds* means the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.


*Vocational rehabilitation services* has the meaning assigned to it under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.


*VR agency* means an agency of the State which has been designated by the State to provide vocational rehabilitation services under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.


*Waiting period* means a five consecutive calendar month period throughout which an individual must be under a disability and which must be served before disability benefits can be paid (see § 404.315(d)).


*We, us and our* refer to the Social Security Administration (SSA).



---

[N] [48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 8454, Mar. 8, 1990; 59 FR 11912, Mar. 15, 1994; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003; 83 FR 62456, Dec. 4, 2018]




