# § 49.4281-1   Small aircraft on nonestablished lines.

(a) *In general.* Amounts paid for the transportation of persons on a small aircraft of the type sometimes referred to as air taxis shall be exempt from the tax imposed under section 4261 of the Internal Revenue Code provided the aircraft has a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 6,000 pounds or less determined as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The exemption does not apply, however, when the aircraft is operated on an established line or when the aircraft is a jet aircraft.


(b) *Maximum certificated takeoff weight.* The term *maximum certificated takeoff weight* means the maximum certificated takeoff weight shown in the type certificate or airworthiness certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration.


(c) *Established line.* The term “operated on an established line” means operated with some degree of regularity between definite points. It does not necessarily mean that strict regularity of schedule is maintained; that the full run is always made; that a particular route is followed; or that intermediate stops are restricted. The term implies that the person rendering the service maintains and exercises control over the direction, route, time, number of passengers carried, etc. An aircraft is not considered as operated on an established line at any time during which the aircraft is being operated on a flight the sole purpose of which is sightseeing.


(d) *Jet aircraft.* For purposes of this section, the term *jet aircraft* does not include any aircraft which is a rotorcraft (such as a helicopter) or propeller aircraft.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to amounts paid on and January 19, 2021. For rules that apply before that date, *see* 26 CFR part 49, revised as of April 1, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 6430, 24 FR 9665, Dec. 3, 1959. Redesignated by T.D. 6618, 27 FR 11226, Nov. 14, 1962. Further redesignated and amended by T.D. 9948, 86 FR 5007, Jan. 19, 2021]




