# § 760.1709   Payment limitation and AGI.

(a) Per calendar year, a person or legal entity, other than a joint venture or general partnership, is eligible to receive, directly or indirectly payments of not more than $125,000 according to the provisions in § 760.1507(b)(1); or not more than $250,000 according to the provisions in § 760.1507(b)(2) if at least 75 percent of the person's or legal entity's average adjusted gross income is average adjusted gross farm income and the applicant provides the required certification(s) and documentation. Payments made to a joint venture or general partnership cannot exceed an amount determined by multiplying the maximum payment limitation by the number of persons and legal entities that comprise the first-level ownership of the joint venture or general partnership.


(b) To certify the average adjusted gross farm income, a person or legal entity, including all members with an ownership interest in a legal entity, general partnership, or joint venture, must provide the following:


(1) A certification in the manner prescribed by FSA from the person or legal entity that the average adjusted gross farm income of the person or legal entity is at least 75 percent of the average adjusted gross income; and


(2) A certification in the manner prescribed by FSA from a licensed certified public accountant or attorney that the average adjusted gross farm income of the person or legal entity is at least 75 percent of the average adjusted gross income.


(c) A new legal entity will have its adjusted gross farm income averaged only for those years for which it was in business; however, a new legal entity will not be considered “new” to the extent it takes over an existing operation and has any elements of common ownership interest and land with the preceding person or legal entity, or with persons or legal entities with an interest in the “old” legal entity. When there is such commonality, income of the previous person or legal entity will be averaged with that of the “new” legal entity for the base period.


(d) For a person filing a joint federal tax return, the certification of average adjusted gross farm income will be reported as if the person had filed a separate federal tax return and the calculation is consistent with the information supporting the filed joint return.


(e) All persons and legal entities are subject to an audit by FSA of any information submitted for the purpose of increasing the program's payment limitation. As a part of this audit, income tax returns may be requested, and if requested, must be supplied by all related persons and legal entities. In addition to any other requirement under any Federal statute, relevant Federal income tax returns and documentation must be retained a minimum of 2 years after the end of the calendar year corresponding to the year for which payments or benefits are requested. Failure to provide necessary and accurate information to verify compliance will result in ineligibility for Milk Loss Program benefits.


(f) The direct attribution provisions in § 760.1507 apply for both payment limitation as well as in determining average adjusted gross farm income as defined and used in this subpart.



---

[N] [88 FR 62291, Sept. 11, 2023]






