# § 60.392a   Standards for volatile organic compounds.

You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.


(a) *Emission limitations.* On and after the date on which the initial performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, you must not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility VOC emissions in excess of the limits in paragraph (a)(1) through (4) of this section. The emission limitations listed in this paragraph (a) of this section shall apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction in the part 60 general provisions in subpart A to this part.


(1) For each EDP prime coat operation:


(i) 0.027 kilogram of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when R_T_ is 0.16 or greater.


(ii) 0.027 × 350_(0.160−RT)_ kg of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when RT is greater than or equal to 0.040 and less than 0.160.


(iii) When R_T_ is less than 0.040, there is no emission limit.


(2) 0.027 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids (0.23 pounds per gallon of applied coating solids) from each non-EDP prime coat operation.


(3) 0.35 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids (2.92 pounds per gallon of applied coating solids) from each guide coat operation.


(4) 0.42 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids (3.53 pounds per gallon of applied coating solids) from each topcoat operation.


(b) *Work practices for storage, mixing, and conveying.* You must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize VOC emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by, all coating operations for which emission limits are established under § 60.392a(a). The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.


(1) All VOC-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.


(2) The risk of spills of VOC-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.


(3) VOC-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.


(4) Mixing vessels, other than day tanks equipped with continuous agitation systems, which contain VOC-containing coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.


(5) Emissions of VOC must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.


(c) *Work practices for cleaning and purging.* You must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize VOC emissions from cleaning and from purging of equipment associated with all coating operations for which emission limits are established under paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) The plan shall, at a minimum, address each of the operations listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section in which you use VOC-containing materials or in which there is a potential for emission of VOC.


(i) The plan must address vehicle body wipe emissions through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Use of solvent-moistened wipes.


(B) Keeping solvent containers closed when not in use.


(C) Keeping wipe disposal/recovery containers closed when not in use.


(D) Use of tack-wipes.


(ii) The plan must address coating line purging emissions through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Air/solvent push-out.


(B) Capture and reclaim or recovery of purge materials (excluding applicator nozzles/tips).


(C) Block painting to the maximum extent feasible.


(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC solvents for purge.


(iii) The plan must address emissions from flushing of coating systems through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Keeping solvent tanks closed.


(B) Recovering and recycling solvents.


(C) Keeping recovered/recycled solvent tanks closed.


(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC solvents.


(iv) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of spray booth grates through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Controlled burn-off.


(B) Rinsing with high-pressure water (in place).


(C) Rinsing with high-pressure water (off line).


(D) Use of spray-on masking or other type of liquid masking.


(E) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.


(v) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of spray booth walls through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(v)(A) through (E) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Use of masking materials (contact paper, plastic sheet, or other similar type of material).


(B) Use of spray-on masking.


(C) Use of rags and manual wipes instead of spray application when cleaning walls.


(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.


(E) Controlled access to cleaning solvents.


(vi) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of spray booth equipment through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(vi)(A) through (E) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Use of covers on equipment (disposable or reusable).


(B) Use of parts cleaners (off-line submersion cleaning).


(C) Use of spray-on masking or other protective coatings.


(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.


(E) Controlled access to cleaning solvents.


(vii) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of external spray booth areas through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(vii)(A) through (F) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Use of removable floor coverings (paper, foil, plastic, or similar type of material).


(B) Use of manual and/or mechanical scrubbers, rags, or wipes instead of spray application.


(C) Use of shoe cleaners to eliminate coating track-out from spray booths.


(D) Use of booties or shoe wraps.


(E) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.


(F) Controlled access to cleaning solvents.


(viii) The plan must address emissions from housekeeping measures not addressed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(viii)(A) through (C) of this section, or an approved alternative.


(A) Keeping solvent-laden articles (cloths, paper, plastic, rags, wipes, and similar items) in covered containers when not in use.


(B) Storing new and used solvents in closed containers.


(C) Transferring of solvents in a manner to minimize the risk of spills.


(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section, if the type of coatings used in any facility with surface coating operations subject to the requirements of this section are of such a nature that the need for one or more of the practices specified under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section is eliminated, then the plan may include approved alternative or equivalent measures that are applicable or necessary during cleaning of storage, conveying, and application equipment.


(d) *Work practice plan revisions.* The work practice plans developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are not required to be incorporated in your title V permit. Any revisions to the work practice plans developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not constitute revisions to your title V permit.


(e) *Work practice plan retention time.* Copies of the current work practice plans developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as well as plans developed within the preceding 5 years must be available on-site for inspection and copying by the permitting authority.


(f) *Operating limits.* You are not required to meet any operating limits for any coating operation(s) without add-on controls, nor are you required to meet operating limits for any coating operation(s) that do not utilize emission capture systems and add-on controls to comply with the emission limits in § 60.392a(a).


(g) *Operating limits for operations with add-on controls.* Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, for any controlled coating operation(s), you must meet the operating limits specified in table 1 to this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and add-on control systems for affected sources in § 60.390a(a)(1), and you must establish the operating limits during performance tests according to the requirements in § 60.394a. You must meet the operating limits at all times after you establish them.


(h) *Alternative operating limits.* If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in table 1 to this subpart or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 60.13(i).






