# ยง 625.8   Compensation for easements and 30-year contracts.

(a) *Determination of easement payment rates.* (1) NRCS will offer to pay not less than 75 percent, nor more than 100 percent of the fair market value of the enrolled land during the period the land is subject to the easement, less the fair market value of the land encumbered by the easement for permanent easements or easements for the maximum duration allowed under State law.


(2) NRCS will offer to pay not more than 75 percent of the fair market value of the enrolled land, less the fair market value of the land encumbered by the easement for 30-year easements or 30-year contracts.


(b) *Acceptance and use of contributions.* NRCS may accept and use contributions of non-Federal funds to make payments under this section. 


(c) *Acceptance of offered easement or 30-year contract compensation.* (1) NRCS will not acquire any easement or 30-year contract unless the landowner accepts the amount of the payment that is offered by NRCS. The payment may or may not equal the fair market value of the interests and rights to be conveyed by the landowner under the easement or 30-year contract. By voluntarily participating in the program, a landowner waives any claim to additional compensation based on fair market value.


(2) Payments may be made in a single payment or through annual payment, as agreed to between NRCS and the landowner.


(d) If a landowner believes they may be eligible for a bargain sale tax deduction that is the difference between the fair market value of the easement conveyed to the United States and the easement payment made to the landowner, it is the landowner's responsibility to discuss those matters with the Internal Revenue Service. NRCS disclaims any representations concerning the tax implications of any easement or cost-share transaction.


(e) The amount, terms, and conditions of the cost-share assistance will be subject to the following restrictions on the costs of establishing or installing NRCS-approved conservation practices or implementing measures specified in the HFRP restoration plan:


(1) On enrolled land subject to a permanent easement or an easement for the maximum duration allowed under State law, NRCS will offer to pay not less than 75 percent nor more than 100 percent of the actual or__ average cost, and;


(2) On enrolled land subject to a 30-year easement or 30-year contract, NRCS will offer to pay not more than 75 percent of the actual or average cost.


(f) On enrolled land subject to a 10-year cost-share agreement without an associated easement, NRCS will offer to pay not more than 50 percent of the actual or average costs.



---

[N] [75 FR 6546, Feb. 10, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 19703, May 6, 2019]






