# § 412.2   General definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) The general definitions and abbreviations at 40 CFR part 401 apply. 


(b) *Animal Feeding Operation (AFO)* and *Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO)* are defined at 40 CFR 122.23. 


(c) *Fecal coliform* means the bacterial count (Parameter 1) at 40 CFR 136.3 in Table 1A, which also cites the approved methods of analysis. 


(d) *Process wastewater* means water directly or indirectly used in the operation of the CAFO for any or all of the following: spillage or overflow from animal or poultry watering systems; washing, cleaning, or flushing pens, barns, manure pits, or other CAFO facilities; direct contact swimming, washing, or spray cooling of animals; or dust control. Process wastewater also includes any water which comes into contact with any raw materials, products, or byproducts including manure, litter, feed, milk, eggs, or bedding. 


(e) *Land application area* means land under the control of an AFO owner or operator, whether it is owned, rented, or leased, to which manure, litter, or process wastewater from the production area is or may be applied. 


(f) *New source* is defined at 40 CFR 122.2. New source criteria are defined at 40 CFR 122.29(b). 


(g) *Overflow* means the discharge of manure or process wastewater resulting from the filling of wastewater or manure storage structures beyond the point at which no more manure, process wastewater, or storm water can be contained by the structure. 


(h) *Production area* means that part of an AFO that includes the animal confinement area, the manure storage area, the raw materials storage area, and the waste containment areas. The animal confinement area includes but is not limited to open lots, housed lots, feedlots, confinement houses, stall barns, free stall barns, milkrooms, milking centers, cowyards, barnyards, medication pens, walkers, animal walkways, and stables. The manure storage area includes but is not limited to lagoons, runoff ponds, storage sheds, stockpiles, under house or pit storages, liquid impoundments, static piles, and composting piles. The raw materials storage area includes but is not limited to feed silos, silage bunkers, and bedding materials. The waste containment area includes but is not limited to settling basins, and areas within berms and diversions which separate uncontaminated storm water. Also included in the definition of production area is any egg washing or egg processing facility, and any area used in the storage, handling, treatment, or disposal of mortalities. 


(i) *Ten (10)-year, 24-hour rainfall event, 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event,* and *100-year, 24-hour rainfall event* mean precipitation events with a probable recurrence interval of once in ten years, or twenty five years, or one hundred years, respectively, as defined by the National Weather Service in Technical Paper No. 40, “Rainfall Frequency Atlas of the United States,” May, 1961, or equivalent regional or State rainfall probability information developed from this source. 


(j) *Analytical methods.* The parameters that are regulated or referenced in this part and listed with approved methods of analysis in Table 1B at 40 CFR 136.3 are defined as follows: 


(1) *Ammonia (as N)* means ammonia reported as nitrogen. 


(2) *BOD5* means 5-day biochemical oxygen demand. 


(3) *Nitrate (as N)* means nitrate reported as nitrogen. 


(4) *Total dissolved solids* means nonfilterable residue. 


(k) The parameters that are regulated or referenced in this part and listed with approved methods of analysis in Table 1A at 40 CFR 136.3 are defined as follows: 


(1) *Fecal coliform* means fecal coliform bacteria. 


(2) *Total coliform* means all coliform bacteria. 




