# ยง 850.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of IEEPA applies to any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.


(1) A civil penalty may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA, including any provision of this part in an amount not to exceed the greater of:


(i) $250,000, as such amount is adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended (Pub. L. 101-410, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note); or


(ii) An amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.


(2) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation, attempt to violate, conspiracy to violate, or causing of a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA, including any provision of this part, shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.


(b) The Secretary may refer potential criminal violations of the Order, or of this part, to the Attorney General.


(c) The civil penalties provided for in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended (Pub. L. 101-410, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note). Notice of the maximum penalty which may be assessed under this section will be published in the _Federal Register_ and on Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.


(d) The criminal penalties provided for in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.


(e) The penalties available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, and forfeiture of property, available under other applicable law.


(f) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.






