# § 266.501   Applicability.

(a) A healthcare facility that is a very small quantity generator when counting all of its hazardous waste, including both its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and its non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste, remains subject to § 262.14 and is *not* subject to this subpart, except for §§ 266.505 and 266.507 and the optional provisions of § 266.504.


(b) A healthcare facility that is a very small quantity generator when counting all of its hazardous waste, including both its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and its non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste, has the option of complying with § 266.501(d) for the management of its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals as an alternative to complying with § 262.14 and the optional provisions of § 266.504.


(c) A healthcare facility or reverse distributor remains subject to all applicable hazardous waste regulations with respect to the management of its non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste.




(d) With the exception of healthcare facilities identified in paragraph (a) of this section, a healthcare facility is subject to the following in lieu of parts 262 through 265:


(1) Sections 266.502 and 266.505 through 266.508 of this subpart with respect to the management of:


(i) Non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals, and


(ii) Potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals if they are not destined for a reverse distributor.


(2) Sections 266.502(a), 266.503, 266.505 through 266.507, and 266.509 with respect to the management of potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals that are prescription pharmaceuticals and are destined for a reverse distributor.




(e) A reverse distributor is subject to §§ 266.505 through 266.510 of this subpart in lieu of parts 262 through 265 with respect to the management of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.


(f) Hazardous waste pharmaceuticals generated or managed by entities other than healthcare facilities and reverse distributors (*e.g.,* pharmaceutical manufacturers and reverse logistics centers) are not subject to this subpart. Other generators are subject to 40 CFR part 262 for the generation and accumulation of hazardous wastes, including hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.


(g) The following are not subject to 40 CFR parts 260 through 273, except as specified:


(1) Pharmaceuticals that are not solid waste, as defined by § 261.2, because they are legitimately used/reused (*e.g.,* lawfully donated for their intended purpose) or reclaimed.


(2) Over-the-counter pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, or homeopathic drugs that are not solid wastes, as defined by § 261.2, because they have a reasonable expectation of being legitimately used/reused (*e.g.,* lawfully redistributed for their intended purpose) or reclaimed.


(3) Pharmaceuticals being managed in accordance with a recall strategy that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration in accordance with 21 CFR part 7 subpart C. This subpart does apply to the management of the recalled hazardous waste pharmaceuticals after the Food and Drug Administration approves the destruction of the recalled items.


(4) Pharmaceuticals being managed in accordance with a recall corrective action plan that has been accepted by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in accordance with 16 CFR part 1115. This subpart does apply to the management of the recalled hazardous waste pharmaceuticals after the Consumer Product Safety Commission approves the destruction of the recalled items.


(5) Pharmaceuticals stored according to a preservation order, or during an investigation or judicial proceeding until after the preservation order, investigation, or judicial proceeding has concluded and/or a decision is made to discard the pharmaceuticals.


(6) Investigational new drugs for which an investigational new drug application is in effect in accordance with the Food and Drug Administration's regulations in 21 CFR part 312. This subpart does apply to the management of the investigational new drug after the decision is made to discard the investigational new drug or the Food and Drug Administration approves the destruction of the investigational new drug, if the investigational new drug is a hazardous waste.


(7) Household waste pharmaceuticals, including those that have been collected by an authorized collector (as defined by the Drug Enforcement Administration), provided the authorized collector complies with the conditional exemption in §§ 266.506(a)(2) and 266.506(b).





---

[N] [84 FR 5940, Feb. 22, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 54112, Aug. 9, 2023]










