# § 62.65   Procedure for reporting defects and discrepancies.

(a) Mariners should notify the nearest Coast Guard facility immediately of any observed aids to navigation defects or discrepancies. 


(b) The Coast Guard cannot monitor the many thousands of aids in the U.S. Aids to Navigation System simultaneously and continuously. As a result, it is not possible to maintain every aid operating properly and on its charted position at all times. Marine safety will be enhanced if persons finding aids missing, sunk, capsized, damaged, off station, or showing characteristics other than those advertised in the Light List, or other publication, promptly inform the Coast Guard. When making the report to the Coast Guard the mariner should consult the Light List to ensure the correct geographical information is used due to the similarity of names and geographical areas. 


(c) Procedures for reporting defects and discrepancies: 


(1) *Radio messages* should be prefixed “Coast Guard” and transmitted directly to a Government shore radio station listed in Chapter three of Radio Navigation Aids Publication, 117, for relay to the relevant District Commander. 


(2) Telephone, e-mail, or facsimile messages may also be used to advise the nearest Coast Guard unit of defects or discrepancies in aids to navigation.


(3) Via our Web portal at *http://www.navcen.uscg.gov.*


---

[N] [CGD 86-031, 52 FR 42640, Nov. 6, 1987, as amended by USCG-2000-7223, 65 FR 40054, June 29, 2000; USCG-2001-9286, 66 FR 33640, June 25, 2001; USCG-2001-10714, 69 FR 24982, May 5, 2004; USCG-2008-0179, 73 FR 35002, June 19, 2008]




