# ยง 3.303   Designation of a U.S. agent for service.

(a) Individuals must designate a U.S. agent for service within the U.S. in writing to the FAA in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator. Individuals designating a U.S. agent must ensure that the U.S. agent understands the requirements for receiving FAA service on behalf of the individual and is competent to perform that responsibility.


(b) The designation must include the U.S. agent's full name, U.S. agent address, email address, and certification by the individual that the U.S. agent has accepted responsibility for receiving FAA service on behalf of the individual. It may also include the U.S. agent's fax number and phone number.


(c) Individuals must notify the FAA in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator of any change to their U.S. agent designation or the U.S. agent's contact information within 30 days of the change.


(d) Individuals must comply with the requirements listed in this subpart no later than:


(1) July 7, 2025, for holders of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107. These individuals who fail to timely designate a U.S. agent for service and comply with the requirements under this subpart may not exercise the privileges of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107, and an individual aircraft owner's aircraft registration certificate will be considered ineffective; and


(2) April 2, 2025, for applicants of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107. An applicant who fails to designate a U.S. agent for service and comply with the requirements under this subpart shall not be issued a certificate, rating, or authorization under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107.



---

[N] [89 FR 81312, Oct. 8, 2024, as amended by Docket No. FAA-2023-1194; Amt. 3-3A, 90 FR 215, Jan. 3, 2025]














