# § 643.32   What other requirements must a grantee meet?

(a) *Eligibility of participants.* (1) A grantee shall determine the eligibility of each participant in the project at the time that the individual is selected to participate.


(2) A grantee shall determine the status of a low-income individual on the basis of the documentation described in section 402A(e) of the HEA.


(b) *Number of Participants.* For each year of the project period, a grantee must serve at least the number of participants that the Secretary identifies in the _Federal Register_ notice inviting applications for a competition. Through this notice, the Secretary also provides the minimum and maximum grant award amounts for the competition.


(c) *Recordkeeping.* For each participant, a grantee must maintain a record of—


(1) The basis for the grantee's determination that the participant is eligible to participate in the project under § 643.3;


(2) The grantee's needs assessment for the participant;


(3) The services that are provided to the participant; 


(4) The specific educational progress made by the participant as a result of the services; and


(5) To the extent practicable, any services the TS participant receives during the project year from another Federal TRIO program or another federally funded program that serves populations similar to those served under the TS program.


(d) *Project director.* (1) A grantee must employ a full-time project director unless—


(i) The director is also administering one or two additional programs for disadvantaged students operated by the sponsoring institution or agency; or


(ii) The Secretary grants a waiver of this requirement.


(2) The grantee must give the project director sufficient authority to administer the project effectively.


(3) The Secretary waives the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the applicant demonstrates that the project director will be able to effectively administer more than three programs and that this arrangement would promote effective coordination between the TS program and other Federal TRIO Programs (sections 402B through 402F of the HEA) or similar programs funded through other sources.



---

[N] [58 FR 59145, Nov. 5, 1993, as amended at 75 FR 65779, Oct. 26, 2010]




