# ยง 207.103   Charging letter.

(a) *Contents of charging letter.* Each charged party shall be served by the Commission with a copy of a charging letter and any accompanying motion for interim measures, as provided for in 19 CFR 207.106. The charging letter shall include: 


(1) Allegations concerning a prohibited act; 


(2) A citation to ยง 207.100 of this subpart, for a listing of sanctions that may be imposed for a prohibited act; 


(3) A statement that a proceeding has been initiated and that an APA hearing will be held before an administrative law judge; 


(4) A statement that the charged party or his or her attorney may request the issuance of an appropriate administrative protective order to obtain access to the information upon which the charge is based; 


(5) A statement that the charged party has a right to retain an attorney at the charged party's own expense for purposes of representation; and 


(6) A statement that the charged party has the right to request in the response described in ยง 207.104 of this subpart that the proceedings remain confidential to the extent practicable. 


(b) *Service of charging letter.* (1) The charging letter shall be served in a double envelope. The inner envelope shall indicate that it is to be opened only by the addressee. Service of a charging letter shall be made by one of the following methods: 


(i) Mailing a copy by registered or certified mail addressed to the charged party at the party's last known permanent address; or 


(ii) Personal service; or 


(iii) Any other method acceptable under Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 


(2) Service shall be evidenced by a certificate of service signed by the person making such service. 


(c) *Confidentiality of charging letter.* Prior to entry of an order by the administrative law judge under ยง 207.105 of this subpart, the charging letter will be confidential and disclosed only to necessary Commission staff and the charged parties. 


(d) *Amendment of charging letter.* (1) At any time after proceedings have been initiated, the investigative attorney may move for leave to amend or withdraw the charging letter. 


(2) If the administrative law judge determines that the charging letter should be amended to include additional parties, the judge shall issue a recommended determination to that effect. The Commission shall review the recommended determination, and issue a determination granting or denying the motion to amend the charging letter to include additional parties. 


(3) Upon motion, the administrative law judge may grant leave to amend the charging letter for good cause shown upon such conditions as are necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest and the rights of the parties already charged. 


(4) Any amended charging letter shall be served upon all charged parties in the form and manner set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. 




