# § 141.88   Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in source water.

(a) *Sample location, collection methods, and number of samples.* (1) A water system that fails to meet the lead or copper action level on the basis of tap samples collected in accordance with § 141.86 shall collect lead and copper source water samples in accordance with the following requirements regarding sample location, number of samples, and collection methods:


(i) Groundwater systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system after any application of treatment or in the distribution system at a point which is representative of each source after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). The system shall take one sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.


(ii) Surface water systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system after any application of treatment or in the distribution system at a point which is representative of each source after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). The system shall take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant. 


(iii) If a system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions (*i.e.,* when water is representative of all sources being used).


(iv) The State may reduce the total number of samples which must be analyzed by allowing the use of compositing. Compositing of samples must be done by certified laboratory personnel. Composite samples from a maximum of five samples are allowed, provided that if the lead concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to 0.001 mg/L or the copper concentration is greater than or equal to 0.160 mg/L, then either:


(A) A follow-up sample shall be taken and analyzed within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite; or


(B) If duplicates of or sufficient quantities from the original samples from each sampling point used in the composite are available, the system may use these instead of resampling.


(2) Where the results of sampling indicate an exceedance of maximum permissible source water levels established under § 141.83(b)(4), the State may require that one additional sample be collected as soon as possible after the initial sample was taken (but not to exceed two weeks) at the same sampling point. If a State-required confirmation sample is taken for lead or copper, then the results of the initial and confirmation sample shall be averaged in determining compliance with the State-specified maximum permissible levels. Any sample value below the detection limit shall be considered to be zero. Any value above the detection limit but below the PQL shall either be considered as the measured value or be considered one-half the PQL.


(b) *Monitoring frequency after system exceeds tap water action level.* Any system which exceeds the lead or copper action level at the tap for the first time or for the first time after an addition of a new source or installation of source water treatment required under §  141.83(b)(2) shall collect one source water sample from each entry point to the distribution system no later than six months after the end of the tap sampling period during which the lead or copper action level was exceeded. For tap sampling periods that are annual or less frequent, the end of the tap sampling period is September 30 of the calendar year in which the sampling occurs, or if the State has established an alternate monitoring period, the last day of that period. If the State determines that source water treatment is not required under §  141.83(b)(2), the state may waive source water monitoring, for any subsequent lead or copper action level exceedance at the tap, in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(1) The State may waive source water monitoring for lead or copper action level exceedance at the tap under the following conditions:


(i) The water system has already conducted source water monitoring following a previous action level exceedance;


(ii) The State has determined that source water treatment is not required; and


(iii) The system has not added any new water sources.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Monitoring frequency after installation of source water treatment and addition of new source.* (1) Any system which installs source water treatment pursuant to § 141.83(a)(3) shall collect one source water sample from each entry point to the distribution system during two consecutive six-month monitoring periods by the deadline specified in § 141.83(a)(4).


(2) Any system which adds a new source shall collect one source water sample from each entry point to the distribution system until the system demonstrates that finished drinking water entering the distribution system has been maintained below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations specified by the State in § 141.83(b)(4) or the State determines that source water treatment is not needed.


(d) *Monitoring frequency after State specifies maximum permissible source water levels.* (1) A system shall monitor at the frequency specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, in cases where the State specifies maximum permissible source water levels under §  141.83(b)(4).


(i) A water system using only groundwater shall collect samples once during the three-year compliance period (as that term is defined in § 141.2) in effect when the applicable State determination under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is made. Such systems shall collect samples once during each subsequent compliance period. Triennial samples shall be collected every third calendar year.


(ii) A water system using surface water (or a combination of surface and ground water) shall collect samples once during each calendar year, the first annual monitoring period to begin during the year in which the applicable State determination is made under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(2) A system is not required to conduct source water sampling for lead and/or copper if the system meets the action level for the specific contaminant in tap water samples during the entire source water sampling period applicable to the system under paragraph (d)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section.


(e) *Reduced monitoring frequency.* (1) A water system using only groundwater may reduce the monitoring frequency for lead and copper in source water to once during each nine-year compliance cycle (as that term is defined in §  141.2) provided that the samples are collected no later than every ninth calendar year and if the system meets the following criteria:


(i) The system demonstrates that finished drinking water entering the distribution system has been maintained below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations specified by the State in § 141.83(b)(4) during at least three consecutive monitoring periods under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) A water system using surface water (or a combination of surface water and groundwater) may reduce the monitoring frequency in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to once during each nine-year compliance cycle (as that term is defined in §  141.2) provided that the samples are collected no later than every ninth calendar year and if the system meets the following criteria:


(i) The system demonstrates that finished drinking water entering the distribution system has been maintained below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations specified by the State in § 141.83(b)(4) for at least three consecutive years' 


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) A water system that uses a new source of water is not eligible for reduced monitoring for lead and/or copper until concentrations in samples collected from the new source during three consecutive monitoring periods are below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations specified by the State in § 141.83(a)(5).



---

[N] [56 FR 26548, June 7, 1991; 57 FR 28788 and 28789, June 29, 1992, as amended at 65 FR 2012, Jan. 12, 2000; 72 FR 57819, Oct. 10, 2007; 86 FR 4302, Jan. 15, 2021]




