# § 814.9   Procedures for hearing and final decisions.

(a) *Form of hearings*—(1) *General.* After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing. If the hearing will be a review of the written record, the employee shall be notified that he or she should submit evidence and arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date, after which the record shall be closed. The date specified shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation.


(2) *Oral hearing.* An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing, if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (*e.g.,* when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). Where an oral hearing is appropriate, the hearing is not an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing, *e.g.,* the rules of evidence do not apply. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:


(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and arguments;


(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing official interviews the employee; or


(iii) Formal written submissions with an opportunity for oral presentations.


(3) *Paper (documentary) hearing.* If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, the hearing official will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record.


(4) *Record.* The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this part. Witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.


(b) *Written decision*—(1) *Date of decision.* The hearing officer shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the hearing petition was received by the creditor agency, unless the employee requested a delay in the proceedings, in which case the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed.


(2) *Content of decision.* The written decision shall include:


(i) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;


(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions, including a determination whether the employee's petition for hearing was baseless and resulted from an intent to delay creditor agency collection activity; and


(iii) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.






