# ยง 113.40   Dog safety tests.

The safety tests provided in this section shall be conducted when prescribed in a Standard Requirement or in the filed Outline of Production for a biological product recommended for use in dogs. Serials which are not found to be satisfactory when tested pursuant to the procedures in this section may not be released for shipment.


(a) The dog safety test provided in this paragraph shall be used when the Master Seed Virus is tested for safety.


(1) The test animals shall be determined to be susceptible to the virus under test by a method acceptable to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


(2) Each of at least 10 susceptible dogs shall be administered a sample of the Master Seed Virus equivalent to the amount of virus to be used in one dog dose of the vaccine, by the method recommended on the label, and the dog shall be observed each day for 14 days.


(3) If unfavorable reactions attributable to the virus occur in any of the dogs during the observation period, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the Master Seed Virus, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated: *Provided:* That, if the test is not repeated, the Master Seed Virus shall be considered unsatisfactory.


(b) The dog safety test provided in this paragraph shall be used when a serial of vaccine is tested for safety before release.


(1) Each of two healthy dogs shall be administered 10 dog doses by the method recommended on the label and the dogs shall be observed each day for 14 days.


(2) If unfavorable reactions attributable to the biological product occur during the observation period, the serial is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the biological product, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated: *Provided,* That, if the test is not repeated, the serial shall be considered unsatisfactory.



---

[N] [60 FR 14358, Mar. 17, 1995]




