# § 442.2   General definitions.

(a) In addition to the general definitions and abbreviations at 40 CFR part 401, the following definitions shall apply to this part: 


*Chemical cargos* mean, but are not limited to, the following: latex, rubber, plastics, plasticizers, resins, soaps, detergents, surfactants, agricultural chemicals and pesticides, hazardous waste, organic chemicals including: alcohols, aldehydes, formaldehydes, phenols, peroxides, organic salts, amines, amides, other nitrogen compounds, other aromatic compounds, aliphatic organic chemicals, glycols, glycerines, and organic polymers; refractory organic compounds including: ketones, nitriles, organo-metallic compounds containing chromium, cadmium, mercury, copper, zinc; and inorganic chemicals including: aluminum sulfate, ammonia, ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfate, and bleach. Cargos which are not considered to be food grade or petroleum cargos are considered to be chemical cargos. 


*Closed-top hopper* means a completely enclosed storage vessel used to transport dry bulk cargos, either by truck, rail, or barge. Closed-top hoppers are not designed or constructed to carry liquid cargos and are typically used to transport grain, soybeans, soy meal, soda ash, lime, fertilizer, plastic pellets, flour, sugar, and similar commodities or cargos. The cargos transported come in direct contact with the hopper interior. Closed-top hoppers are also commonly referred to as dry bulk hoppers. 


*Drums* mean metal or plastic cylindrical containers with either an open-head or a tight-head (also known as bung-type top) used to hold liquid, solid, or gaseous commodities or cargos which are in direct contact with the container interior. Drums typically range in capacity from 30 to 55 gallons. 


*Food grade cargos* mean edible and non-edible food products. Specific examples of food grade cargos include, but are not limited to, the following: alcoholic beverages, animal by-products, animal fats, animal oils, caramel, caramel coloring, chocolate, corn syrup and other corn products, dairy products, dietary supplements, eggs, flavorings, food preservatives, food products that are not suitable for human consumption, fruit juices, honey, lard, molasses, non-alcoholic beverages, sweeteners, tallow, vegetable oils, and vinegar. 


*Heel* means any material remaining in a tank following unloading, delivery, or discharge of the transported cargo. Heels may also be referred to as container residue, residual materials or residuals. 


*Intermediate bulk container (“IBC” or “Tote”)* means a completely enclosed storage vessel used to hold liquid, solid, or gaseous commodities or cargos which are in direct contact with the container interior. IBCs may be loaded onto flat beds for either truck or rail transport, or onto ship decks for water transport. IBCs are portable containers with 450 liters (119 gallons) to 3000 liters (793 gallons) capacity. IBCs are also commonly referred to as totes or tote bins. 


*Intermodal tank container* means a completely enclosed storage vessel used to hold liquid, solid, or gaseous commodities or cargos which come in direct contact with the tank interior. Intermodal tank containers may be loaded onto flat beds for either truck or rail transport, or onto ship decks for water transport. Containers larger than 3000 liters capacity are considered intermodal tank containers. Containers smaller than 3000 liters capacity are considered IBCs. 


*Ocean/sea tanker* means a self or non-self-propelled vessel constructed or adapted to transport liquid, solid or gaseous commodities or cargos in bulk in cargo spaces (or tanks) through oceans and seas, where the commodity or cargo carried comes in direct contact with the tank interior. There are no maximum or minimum vessel or tank volumes. 


*On-site* means within the contiguous and non-contiguous established boundaries of a facility. 


*Petroleum cargos* mean products of the fractionation or straight distillation of crude oil, redistillation of unfinished petroleum derivatives, cracking, or other refining processes. For purposes of this rule, petroleum cargos also include products obtained from the refining or processing of natural gas and coal. For purposes of this rule, specific examples of petroleum products include but are not limited to: asphalt; benzene; coal tar; crude oil; cutting oil; ethyl benzene; diesel fuel; fuel additives; fuel oils; gasoline; greases; heavy, medium, and light oils; hydraulic fluids, jet fuel; kerosene; liquid petroleum gases (LPG) including butane and propane; lubrication oils; mineral spirits; naphtha; olefin, paraffin, and other waxes; tall oil; tar; toluene; xylene; and waste oil. 


*Pollution Prevention Allowable Discharge* for this subpart means the quantity of/concentrations of pollutants in wastewaters being discharged to publicly owned treatment works after a facility has demonstrated compliance with the Pollutant Management Plan provisions in § 442.15(b), § 442.16(b), § 442.25(b), or § 442.26(b) of this part. 


*Prerinse/presteam* means a rinse, typically with hot or cold water, performed at the beginning of the cleaning sequence to remove residual material from the tank interior. 


*Presolve wash* means the use of diesel, kerosene, gasoline, or any other type of fuel or solvent as a tank interior cleaning solution. 


*Rail Tank Car* means a completely enclosed storage vessel pulled by a locomotive that is used to transport liquid, solid, or gaseous commodities or cargos over railway access lines. A rail tank car storage vessel may have one or more storage compartments and the stored commodities or cargos come in direct contact with the tank interior. There are no maximum or minimum vessel or tank volumes. 


*Tank barge* means a non-self-propelled vessel constructed or adapted primarily to carry liquid, solid or gaseous commodities or cargos in bulk in cargo spaces (or tanks) through rivers and inland waterways, and may occasionally carry commodities or cargos through oceans and seas when in transit from one inland waterway to another. The commodities or cargos transported are in direct contact with the tank interior. There are no maximum or minimum vessel or tank volumes. 


*Tank truck* means a motor-driven vehicle with a completely enclosed storage vessel used to transport liquid, solid or gaseous materials over roads and highways. The storage vessel or tank may be detachable, as with tank trailers, or permanently attached. The commodities or cargos transported come in direct contact with the tank interior. A tank truck may have one or more storage compartments. There are no maximum or minimum vessel or tank volumes. Tank trucks are also commonly referred to as cargo tanks or tankers. 


*Transportation equipment cleaning (TEC) process wastewater* means all wastewaters associated with cleaning the interiors of tanks including: tank trucks; rail tank cars; intermodal tank containers; tank barges; and ocean/sea tankers used to transport commodities or cargos that come into direct contact with the interior of the tank or container. At those facilities that clean tank interiors, TEC process wastewater also includes wastewater generated from washing vehicle exteriors, equipment and floor washings, TEC-contaminated stormwater, wastewater prerinse cleaning solutions, chemical cleaning solutions, and final rinse solutions. TEC process wastewater is defined to include only wastewater generated from a regulated TEC subcategory. Therefore, TEC process wastewater does not include wastewater generated from cleaning hopper cars, or from food grade facilities discharging to a POTW. Wastewater generated from cleaning tank interiors for purposes of shipping products (*i.e.*, cleaned for purposes other than maintenance and repair) is considered TEC process wastewater. Wastewater generated from cleaning tank interiors for the purposes of maintenance and repair on the tank is not considered TEC process wastewater. Facilities that clean tank interiors solely for the purposes of repair and maintenance are not regulated under this part. 


(b) The parameters regulated in this part and listed with approved methods of analysis in Table IB at 40 CFR 136.3, are defined as follows: 


(1) *BOD*_5_ means 5-day biochemical oxygen demand. 


(2) *Cadmium* means total cadmium. 


(3) *Chromium* means total chromium. 


(4) *Copper* means total copper. 


(5) *Lead* means total lead. 


(6) *Mercury* means total mercury 


(7) *Nickel* means total nickel. 


(8) *Oil and Grease (HEM)* means oil and grease (Hexane-Extractable Material) measured by Method 1664. 


(9) *Non-polar material (SGT-HEM)* means the non-polar fraction of oil and grease (Silica Gel Treated Hexane-Extractable Material) measured by Method 1664. 


(10) *TSS* means total suspended solids. 


(11) *Zinc* means total zinc. 


(c) The parameters regulated in this part and listed with approved methods of analysis in Table IC at 40 CFR 136.3, are as follows: 


(1) Fluoranthene. 


(2) Phenanthrene. 




