# ยง 201.51   Proceeding against the loan security.

(a) *Property improvement loans.* (1) After acceleration of maturity on a secured property improvement loan, the lender may either proceed against the loan security under its title I security instrument or make claim under its contract of insurance. If the lender proceeds against the loan security, it may submit an insurance claim only if it complies with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The lender may proceed against the secured property under its Title I security instrument and later submit a claim under its contract of insurance only with the prior approval of the Secretary. The Secretary's decision will be based upon all relevant factors, including but not limited to the appraised value and the amount of all outstanding loan obligations on the property, the estimated costs of foreclosure and disposition, and the anticipated time to dispose of the property. In proceeding against the secured property, the lender shall comply with all applicable State and local laws, and shall take all actions necessary to preserve its rights, if any, to obtain a valid and enforceable deficiency judgment against the borrower. 


(3) After acceleration of maturity on a defaulted unsecured property improvement loan, the lender may submit a claim under its contract of insurance.


(b) *Manufactured home loans.* (1) After acceleration of maturity on a defaulted manufactured home loan, the lender shall proceed against the loan security by foreclosure or repossession, as appropriate, in compliance with all applicable State and local laws, and shall acquire good, marketable title to the property securing the loan. The lender shall also take all actions necessary under State and local law to preserve its rights, if any, to obtain a valid and enforceable deficiency judgment against the borrower.


(2) Prior to foreclosure or repossession, the lender or its agent shall make a visual inspection of the property and prepare a report on its condition for placement in the loan file. If the lender determines that the property has been abandoned, the lender shall take such steps as are permitted under State or local law to repossess or foreclose upon the property, without waiting for the notice period under ยง 201.50(b) to run. 


(3) The lender shall obtain a HUD-approved appraisal of the property as soon after repossession as possible, or earlier with the permission of the borrower. This appraisal shall be performed on the homesite, unless the site owner requires that the home be removed before the appraisal can be performed, and it should reflect the retail value of comparable manufactured homes in similar condition and in the same geographic area where the repossession occurred. When the manufactured home is without hazard insurance and has sustained, at any time prior to the sale or disposition of the home, damage which would normally be covered by such insurance, the lender shall report this situation in submitting an insurance claim, and the appraised value shall be based upon the retail value of comparable homes in good condition and in the same geographic area, without any deduction for such damage. 



---

[N] [50 FR 43523, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 10537, Mar. 14, 1989; 54 FR 36266, Aug. 31, 1989; 56 FR 52435, Oct. 18, 1991]




