# § 398.1   Definitions.

(a) *Migrant worker.* “Migrant worker” means any individual proceeding to or returning from employment in agriculture as defined in section 3(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 203(f)) or section 3121(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 3121(g)).


(b) *Carrier of migrant workers by motor vehicle.* “Carrier of migrant worker by motor vehicle” means any person, including any for-hire, non-exempt motor carrier conducting contract carriage operations as defined in 49 U.S.C. 13102(4)(B), but not including any for-hire, non-exempt motor carrier subject to other requirements in 49 U.S.C. subtitle IV, part B besides contract carriage operations, who or which transports in interstate or foreign commerce at any one time three or more migrant workers to or from their employment by any motor vehicle other than a passenger automobile or station wagon, except a migrant worker transporting himself/herself or his/her immediate family.


(c) *Motor carrier.* “Motor carrier” means any carrier of migrant workers by motor vehicle as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Motor vehicle.* “Motor vehicle” means any vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used upon the highways in the transportation of passengers or property, or any combination thereof, determined by the Administration, but does not include a passenger automobile or station wagon, any vehicle, locomotive, or car operated exclusively on a rail or rails, or a trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed overhead wire, furnishing local passenger transportation in street-railway service.


(e) *Bus.* “Bus” means any motor vehicle designed, constructed, and used for the transportation of passengers: Except passenger automobiles or station wagons other than taxicabs.


(f) *Truck.* “Truck” means any self-propelled motor vehicle except a truck tractor, designed and constructed primarily for the transportation of property.


(g) *Truck tractor.* “Truck tractor” means a self-propelled motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.


(h) *Semitrailer.* “Semitrailer” means any motor vehicle other than a “pole trailer”, with or without motive power designed to be drawn by another motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.


(i) *Driver or operator.* “Driver or operator” means any person who drives any motor vehicle.


(j) *Highway.* “Highway” means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular traffic.



---

[N] [33 FR 19765, Dec. 25, 1968, as amended at 81 FR 68359, Oct. 4, 2016]




