# § 147.1250   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Mississippi, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Mississippi Department of Natural Resources approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on August 25, 1983 (48 FR 38641); the effective date of this program is September 26, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Mississippi. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Mississippi Air and Water Pollution Control Law, Mississippi Code Annotated sections 49-17-1 through 49-17-29 (1972) and Supp. 1983);


(2) Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Pollution Control, Underground Injection Control Program Regulations (adopted February 11, 1982);


(3) Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Pollution Control, State of Mississippi Wastewater Permit Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), Underground Injection Control (UIC), and State Operating Permits (adopted May 1, 1974; amended February 11, 1982).


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on February 8, 1983.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Letter from Attorney General of Mississippi (by Special Assistant Attorney General) to Executive Director, Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, “Re: Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Pollution Control, State Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program; Statement of the Attorney General of the State of Mississippi,” December 3, 1981;


(2) Letter from Attorney General of Mississippi (by Special Assistant Attorney General) to Executive Director, Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, “Re: Authority to Regulate and Take Samples from Underground Injection Systems,” October 18, 1982;


(3) Letter from Attorney General of Mississippi (by Special Assistant Attorney General) to Regional Administrator, EPA Region IV, “Re: Public Participation in State Enforcement Actions, UIC Program,” June 10, 1983.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988]




