# § 180.578   Acetamiprid; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide acetamiprid (1*E*)-*N*-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)methyl]-*N'*-cyano-*N*-methylethanimidamide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below as a result of the application of acetamiprid. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only acetamiprid in or on the following commodities.


(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide acetamiprid (1*E*)-*N*-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)methyl]-*N′*-cyano-*N*-methylethanimidamide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below as a result of the application of acetamiprid. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring acetamiprid and (1*E*)-*N*-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)methyl]-*N′*-cyano-*N*-ethanimidamide in or on the following commodities.


(3) A tolerances of 0.01 ppm is established for residues of the insecticide acetamiprid, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on all food/feed items (other than those covered by a higher tolerance in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section as a result of the use on growing crops) as a result of the application of acetamiprid in food/feed handling establishments. Compliance with the 0.01 ppm tolerance level is to be determined by measuring only acetamiprid (1*E*)-*N*-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)methyl]-*N′*-cyano-*N*-methylethanimidamide in or on the commodities.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* Time-limited tolerances specified in the following table are established for residues of the acetamiprid, (1*E*)-*N*-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)methyl]-*N'*-cyano-*N*-methylethanimidamide, in or on the specified agricultural commodities, resulting from use of the pesticide pursuant to FIFRA section 18 emergency exemptions. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only acetamiprid. The tolerances expire on the date specified in the table.


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* Tolerances with regional registrations are established for residues of the insecticide acetamiprid (1*E*)-*N*-[(6-chloro-3-pyridinyl)methyl]-*N′*-cyano-*N*-methylethanimidamide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below as a result of the application of acetamiprid. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only acetamiprid in or on the following commodities.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [67 FR 14659, Mar. 27, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 52352, Sept. 3, 2003; 70 FR 19293, Apr. 13, 2005; 72 FR 67262, Nov. 28, 2007; 73 FR 2811, Jan. 16, 2008; 75 FR 6582, Feb. 10, 2010; 77 FR 18716, Mar. 28, 2012; 77 FR 43529, July 25, 2012; 78 FR 36676, June 19, 2013; 80 FR 68778, Nov. 6, 2015; 82 FR 17151, Apr. 10, 2017; 85 FR 8441, Feb. 14, 2020]




