# § 402.160   Where records are published.

(a) *Methods of publication.* Materials we are required to publish pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and (a)(2), we publish in one of the following ways:


(1) By publication in the _Federal Register_ of Social Security Administration regulations, and by their subsequent inclusion in the Code of Federal Regulations;


(2) By publication in the _Federal Register_ of appropriate general notices;


(3) By other forms of publication, when incorporated by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register;


(4) By publication in the “Social Security Rulings” of indexes of precedential social security orders and opinions issued in the adjudication of claims, statements of policy and interpretations that have been adopted but have not been published in the _Federal Register_*;* and


(5) By posting in the FOIA library.


(b) *Publication of rulings.* Although not required pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and (a)(2), we publish the following rulings in the _Federal Register_ and by other forms of publication:


(1) We publish Social Security Rulings in the _Federal Register_ under the authority of the Commissioner of Social Security. They are binding on all components of SSA. These rulings represent precedent final opinions and orders and statements of policy and interpretations that we have adopted.


(2) We publish Social Security Acquiescence Rulings in the _Federal Register_ under the authority of the Commissioner of Social Security. They are binding on all components of SSA, except with respect to claims subject to the relitigation procedures established in 20 CFR 404.985(c) and 416.1485(c). For a description of Social Security Acquiescence Rulings, see 20 CFR 404.985(b) and 416.1485(b).






