# § 622.249   Gear restrictions and requirements.

(a) *Maximum trap sizes.* A golden crab trap deployed or possessed in the South Atlantic EEZ may not exceed 64 ft
3 (1.8 m
3) in volume in the northern zone or 48 ft
3 (1.4 m
3) in volume in the middle and southern zones. See § 622.241(b)(1) for specification of the golden crab zones.


(b) *Required escape mechanisms for traps.* (1) A golden crab trap that is used or possessed in the South Atlantic EEZ must have at least one escape gap or escape ring on each of two opposite vertical sides. The minimum allowable inside dimensions of an escape gap are 2.75 by 3.75 inches (7.0 by 9.5 cm); the minimum allowable inside diameter of an escape ring is 4.5 inches (11.4 cm). In addition to the escape gaps—


(i) A golden crab trap constructed of webbing must have an opening (slit) at least 1 ft (30.5 cm) long that may be closed (relaced) only with untreated cotton string no larger than 
3/16 inch (0.48 cm) in diameter.


(ii) A golden crab trap constructed of material other than webbing must have an escape panel or door measuring at least 11
7/8 by 11
7/8 inches (30.2 by 30.2 cm), located on at least one side, excluding top and bottom. The hinges or fasteners of such door or panel must be made of either ungalvanized or uncoated iron wire no larger than 19 gauge (0.04 inch (1.0 mm) in diameter) or untreated cotton string no larger than 
3/16 inch (4.8 mm) in diameter.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Restriction on tending traps.* A golden crab trap in the South Atlantic EEZ may be pulled or tended only by a person (other than an authorized officer) aboard the vessel permitted to fish such pot or trap or aboard another vessel if such vessel has on board written consent of the owner or operator of the vessel so permitted. A vessel with written consent on board must also possess a valid commercial vessel permit for golden crab.




