# § 92.614   Other Federal requirements.

(a) The following Federal requirements contained in subpart H of this part apply to the ADDI:


(1) *Other Federal requirements and nondiscrimination.* The Federal and nondiscrimination requirements contained in § 92.350 apply to the ADDI.


(2) *Environmental review.* The environmental review requirements contained in § 92.352 apply to the ADDI.


(3) *Affirmative marketing.* The affirmative marketing requirements contained in § 92.351(a).


(4) *Labor.* The labor requirements contained in § 92.354 apply to ADDI.


(5) *Lead-based paint.* The lead-based paint prevention and abatement requirements contained in § 92.355 apply to the ADDI.


(6) *Conflict of interest.* The conflict of interest requirements contained in § 92.356 apply to the ADDI.


(7) *Consultant activities.* The requirements regarding consultant activities contained in § 92.358 apply to the ADDI.


(b) The following Federal requirements contained in subpart H of this part do not apply to the ADDI:


(1) *Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.* The displacement, relocation, and acquisition requirements implementing the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655) and the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24, contained in § 92.353 do not apply to ADDI, except the requirements do apply to FY2003 ADDI funds.


(2) *Executive Order 12372.* The requirements of Executive Order 12372 (entitled “Intergovernmental Review) described in § 92.357.



---

[N] [69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 44683, July 24, 2013]




