# § 1005.707   Responsibility for servicing.

(a) *Program compliance.* (1) The Servicer must participate in HUD training on the Section 184 program.


(2) A Servicer shall provide written notification to HUD of any changes that affect qualifications under this subpart within a timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(b) *Sub-Servicer.* (1) If a Servicer elects to use a sub-servicer, the sub-servicer must be an approved Servicer under § 1005.705.


(2) Servicers are responsible for the actions of their sub-servicers. The Holder and Servicer shall remain fully responsible to HUD for Section 184 Guaranteed Loan servicing in accordance with this subpart, and the actions of a sub-Servicer shall be considered the actions of the Servicer.


(c) *Change in Servicer.* (1) When the responsibility of servicing a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is transferred from one Servicer to another, the acquiring Servicer shall assume responsibility for compliance with this part, this includes addressing any noncompliance by the former Servicer.


(2) The former Servicer must notify HUD of the change in Servicer within 15 days of the transfer, or timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(3) The acquiring Servicer shall provide notice to the Borrower of the transfer of servicing in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws that may require such notice.


(4) HUD will hold the acquiring Servicer responsible for errors, omissions, and unresolved HUD review findings on the part of the former Servicer (or former sub-Servicer), discovered after the transfer is reported even when the errors or omissions took place prior to the transfer.


(d) *Transfer of servicing rights.* The Servicer must submit written notification to HUD, within 15 days of transfer, or other time period as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, of the transfer of servicing rights through the acquisition or sale of any Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.


(e) *Reporting requirements.* (1) On a date and manner established by Section 184 Program Guidance, the Servicer shall report to HUD the status of all Section 184 Guaranteed Loans in its Servicing portfolio.


(2) Where applicable, Servicer shall provide an Annual Loan Guarantee Fee reconciliation to the Borrower and HUD, in a manner and timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(3) Servicer must comply with any other reporting requirements under § 1005.903.


(4) The Servicer's failure to submit required reports on time may subject the Holder and/or Servicer to sanctions and civil money penalties pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.


(f) *Business change reporting.* Within a timeframe and on a form as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, the Servicer shall provide written notification to HUD of:


(1) All changes in the Servicer's legal structure, including, but not limited to, mergers, acquisitions, terminations, name, location, control of ownership, and character of business;


(2) Staffing changes related to servicing Section 184 Guaranteed Loans; and


(3) Any sanctions by another supervising entity.


(4) Failure to report changes within the timeframe prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance may result in sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.


(g) *Annual recertification.* (1) All Servicers are subject to annual recertification on a date and manner as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. With each annual recertification, Servicers must submit updated contact information, current FHA or another Federal agency recertification status, and other pertinent documents as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(2) Servicers may request an extension of the recertification deadline in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.


(3) HUD will review the annual recertification submission and may request any further information required to determine recertification. HUD will provide written notification of approval to continue participation in the Section 184 Program or denial. A denial may be appealed pursuant to § 1005.909.


(4) If an annual recertification is not submitted by the reasonable deadline as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, HUD may subject the Servicer to sanctions under § 1005.907.


(h) *Program ineligibility.* Servicer may be deemed ineligible for Section 184 Program participation when HUD becomes aware that the entity or any officer, partner, director, principal, manager or supervisor of the entity was:


(1) Suspended, debarred, under a limited denial of participation (LDP), or otherwise restricted under 2 CFR part 2424, or under similar procedures of any other Federal agency


(2) Indicted for, or have been convicted of, an offense during the 7-year period preceding the date of the application for licensing and registration, or at any time preceding such date of the application, if such indictment or conviction reflects adversely upon the integrity, competency, or fitness to meet the responsibilities of the Servicer to participate in the title I or title II programs of the National Housing Act, or Section 184 Program;


(3) Found to have unresolved findings as a result of HUD or other governmental audit, investigation, or review;


(4) Engaged in business practices that do not conform to generally accepted practices of prudent Servicers or that demonstrate irresponsibility;


(5) Convicted of, or have pled guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony related to participation in the real estate or mortgage Loan industry during the 7-year period preceding the date of the application for licensing and registration, or at any time preceding such date of application, if such felony involved an act of fraud, dishonesty, or a breach of trust or money laundering;


(6) In violation of provisions of the Secure and Fair Enforcement Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101, *et seq.*) or any applicable provision of Tribal or State law; or


(7) In violation of 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a or any other requirement established by HUD.


(i) *Records retention.* Servicers must maintain the servicing case binder for a period of three years beyond the date of satisfaction or maturity date of the Loan, whichever is sooner. However, where there is a payment of Claim, the Claim case binder must be retained for a period of at least five years after the final Claim has been paid. Section 184 Program Guidance shall prescribe additional records retention time depending on the circumstances of the Claim.


(ii) [Reserved]






