# § 86.1806-27   Onboard diagnostics.

Model year 2027 and later vehicles must have onboard diagnostic (OBD) systems as described in this section. OBD systems must generally detect malfunctions in the emission control system, store trouble codes corresponding to detected malfunctions, and alert operators appropriately. Vehicles may optionally comply with the requirements of this section instead of the requirements of § 86.1806-17 before model year 2027.


(a) Vehicles must comply with the 2022 OBD requirements adopted for California as described in this paragraph (a). California's 2022 OBD-II requirements are part of Title 13, section 1968.2 of the California Code of Regulations, operative November 30, 2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 86.1). We may approve your request to certify an OBD system meeting a later version of California's OBD requirements if you demonstrate that it complies with the intent of this section. The following clarifications and exceptions apply for vehicles certified under this subpart:


(1) For vehicles not certified in California, references to vehicles meeting certain California Air Resources Board emission standards are understood to refer to the corresponding EPA emission standards for a given family, where applicable. Use good engineering judgment to correlate the specified standards with the bin standards that apply under this subpart.


(2) Vehicles must comply with OBD requirements throughout the useful life as specified in § 86.1805. If the specified useful life is different for evaporative and exhaust emissions, the useful life specified for evaporative emissions applies for monitoring related to fuel-system leaks and the useful life specified for exhaust emissions applies for all other parameters.


(3) The purpose and applicability statements in 13 CCR 1968.2(a) and (b) do not apply.


(4) The anti-tampering provisions in 13 CCR 1968.2(d)(1.4) do not apply.


(5) The requirement to verify proper alignment between the camshaft and crankshaft described in 13 CCR 1968.2(e)(15.2.1)(C) applies only for vehicles equipped with variable valve timing.


(6) The deficiency provisions described in paragraph (c) of this section apply instead of 13 CCR 1968.2(k).




(7) Apply thresholds for exhaust emission malfunctions from Tier 4 vehicles based on the thresholds calculated for the corresponding bin standards in the California LEV program as prescribed for the latest model year in 13 CCR 1968.2(d). For example, for Tier 4 Bin 10 standards, apply the threshold that applies for the LEV standards. For cases involving Tier 4 standards that have no corresponding bin standards from the California LEV program, use the monitor threshold for the next highest LEV bin. For example, for Tier 4 Bin 5 and Bin 10 standards, apply a threshold of 50 mg/mile (15 mg/mile × 3.33). You may apply thresholds that are more stringent than we require under this paragraph (a)(7).




(8) Apply thresholds and testing requirements as specified in 40 CFR 1036.110(b)(5), (6) and (11) for engines certified to emission standards under 40 CFR part 1036.


(b) For vehicles with installed compression-ignition engines that are subject to standards and related requirements under 40 CFR 1036.104 and 1036.111, you must comply with the following additional requirements:


(1) Make parameters related to engine derating and other inducements available for reading with a generic scan tool as specified in 40 CFR 1036.110(b)(9)(vi).


(2) Design your vehicles to display information related to engine derating and other inducements in the cab as specified in 40 CFR 1036.110(c)(1) and 1036.601(c).


(c) You may ask us to accept as compliant a vehicle that does not fully meet specific requirements under this section. Such deficiencies are intended to allow for minor deviations from OBD standards under limited conditions. We expect vehicles to have functioning OBD systems that meet the objectives stated in this section. The following provisions apply regarding OBD system deficiencies:


(1) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, we will not approve a deficiency that involves the complete lack of a major diagnostic monitor, such as monitors related to exhaust aftertreatment devices, oxygen sensors, air-fuel ratio sensors, NO_X_ sensors, engine misfire, evaporative leaks, and diesel EGR (if applicable).


(2) We will approve a deficiency only if you show us that full compliance is infeasible or unreasonable considering any relevant factors, such as the technical feasibility of a given monitor, or the lead time and production cycles of vehicle designs and programmed computing upgrades.


(3) Our approval for a given deficiency applies only for a single model year, though you may continue to ask us to extend a deficiency approval in renewable one-year increments. We may approve an extension if you demonstrate an acceptable level of effort toward compliance and show that the necessary hardware or software modifications would pose an unreasonable burden.


(d) For alternative-fuel vehicles, manufacturers may request a waiver from specific requirements for which monitoring may not be reliable for operation with the alternative fuel. However, we will not waive requirements that we judge to be feasible for a particular manufacturer or vehicle model.


(e) OBD-related requirements for alternative-fuel conversions apply as described in 40 CFR part 85, subpart F.


(f) You may ask us to waive certain requirements in this section for emergency vehicles. We will approve your request for an appropriate duration if we determine that the OBD requirement in question could harm system performance in a way that would impair a vehicle's ability to perform its emergency functions.


(g) The following interim provisions describe an alternate implementation schedule for the requirements of this section in certain circumstances:


(1) Manufacturers may delay complying with all the requirements of this section, and instead meet all the requirements that apply under § 86.1806-17 for any vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR that are not yet subject to all the Tier 4 standards in § 86.1811.


(2) Except as specified in this paragraph (g)(2), small-volume manufacturers may delay complying with all the requirements of this section until model year 2030, and instead meet all the requirements that apply under § 86.1806-17 during those years.





---

[N] [89 FR 28160, Apr. 18, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 50234, June 13, 2024]








