# § 80.1443   What are the opt-in provisions for noncontiguous states and territories?

(a) Alaska or a United States territory may petition EPA to opt-in to the program requirements of this subpart.


(b) EPA will approve the petition if it meets the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(c) The petition must be signed by the Governor of the state or his authorized representative (or the equivalent official of the territory).


(d)(1) A petition submitted under this section must be received by EPA by November 1 for the state or territory to be included in the RFS program in the next calendar year.


(2) A petition submitted under this section should be sent to the attention of “RFS Program” to the address in § 80.10(a).


(e) Upon approval of the petition by EPA:


(1) EPA shall calculate the standards for the following year, including the total gasoline and diesel fuel volume for the state or territory in question.


(2) Beginning on January 1 of the next calendar year, all gasoline and diesel fuel refiners and importers in the state or territory for which a petition has been approved shall be obligated parties.


(3) Beginning on January 1 of the next calendar year, all renewable fuel producers in the state or territory for which a petition has been approved shall, pursuant to § 80.1426(a)(2), be required to generate RINs and comply with other requirements of this subpart M that are applicable to producers of renewable fuel.



---

[N] [75 FR 14863, Mar. 26, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 7077, Feb. 6, 2020; 88 FR 44586, July 12, 2023]






