# § 1.1092(c)-4   Definitions.

The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1.1092(c)-1 through 1.1092(c)-3:


(a) *Equity option with flexible terms* means an equity option— 


(1) That is described in any of the following Securities Exchange Act Releases— 


(i) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendments by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. and the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Equity Options on Specified Equity Securities, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-36841 (Feb. 21, 1996); or 


(ii) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment Nos. 2 and 3 to the Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Equity Options on Specified Equity Securities, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-37336 (June 27, 1996); or 


(iii) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment Nos. 2, 4 and 5 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Exchange Traded Equity and Index Options, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-39549 (Jan. 23, 1998); or 


(iv) Any changes to the Security Exchange Act Releases described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section that are approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission; or


(2) That is traded on any national securities exchange that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (other than those described in the Security Exchange Act Releases set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and is—


(i) Substantially identical to the equity options described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and


(b) *Equity option with standardized terms* means an equity option—


(1) That is traded on a national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission;


(2) That, on the date the option is written, expires on the Saturday following the third Friday of the month of expiration;


(3) That has a strike price that is set at a uniform minimum strike price interval, that is established by the applicable national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that is not less than $1.00; and


(4) That has stock in a single corporation as its underlying security.


(c) *Qualifying over-the-counter option* means an equity option that—


(1) Is not traded on a national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and


(2) Is entered into with—


(i) A broker-dealer, acting as principal or agent, who is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 15 of the Securities Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a through 78mm) and the regulations thereunder and who must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 17 CFR 240.17a-3; or


(ii) An alternative trading system under 17 CFR 242.300 through 17 CFR 242.303; or


(iii) A person, acting as principal or agent, who must comply with the recordkeeping requirements for securities transactions described in 12 CFR 12.3, 12 CFR 208.34, or 12 CFR 344.4.


(d) *Single fixed strike price* means a strike price that is fixed, determinable, and stated as a dollar amount on the date the option is written. An option will not fail to have a single fixed strike price if, after the date the option is written, the strike price is adjusted to account for the effects of a dividend, stock dividend, stock distribution, stock split, reverse stock split, rights offering, distribution, reorganization, recapitalization, or reclassification with respect to the underlying security, or a merger, consolidation, dissolution, or liquidation of the issuer of the underlying security.


(e) *Adjusted applicable stock price* means the applicable stock price, as defined in section 1092(c)(4)(G), adjusted for time. To determine the adjusted applicable stock price, the applicable stock price, which is determined in accordance with the rules in section 1092(c)(4)(G), is multiplied by an adjustment factor. The adjustment factor table is as follows:


(f) *Securities Exchange Act Release* means a release issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. To determine identifying information for releases referenced in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, including release titles, identification numbers, and issue dates, contact the Office of the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. To obtain a copy of a Securities Exchange Act Release, submit a written request, including the specific release identification number, title, and issue date, to Securities and Exchange Commission, Attention Public Reference, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549.


(g) *Effective dates.* (1) Except for paragraph (a)(2) of this section, paragraph (a) of this section applies to equity options with flexible terms entered into on or after January 25, 2000. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies to equity options with flexible terms entered into on or after July 29, 2002.


(2) Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section apply to equity options entered into on or after July 29, 2002.


(3) Paragraph (f) of this section applies to equity options entered into on or after January 25, 2000.



---

[N] [67 FR 20900, 20901, Apr. 29, 2002]




