# Sec. 6   Application for approval; place of filing; investigation; disposition by Federal Port Controller; request for review; disposition by the NSA.

(a) Application for approval of a transfer of, or change in use of, or change in terms governing utilization of any port facility shall be in writing, and shall contain the following information:


(1) Name, address, and principal place of business of applicant;


(2) Specific description and location of port facility involved;


(3) Name, address, and principal place of business of owner and/or operator of such port facility;


(4) Present use of such port facility;


(5) Proposed use of such port facility; and


(6) A statement of the reasons why such transfer, change in use, or change in terms, is in the interests of the war effort, national defense, or the maintenance of the essential civilian economy.


(b) The application shall be signed by the applicant or by any lawfully authorized agent or representative of the applicant who is familiar with the facts stated therein.


(c) The application and two clear copies thereof shall be filed in the office of the Federal Port Controller of the port in which the port facility is located, when a Federal Port Controller has been designated for the port. For all other ports, the application and copies shall be filed in the office of the Maritime Administration Region Director for the area where the port is located.


(d) The Federal Port Controller or Region Director may require the applicant to submit reasonable proof of statements made in support of the application, and may make such investigation as may be necessary for proper disposition of the application. The Federal Port Controller or Region Director shall not be required to make any disposition of the application unless and until such reasonable proof has been submitted: *Provided,* That the disposition of any such application by the Federal Port Controller or Region Director shall not be delayed for more than 60 days from the date of the filing thereof for the purpose of completing any such investigation.


(e) The Federal Port Controller, or Maritime Administration's Region Director or Area Officer may approve the application in whole or in part when the action covered by the application to the extent approved, is in the interests of the war effort, national defense, or the maintenance of the essential civilian economy.


(f) Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the Federal Port Controller or Region Director in disapproving in whole or in part his application may request, in writing, that such action be reviewed by the Director, NSA. The written request shall contain a statement of reasons why the decision of the Federal Port Controller should be reversed or modified. The Director, NSA, or a designee, will review the application on the record made before the Federal Port Controller and will dispose of the application on its merits in accordance with the standards set forth above.




