# ยง 19.7   Protection against explosion hazard.

Unless properly designed, electric cap lamps may present two sources of probable explosion hazards: Ignition of an explosive atmosphere by the heated filament of the bulb in case the bulb glass is accidentally broken, and ignition by sparks or flashes from the battery. MSHA therefore requires the following safeguards: 


(a) *Safety device or design.* The headpiece shall have a safety device to prevent the ignition of explosive mixtures of methane and air if the bulb glass surrounding the filament is broken. Alternatively, if the lamp is designed and constructed to prevent the ignition of explosive mixtures of methane and air by protecting the bulb from breakage and preventing exposure of the hot filament, no safety device is required.


(b) *Headpiece lock or seal.* The headpiece shall be provided with a lock or seal to prevent unauthorized removal of the lens and tampering with the safety device, the bulb, or the electrical contacts. 


(c) *Locks on charging terminals.* Lamps shall be equipped with a magnetic or other equally effective lock at the battery, the headpiece, or the cord assembly to prevent unauthorized access to live charging terminals. 


(d) *Protection of battery terminals.* The battery covers of lamps that are recharged through the cord shall be so constructed and assembled as to prevent unauthorized access to the battery terminals. 


(e) *Battery current restricted.* The amount of current flow between the conductors of the cord, if short-circuited just outside of the battery casing or cord armor, shall be limited by the design of the battery or by a fuse to such a value 
4 as will not produce sparks that will ignite an explosive mixture of methane and air. 


(f) It shall not be possible to obtain a difference of potential between any two accessible points of the cap lamp when assembled for use.



---

[N] [Sched. 6D, 4 FR 4003, Sept. 21, 1939, as amended at 47 FR 11369, Mar. 16, 1982]




