# ยง 1603.102   Filing a complaint.

(a) *Who may make a complaint.* Individuals referred to in ยง 1603.101 who believe they have been discriminated against on the basis of race; color; religion; sex; national origin; age; disability; genetic information; or pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions; or retaliated against for opposing any practice made unlawful by Federal laws protecting equal employment opportunity or for participating in any stage of administrative or judicial proceedings under those Federal laws, may file a complaint not later than 180 days after the occurrence of the alleged discrimination or retaliation.


(b) *Where to file a complaint.* A complaint may be filed using the Commission's designated digital systems, in person, by facsimile, or by mail to any Commission office or with any designated agent or representative of the Commission. The addresses of the Commission's offices may be found at *www.eeoc.gov.*

(c) *Contents of a complaint.* A complaint shall be in writing and signed and shall be verified as defined in ยง 1601.3(a). In addition, each complaint should contain the following:


(1) The full name and contact information of the person making the complaint;


(2) The full name and contact information of the person, governmental entity, or political subdivision against whom the complaint is made, if known (hereinafter referred to as the respondent); 


(3) A clear and concise statement of the facts, including pertinent dates, constituting the alleged unlawful employment practices (See 29 CFR 1601.15(b)); and 


(4) A statement disclosing whether proceedings involving the alleged unlawful employment practice have been commenced before a State or local Fair Employment Practices (FEP) agency charged with the enforcement of fair employment practice laws and, if so, the date of such commencement and the name of the agency. 


(d) *Amendment of a complaint.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, a complaint is sufficient when the Commission receives from the person making the complaint a written statement sufficiently precise to identify the parties and to describe generally the alleged discriminatory action or practices. A complaint may be amended to cure technical defects or omissions, including failure to verify the complaint, or to clarify and amplify its allegations. Such amendments, and amendments alleging additional acts that constitute discriminatory employment practices related to or growing out of the subject matter of the original complaint, will relate back to the date the complaint was first received. A complaint that has been amended after it was referred (see ยง 1603.103) shall not be again referred to the appropriate State or local FEP agency. 


(e) *Misfiled complaint.* A charge filed pursuant to 29 CFR part 1601 or part 1626 that is later deemed to be a matter under this part shall be processed as a complaint under this part and shall relate back to the date of the initial charge or complaint. A complaint filed under this part that is later deemed to be a matter under 29 CFR part 1601 or part 1626 shall be processed as a charge under the appropriate regulation and shall relate back to the date of the initial complaint. 



---

[N] [62 FR 17543, Apr. 10, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 26829, May 9, 2006; 74 FR 63983, Dec. 7, 2009; 89 FR 11170, Feb. 14, 2024; 89 FR 47851, June 4, 2024]




