# § 1.381(c)(25)-1   Deficiency dividend of a qualified investment entity.

(a) *Carryover requirement.* If a distributor or transferor corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies—


(1) Was a qualified investment entity (within the meaning of section 860(b)) for any taxable year ending on or before the date of distribution or transfer, and


(2) A determination (as defined in section 860(e)) establishes that the transferor or distributor corporation is liable for the tax imposed by section 11(a), 56(a), 852(b), 857(b)(1), 857(b)(3)(A), or 1201(a) for such taxable year, then in determining the liability for such tax the deduction described in section 860 shall be allowed pursuant to section 381(c)(25) to such corporation for the amount of deficiency dividends paid by the acquiring corporation with respect to the distributor or transferor corporation. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the provisions of section 860 and the regulations thereunder apply with respect to a deficiency dividend deduction allowable pursuant to section 381(c)(25).


(b) *Deficiency dividends paid by the acquiring corporation with respect to the distributor or transferor corporation.* A deficiency dividend paid by the acquiring corporation with respect to the distributor or transferor corporation must be a distribution that would satisfy the definition of a deficiency dividend under section 860(f) if paid by the distributor or transferor corporation to its own shareholders. The distribution, however, shall be paid by the acquiring corporation to its own shareholders. The distribution also shall be paid after the date of distribution or transfer and on, or within 90 days after, the date of the determination but before the acquiring corporation files a claim under paragraph (c) of this section. 


(c) *Claim for deduction.* A claim for deduction under this section shall be made by the acquiring corporation on Form 976 and shall be filed within 120 days after the date of the determination. The form shall contain, or be accompanied by, the information required under § 1.860-2(b)(2) in sufficient detail to properly identify the facts with respect to the distributor or transferor corporation and the acquiring corporation. The required certified copy of the resolution authorizing the payment of the dividend shall be that of the trustees, board of directors, or other authority, of the acquiring corporation. Necessary changes may be made in Form 976 in order to carry out the provisions of this paragraph. The claim shall be filed with the district director, or director of the internal revenue service center, with whom the return of the distributor or transferor corporation to which the claim relates was filed.


(d) *Effect on dividends paid deduction.* A deficiency dividend paid by the acquiring corporation that is allowable as a deduction to a distributor or transferor corporation pursuant to section 381(c)(25) shall not become a part of the dividends paid deduction of the acquiring corporation under section 561 for any taxable year.


(e) *Successive transactions to which section 381(a) applies.* The provisions of this section shall apply in the case of successive transactions to which section 381(a) applies. Thus, if X corporation transfers its assets to Y corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies and if Y corporation transfers its assets to Z corporation in a subsequent transaction to which section 381(a) applies, then, subject to the provisions of this section, X corporation may take a deficiency dividend deduction for the amount of deficiency dividends paid by Z corporation with respect to X corporation.



---

[N] [T.D. 7767, 46 FR 11264, Feb. 6, 1981, as amended by T.D. 7936, 49 FR 2106, Jan. 18, 1984]




