# § 354.1   Definitions of terms.

(a) *Adverse claim* means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.


(b) *Book-entry Sallie Mae Security* means a Sallie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System.


(c) *Book-entry System* means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for Sallie Mae, on which Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.


(d) *Definitive Sallie Mae Security* means a Sallie Mae Security in engraved or printed form, or that is otherwise represented by a certificate.


(e) *Eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Security* means a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System which by the terms of its Security Documentation is available in either definitive or book-entry form.


(f) *Entitlement holder* means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.


(g) *Federal Reserve Bank* means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.


(h) *Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular* means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Federal Reserve Bank maintains book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities).


(i) *Funds account* means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.


(j) *Participant* means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.


(k) *Participant's securities account* means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited.


(l) *Person* means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States, Sallie Mae, or a Federal Reserve Bank.


(m) *Revised Article 8* means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code is incorporated by reference in this part pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 5030, main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington D.C. 20220, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(n) *Sallie Mae* means the Student Loan Marketing Association, a stock holder-owned corporation and government-sponsored enterprise established in 1972 by, and operating pursuant to, section 439 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1087-2.


(o) *Sallie Mae security* means any security or obligation of Sallie Mae issued in the form of a Definitive Sallie Mae Security or a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.


(p) *Securities documentation* means the applicable statement of terms and conditions or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.


(q) *Securities intermediary* means:


(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other Person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry Security that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a federal or state governmental authority; or


(2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the federal securities laws) including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.


(r) *Security* means any note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security.”


(s) *Security entitlement* means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.


(t) *State* means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


(u) *Transfer message* means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security (including a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security) maintained in the Book-entry System, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.



---

[N] [62 FR 622, Jan. 6, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




