# § 35.1340   Clearance.

Clearance examinations required under subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R, of this part shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(a) *Clearance following abatement.* Clearance examinations performed following abatement of lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards shall be performed in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e) and paragraphs (c)-(f) of this section. Such clearances shall be performed by a person certified to perform risk assessments or lead-based paint inspections.


(b) *Clearance following activities other than abatement.* Clearance examinations performed following interim controls, paint stabilization, standard treatments, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, or rehabilitation shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (b) and paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section. Clearance is not required if the work being cleared does not disturb painted surfaces of a total area more than that set forth in § 35.1350(d).


(1) *Qualified personnel.* Clearance examinations shall be performed by:


(i) A certified risk assessor;


(ii) A certified lead-based paint inspector;


(iii) A person who has successfully completed a training course for sampling technicians (or a discipline of similar purpose and title) that is developed or accepted by EPA or a State or tribal program authorized by EPA pursuant to 40 CFR part 745, subpart Q, and that is given by a training provider accredited by EPA or a State or Indian Tribe for training in lead-based paint inspection or risk assessment, provided a certified risk assessor or a certified lead-based paint inspector approves the work of the sampling technician and signs the report of the clearance examination; or


(iv) A technician licensed or certified by EPA or a State or Indian Tribe to perform clearance examinations without the approval of a certified risk assessor or certified lead-based paint inspector, provided that a clearance examination by such a licensed or certified technician shall be performed only for a single-family property or individual dwelling units and associated common areas in a multi-unit property, and provided further that a clearance examination by such a licensed or certified sampling technician shall not be performed using random sampling of dwelling units or common areas in multifamily properties, except that a clearance examination performed by such a licensed or certified sampling technician is acceptable for any residential property if the clearance examination is approved and the report signed by a certified risk assessor or a certified lead-based paint inspector.


(2) *Required activities.* (i) Clearance examinations shall include a visual assessment, dust sampling, submission of samples for analysis for lead in dust, interpretation of sampling results, and preparation of a report. Soil sampling is not required. Clearance examinations shall be performed in dwelling units, common areas, and exterior areas in accordance with this section and the steps set forth at 40 CFR 745.227(e)(8). If clearance is being performed after lead-based paint hazard reduction, paint stabilization, maintenance, or rehabilitation that affected exterior surfaces but did not disturb interior painted surfaces or involve elimination of an interior dust-lead hazard, interior clearance is not required if window, door, ventilation, and other openings are sealed during the exterior work. If clearance is being performed for more than 10 dwelling units of similar construction and maintenance, as in a multifamily property, random sampling for the purpose of clearance may be conducted in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e)(9).


(ii) The visual assessment shall be performed to determine if deteriorated paint surfaces and/or visible amounts of dust, debris, paint chips or other residue are still present. Both exterior and interior painted surfaces shall be examined for the presence of deteriorated paint. If deteriorated paint or visible dust, debris or residue are present in areas subject to dust sampling, they must be eliminated prior to the continuation of the clearance examination, except elimination of deteriorated paint is not required if it has been determined, through paint testing or a lead-based paint inspection, that the deteriorated paint is not lead-based paint. If exterior painted surfaces have been disturbed by the hazard reduction, maintenance or rehabilitation activity, the visual assessment shall include an assessment of the ground and any outdoor living areas close to the affected exterior painted surfaces. Visible dust or debris in living areas shall be cleaned up and visible paint chips on the ground shall be removed.


(iii) Dust samples shall be wipe samples and shall be taken on floors and, where practicable, interior window sills and window troughs. Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with § 35.1315 of this part.


(iv) Clearance reports shall be prepared in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Clearance report.* When clearance is required, the designated party shall ensure that a clearance report is prepared that provides documentation of the hazard reduction or maintenance activity as well as the clearance examination. When abatement is performed, the report shall be an abatement report in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e)(10). When another hazard reduction or maintenance activity requiring a clearance report is performed, the report shall include the following information:


(1) The address of the residential property and, if only part of a multifamily property is affected, the specific dwelling units and common areas affected.


(2) The following information on the clearance examination:


(i) The date(s) of the clearance examination;


(ii) The name, address, and signature of each person performing the clearance examination, including certification number;


(iii) The results of the visual assessment for the presence of deteriorated paint and visible dust, debris, residue or paint chips;


(iv) The results of the analysis of dust samples, in µg/sq.ft., by location of sample; and


(v) The name and address of each laboratory that conducted the analysis of the dust samples, including the identification number for each such laboratory recognized by EPA under section 405(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2685(b)).


(3) The following information on the hazard reduction or maintenance activity for which clearance was performed:


(i) The start and completion dates of the hazard reduction or maintenance activity;


(ii) The name and address of each firm or organization conducting the hazard reduction or maintenance activity and the name of each supervisor assigned;


(iii) A detailed written description of the hazard reduction or maintenance activity, including the methods used, locations of exterior surfaces, interior rooms, common areas, and/or components where the hazard reduction activity occurred, and any suggested monitoring of encapsulants or enclosures; and


(iv) If soil hazards were reduced, a detailed description of the location(s) of the hazard reduction activity and the method(s) used.


(d) *Standards.* The clearance standards in § 35.1320(b)(2) shall apply. If test results equal or exceed the standards, the dwelling unit, worksite, or common area represented by the sample fails the clearance examination.


(e) *Clearance failure.* All surfaces represented by a failed clearance sample shall be recleaned or treated by hazard reduction, and retested, until the applicable clearance level in § 35.1320(b)(2) is met.


(f) *Independence.* Clearance examinations shall be performed by persons or entities independent of those performing hazard reduction or maintenance activities, unless the designated party uses qualified in-house employees to conduct clearance. An in-house employee shall not conduct both a hazard reduction or maintenance activity and its clearance examination.


(g) *Worksite clearance.* Clearance of only the worksite is permitted after work covered by §§ 35.930, 35.1330, 35.1335, or 35.1355, when containment is used to ensure that dust and debris generated by the work is kept within the worksite. Otherwise, clearance must be of the entire dwelling unit, common area, or outbuilding, as applicable. When clearance is of an interior worksite that is not an entire dwelling unit, common area, or outbuilding, dust samples shall be taken for paragraph (b) of this section as follows:


(1) Sample, from each of at least four rooms, hallways, stairwells, or common areas within the dust containment area:


(i) The floor (one sample); and


(ii) Windows (one interior sill sample and one trough sample, if present); and


(2) Sample the floor in a room, hallway, stairwell, or common area connected to the dust containment area, within five feet outside the area (one sample).



---

[N] [64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34274, June 21, 2004]




