# § 14.32   Permits to import or export wildlife at nondesignated port to minimize deterioration or loss.

(a) *General.* The Director may, upon receipt of an application submitted in accordance with the provisions of this section and §§ 13.11 and 13.12 of this subchapter, and in accordance with the issuance criteria of this section, issue a permit authorizing importation or exportation of wildlife, in order to minimize deterioration or loss, at one or more named Customs port(s) of entry not otherwise authorized by subpart B. Such permits may authorize a single importation or exportation, a series of importations or exportations, or importation or exportation during a specified period of time.


(b) *Application procedure.* Applications for permits to import or export wildlife at a nondesignated port to minimize deterioration or loss must be submitted to the Director. Each application must contain the general information and certification required in § 13.12(a) of this subchapter, plus the following additional information:


(1) The number and kinds of wildlife described by scientific and common names to be imported or exported where such number and kinds can be determined;


(2) The country or place in which the wildlife was removed from the wild (if known), or where born in captivity;


(3) The port(s) of entry where importation or exportation is requested, and the reasons why importation or exportation should be allowed at the requested port(s) of entry rather than at a designated port (information must be included to show that an importation or exportation at a designated port would result in a substantial deterioration or loss of the wildlife); and


(4) A statement as to whether the exception is being requested for a single shipment, a series of shipments, or shipments over a specified period of time and the date(s) involved.


(c) *Additional permit conditions.* In addition to the general conditions set forth in part 13 of this subchapter B, permits to import or export wildlife at a nondesignated port issued under this section are to be subject to the following conditions:


(1) Permittee shall file such reports as may be specified on the permit, if any; and


(2) Permittee must pay fees in accordance with § 14.94.


(d) *Issuance criteria.* The Director shall consider the following in determining whether to issue a permit under this section:


(1) Likelihood of a substantial deterioration or loss of the wildlife involved;


(2) The kind of wildlife involved and its place of origin; and


(3) Availability of a Service officer.


(e) *Duration of permits.* Any permit issued under this section expires on the date designated on the face of the permit. In no case will the permit be valid more than 2 years from the date of issuance.



---

[N] [45 FR 56673, Aug. 25, 1980; 45 FR 64953, Oct. 1, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 31869, June 21, 1996]




