# ยง 1114.49   Electronic submission.

(a) *Electronic format requirement.* Applicants submitting any documents to the Agency under this part must provide all required information to FDA using the Agency's electronic system, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The application and all supporting information must be submitted in an electronic format that FDA can process, review, and archive.


(b) *Waivers from electronic format requirement.* An applicant may submit a written request, that is legible and in English, to the Center for Tobacco Products asking that FDA waive the requirement for electronic format and content. Waivers will be granted if use of electronic means is not reasonable for the applicant. To request a waiver, applicants can send the written request to the address included on our website (*www.fda.gov/tobacco-products*). The request must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the applicant, a list of individuals authorized by the applicant to serve as the contact person and contact information. If the applicant has submitted a PMTA previously, the regulatory correspondence should also include any identifying information about the previous submission.


(2) A statement that creation and/or submission of information in electronic format is not reasonable for the applicant, and an explanation of why creation and/or submission in electronic format is not reasonable. This statement must be signed by the applicant or by a representative who is authorized to make the declaration on behalf of the applicant.


(c) *Paper submission.* An applicant who has obtained a waiver from filing electronically must send a written application through the Document Control Center to the address provided in the FDA documentation granting the waiver.




