# § 583.5   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Applicant* is defined in section 422(1) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(1)). For purposes of this definition, governmental entities include those that have general governmental powers (such as a city or county), as well as those that have limited or special powers (such as public housing agencies). 


*Consolidated plan* means the plan that a jurisdiction prepares and submits to HUD in accordance with 24 CFR part 91. 


*Date of initial occupancy* means the date that the supportive housing is initially occupied by a homeless person for whom HUD provides assistance under this part. If the assistance is for an existing homeless facility, the *date of initial occupancy* is the date that services are first provided to the residents of supportive housing with funding under this part. 


*Date of initial service provision* means the date that supportive services are initially provided with funds under this part to homeless persons who do not reside in supportive housing. This definition applies only to projects funded under this part that do not provide supportive housing. 


*Developmental disability* means, as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 15002):


(1) A severe, chronic disability of an individual that—


(i) Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments;


(ii) Is manifested before the individual attains age 22;


(iii) Is likely to continue indefinitely;


(iv) Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity:


(A) Self-care;


(B) Receptive and expressive language;


(C) Learning;


(D) Mobility;


(E) Self-direction;


(F) Capacity for independent living;


(G) Economic self-sufficiency; and


(v) Reflects the individual's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic services, individualized supports, or other forms of assistance that are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated.


(2) An individual from birth to age 9, inclusive, who has a substantial developmental delay or specific congenital or acquired condition, may be considered to have a developmental disability without meeting three or more of the criteria described in paragraphs (1)(i) through (v) of the definition of “developmental disability” in this section if the individual, without services and supports, has a high probability of meeting those criteria later in life.


*Disability* means:


(1) A condition that:


(i) Is expected to be long-continuing or of indefinite duration;


(ii) Substantially impedes the individual's ability to live independently;


(iii) Could be improved by the provision of more suitable housing conditions; and


(iv) Is a physical, mental, or emotional impairment, including an impairment caused by alcohol or drug abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder, or brain injury;


(2) A developmental disability, as defined in this section; or


(3) The disease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or any conditions arising from the etiologic agent for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, including infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).


*Homeless* means:


(1) An individual or family who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, meaning:


(i) An individual or family with a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings, including a car, park, abandoned building, bus or train station, airport, or camping ground;


(ii) An individual or family living in a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designated to provide temporary living arrangements (including congregate shelters, transitional housing, and hotels and motels paid for by charitable organizations or by federal, state, or local government programs for low-income individuals); or


(iii) An individual who is exiting an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less and who resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation immediately before entering that institution;


(2) An individual or family who will imminently lose their primary nighttime residence, provided that:


(i) The primary nighttime residence will be lost within 14 days of the date of application for homeless assistance;


(ii) No subsequent residence has been identified; and


(iii) The individual or family lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, needed to obtain other permanent housing;


(3) Unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or families with children and youth, who do not otherwise qualify as homeless under this definition, but who:


(i) Are defined as homeless under section 387 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a), section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), section 41403 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2), section 330(h) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(h)), section 3 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012), section 17(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b)), or section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a);


(ii) Have not had a lease, ownership interest, or occupancy agreement in permanent housing at any time during the 60 days immediately preceding the date of application for homeless assistance;


(iii) Have experienced persistent instability as measured by two moves or more during the 60-day period immediately preceding the date of applying for homeless assistance; and


(iv) Can be expected to continue in such status for an extended period of time because of chronic disabilities, chronic physical health or mental health conditions, substance addiction, histories of domestic violence or childhood abuse (including neglect), the presence of a child or youth with a disability, or two or more barriers to employment, which include the lack of a high school degree or General Education Development (GED), illiteracy, low English proficiency, a history of incarceration or detention for criminal activity, and a history of unstable employment; or


(4) Any individual or family who:


(i) Is fleeing, or is attempting to flee, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions that relate to violence against the individual or a family member, including a child, that has either taken place within the individual's or family's primary nighttime residence or has made the individual or family afraid to return to their primary nighttime residence;


(ii) Has no other residence; and


(iii) Lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, and faith-based or other social networks, to obtain other permanent housing.


*Metropolitan city* is defined in section 102(a)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(4)). In general, metropolitan cities are those cities that are eligible for an entitlement grant under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D. 


*New construction* means the building of a structure where none existed or an addition to an existing structure that increases the floor area by more than 100 percent. 


*Operating costs* is defined in section 422(5) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(5)). 


*Outpatient health services* is defined in section 422(6) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(6)). 


*Permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities* is defined in section 424(c) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(c)). 


*Private nonprofit organization* is defined in section 422(7) (A), (B), and (D) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(7) (A), (B), and (D)). The organization must also have a functioning accounting system that is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or designate an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 


*Project* is defined in sections 422(8) and 424(d) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(8), 11384(d)). 


*Recipient* is defined in section 422(9) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(9)). 


*Rehabilitation* means the improvement or repair of an existing structure or an addition to an existing structure that does not increase the floor area by more than 100 percent. Rehabilitation does not include minor or routine repairs. 


*State* is defined in section 422(11) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(11)). 


*Supportive housing* is defined in section 424(a) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(a)). 


*Supportive services* is defined in section 425 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11385). 


*Transitional housing* is defined in section 424(b) of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(b)). See also § 583.300(j). 


*Tribe* is defined in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302). 


*Urban county* is defined in section 102(a)(6) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(6)). In general, urban counties are those counties that are eligible for an entitlement grant under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D. 



---

[N] [61 FR 51175, Sept. 30, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 76016, Dec. 5, 2011]




