# ยง 377.10   Requirements for, and effect of, renewal applications.

(a) *Identification of authorization covered by renewal application.* Each renewal application shall identify the authorization or authorizations to which it is intended to relate. The application shall indicate the applicant's intention to rely upon 5 U.S.C. 558(c) as implemented by this part. In case of applications for renewal of an authorization for route service, the renewal application shall specifically identify the separate routes which the applicant proposes to continue serving pursuant to the expiring authorization, pending final determination of the renewal application. 


(b) *Contents of renewal application.* The application must contain all the information required by law and the Department's regulations, and meet the requirements thereof as to form. The new authorization sought need not be of the same duration as the expiring authorization. If the application relates to renewal of route authority, it must contain, as a minimum, a request for renewed authority to render route service between the terminals named in each separate route for which renewal is requested. 


(c) *Timeliness.* The application must be filed and served in compliance with applicable law and the Department's regulations at least 60 days before the expiration date of the outstanding temporary authorization, except that:


(1) For certificates issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102 with a specified expiration date, the deadline is 180 days before the expiration date;


(2) For certificates issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102 that terminate by their terms upon the happening of an event that could not be foreseen, the deadline is 30 days after the time that the carrier has notice that the event will occur or has occurred;


(3) For foreign air carrier permits issued under 49 U.S.C. 41301 and exemptions issued under 49 U.S.C. 41708 to non-U.S. citizens, the deadline is the expiration date itself;


(4) For renewal by substantially equivalent certificate authority of fixed term route authorizations granted by exemption and for interim extension of the exemption, pursuant to ยง 399.18 of this chapter, the deadline is 90 days before the expiration date; and


(5) Nothing in this part supersedes a requirement for earlier filing contained in any law, Department rule or order, or temporary authorization.


(d) *Effect.* In the case of authorizations which constitute licenses with reference to activities of a continuing nature within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 558(c), the filing of an application complying in all respects with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall extend the authorization to which it relates as then outstanding in its entirety, together with all applicable terms, conditions and limitations, until the application has been finally determined by the Department. In the case of routes granted under 49 U.S.C. 41102, the duty to render adequate service continues to attach to every point as provided in the expired authorization which is extended pursuant to this provision. The date of final determination of the application shall be the date when the final order determining the application takes effect, or when the applicable period for filing of petitions for rehearing, reargument or reconsideration expires, or when a timely filed petition therefor is denied, whichever occurs latest. 



---

[N] [SPR-84, 40 FR 24998, June 12, 1975, as amended by SPR-184, 47 FR 7212, Feb. 18, 1982; 65 FR 6457, Feb. 9, 2000; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15940, Apr. 16, 2019]




