# § 165.1407   Security Zones; Oahu, HI.

(a) *Location.* The following areas, from the surface of the water to the ocean floor, are security zones that are activated and enforced subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d). All coordinates below are expressed in degrees, minutes, and tenths or hundredths of minutes.


(1) *Honolulu Harbor.* All waters of Honolulu Harbor and Honolulu entrance channel commencing at a line between Honolulu Harbor Entrance Channel Lighted Buoys 1 and 2, to a line between Kalihi Channel Lights 14 and 15 west of Sand Island Bridge.


(2) *Honolulu Harbor Anchorages B, C, and D.* All waters extending 100 yards in all directions from each vessel in excess of 300 gross tons anchored in Honolulu Harbor Anchorage B, C, or D, as defined in 33 CFR 110.235(a).


(3) *Kalihi Channel and Keehi Lagoon, Oahu.* All waters of Kalihi Channel and Keehi Lagoon beginning at Kalihi Channel Entrance Lighted Buoy 1 and continuing along the general trend of Kalihi Channel to Light 13, thence continuing on a bearing of 332.5°T to shore, thence east and south along the general trend of the shoreline to Light 15, thence southeast to Light 14, thence southeast along the general trend of the shoreline of Sand Island, to the southwest tip of Sand Island at 21°18.0′ N., 157°53.05′ W., thence southwest on a bearing of 233°T to Kalihi Channel Entrance Lighted Buoy 1.


(4) *Honolulu International Airport*—(i) *Honolulu International Airport, North Section.* All waters surrounding Honolulu International Airport from 21°18.25′ N., 157°55.58′ W., thence south to 21°18.0′ N., 157°55.58′ W., thence east to the western edge of Kalihi Channel, thence north along the western edge of the channel to Light 13, thence northwest at a bearing of 332.5°T to shore.


(ii) *Honolulu International Airport, South Section.* All waters near Honolulu International Airport from 21°18.0′ N/157°55.58′ W, thence south to 21°16.5′ N/157°55.58′ W, thence east to 21°16.5′ N/157°54.0′ W (the extension of the western edge of Kalihi Channel), thence north along the western edge of the channel to Kalihi Channel buoy “5”, thence west to 21°18.0′ N/157°55.58′ W.


(5) *Barbers Point Offshore Moorings.* All waters around the Tesoro Single Point and the Chevron Conventional Buoy Moorings beginning at 21°16.43′ N/158°06.03′ W, thence northeast to 21°17.35′ N/158°3.95′ W, thence southeast to 21°16.47′ N/ 158°03.5′ W, thence southwest to 21°15.53′ N/158°05.56′ W, thence north to the beginning point.


(6) *Barbers Point Harbor, Oahu.* All waters contained within the Barbers Point Harbor, Oahu, enclosed by a line drawn between Harbor Entrance Channel Light 6 and the jetty point day beacon at 21°19.5′ N/158°07.26′ W.


(7) *Kahe Point, Oahu.* All waters adjacent to the Hawaiian Electric Company power plant at Kahe Point within 500 yards of 21°21.30' N/158′ 07.7°W (lighted tower).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, *MARSEC Level 2 or Maritime Security Level 2* means, as defined in 33 CFR 101.105, the level for which appropriate additional protective security measures shall be maintained for a period of time as a result of heightened risk of a transportation security incident.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) Under 33 CFR 165.33, entry into the security zones described in this section is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, Honolulu or his or her designated representatives.


(2) Persons desiring to transit the areas of the security zones may contact the Captain of the Port at Command Center telephone number (808) 842-2600 and (808) 842-2601, fax (808) 842-2624 or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to seek permission to transit the area. Written requests may be submitted to the Captain of Port, U.S. Coast Guard Sector Honolulu, Sand Island Access Road, Honolulu, Hawaii 96819, or faxed to (808) 842-2622. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representatives. For all seaplane traffic entering or transiting the security zones, a seaplane's compliance with all Federal Aviation Administration regulations (14 CFR parts 91 and 99) regarding flight-plan approval is deemed adequate permission to transit the waterway security zones described in this section.


(d) *Notice of enforcement or suspension of enforcement of security zones.* (1) The security zones described in paragraphs (a)(3) (Kalihi Channel and Keehi Lagoon, Oahu), (a)(4)(i) (Honolulu International Airport, North Section), (a)(4)(ii) (Honolulu International Airport, South Section), (a)(6) (Barbers Point Harbor, Oahu), and (a)(7) (Kahe Point, Oahu) of this section, will be enforced only upon the occurrence of one of the following events— 


(i) Whenever the Maritime Security (MARSEC) level, as defined in 33 CFR part 101, is raised to 2 or higher; or


(ii) Whenever the Captain of the Port, after considering all available facts, determines that there is a heightened risk of a transportation security incident or other serious maritime incident, including but not limited to any incident that may cause a significant loss of life, environmental damage, transportation system disruption, or economic disruption in a particular area.


(2) A notice will be published in the _Federal Register_ reporting when events in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) have occurred.


(3) The Captain of the Port of Honolulu will cause notice of the enforcement of the security zones listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and notice of suspension of enforcement to be made by appropriate means to affect the widest publicity, including the use of broadcast notice to mariners and publication in the local notice to mariners.


(e) *Informational notices.* The Captain of the Port will cause notice of the presence of the security zones established in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, Honolulu Harbor Anchorages B, C, and D, to be made by appropriate means to affect the widest publicity, including the use of broadcast notice to mariners and publication in the local notice to mariners.


(f) *Enforcement.* Any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer, and any other Captain of the Port representative permitted by law, may enforce the rules in this section.


(g) *Waiver.* The Captain of the Port, Honolulu may waive any of the requirements of this section for any vessel or class of vessels upon his or her determination that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purpose of port and maritime security.


(h) *Penalties.* Vessels or persons violating this section are subject to the penalties set forth in 46 U.S.C. 70036 and 46 U.S.C. 70052.



---

[N] [CGD14-04-116, 70 FR 75040, Dec. 19, 2005, as amended by CGD 14-07-001, 72 FR 44777, Aug. 9, 2007; 72 FR 57863, Oct. 11, 2007; USCG-2009-0416, 74 FR 27442, June 10, 2009; USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44287, July 27, 2015]




