# ยง 1101.22   Timing: request for time extensions.

(a) *Time for comment.* (1) Generally firms will receive ten (10) calendar days from the date of the letter in which the Commission transmits the notice to furnish comments to the Commission. Firms that receive requests for comments by mail will receive an additional three (3) days to comment to account for time in the mail.


(2) Upon his or her own initiative or upon request, the Freedom of Information Officer may provide a different amount of time for comment, particularly for firms that receive voluminous or complex material. In addition, the Commission may publish a finding that the public health and safety requires a lesser period of notice and may require a response in a shorter period of time (*see* ยง 1101.24).


(b) *No response submitted.* (1) If the Commission has not received a response within the time specified and if it has received no request for extension of time, the Commission will analyze the information as provided in subpart D. If no comments are submitted the Commission will not give the further notice provided in section 6(b)(2).


(2) Unless the Commission publishes a finding that the public health and safety requires a lesser period of notice (see ยง 1101.23), the Commission will not disclose the information in fewer than 15 days after providing a manufacturer or private labeler notice and opportunity to comment.


(c) *Requests for time extension.* (1) Requests for extension of time to comment on information to be disclosed must be made to the person who provided the Commission's notice and opportunity to comment. The request for time extension may be either oral or written. An oral request for a time extension must be promptly confirmed in writing.


(2) Requests for extension of time must explain with specificity why the extension is needed and how much additional time is required.


(3) The Commission will promptly respond to requests for extension of time.



---

[N] [48 FR 57430, Dec. 29, 1983, as amended at 73 FR 72335, Nov. 28, 2008]




