# § 618.455   Determining the amount of a relocation allowance.

The AAW's relocation allowance includes the information in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable:


(a) *Reimbursement*—(1) *Travel.* (i) The State may reimburse the AAW for up to 90 percent of the prevailing cost per mile by privately owned vehicle under the FTR, found at *https://www.gsa.gov/,* for travel from the AAW's old home to the AAW's new home.


(ii) Separate travel of a family member or members who, for good cause and with the approval of the State, must travel separately to their new home, may also be reimbursed. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), good cause includes, but is not limited to, reasons such as a family member's health, schooling, job, or economic circumstances.


(2) *Lodging and meals.* The State may reimburse the worker for 90 percent of lodging and meal expenses for the worker and his or her family while they are in transit, but such costs may not exceed the lesser of:


(i) The actual lodging and meals cost to the worker and his or her family while they are traveling; or


(ii) 50 percent of the prevailing per diem allowance under the FTR, found at *https://www.gsa.gov/,* for the relocation area for those days while the worker and his or her family are traveling.


(3) *Movement of household goods.* (i) The State may reimburse the worker for 90 percent of the allowable costs of moving the workers and family's household goods and personal effects in accordance with the FTR (41 CFR chapter 302). This includes 90 percent of the costs of moving by the most economical commercial carrier the State can reasonably expect the worker to use, moving by rental truck or trailer (for rental, mileage, and fuel), or moving a house trailer or mobile home. It also includes 90 percent of the costs of temporary storage of household goods for up to 60 days. In approving the move of a house trailer or mobile home, the State must follow the specific requirements of the FTR, found at *https://www.gsa.gov.*

(ii) For a commercial carrier move of household goods or house trailer or mobile home, the worker must obtain an estimate of the moving cost and provide this to the liable State. The estimate may include the cost of insuring such goods and effects for their actual value or $40,000 as delineated in the FTR, whichever is less, against loss or damage in transit.


(iii) If more economical, the State may make direct arrangements for moving and insuring a worker's household goods and personal effects with a carrier and insurer selected by the worker and may make payment of 90 percent of moving and insurance costs directly to the carrier and insurer. No such arrangement releases a carrier from liability otherwise provided by law or contract for loss or damage to the worker's goods and effects. Any contract for moving and insuring an AAW's household goods must provide that the United States must not be or become liable to either party for personal injury or property loss damage under any circumstances.


(iv) The maximum net weight of the household goods relocated from the worker's old home to the relocation area may not exceed that set by the FTR.


(4) *Lump sum.* As part of the relocation allowance, the worker will receive a lump sum equivalent to three times the worker's average weekly wage, not to exceed $1,250.


(b) *Reduction.* If the AAW is eligible to receive or has received moving expenses from any other source for the same relocation, the State must deduct the amount received from the amount of the relocation allowance as determined in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(c) *Limitation.* In no case may the State pay a travel allowance for the AAW or a family member more than once for a single relocation.




