# § 600.501   Definitions.

The definitions in § 600.3 of this part, including the definition of the term “financial assistance,” are applicable to this subpart. In addition, as used in this subpart: 


*Act* means the Energy Policy Act of 1992. 


*Company* means any business entity other than an organization of the type described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. § 501 (c)(3)). 


*Covered program* means a program under Titles XX through XXIII of the Act. (A list of covered programs, updated periodically as appropriate, is maintained and published by the Department of Energy.) 


*Parent company* means a company that: 


(1) Exercises ultimate ownership of the applicant company either directly, by ownership of a majority of that company's voting securities, or indirectly, by control over a majority of that company's voting securities through one or more intermediate subsidiary companies or otherwise, and 


(2) Is not itself subject to the ultimate ownership control of another company. 


*United States* means the several States, the District of Columbia, and all commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States. 


*United States-owned company* means: 


(1) A company that has majority ownership by individuals who are citizens of the United States, or 


(2) A company organized under the laws of a State that either has no parent company or has a parent company organized under the laws of a State. 


*Voting security* has the meaning given the term in the Public Utility Holding Company Act (15 U.S.C. 15b(17)). 




