# ยง 761.10   Planning and performing construction and other development.

(a) *Purpose.* This section describes Agency policies regarding the planning and performing of construction and other development work performed with:


(1) Direct FLP loan funds; or


(2) Insurance or other proceeds resulting from damage or loss to direct loan security.


(b) *Funds for development work.* The applicant or borrower:


(1) Must provide the Agency with an estimate of the total cash cost of all planned development prior to loan approval;


(2) Must show proof of sufficient funds to pay for the total cash cost of all planned development at or before loan closing;


(3) Must not incur any debts for materials or labor or make any expenditures for development purposes prior to loan closing with the expectation of being reimbursed from Agency loan funds.


(c) *Scheduling, planning, and completing development work.* The applicant or borrower:


(1) Is responsible for scheduling and planning development work in a manner acceptable to the Agency and must furnish the Agency information fully describing the planned development, the proposed schedule, and the manner in which it will be accomplished;


(2) Is responsible for obtaining all necessary State and local construction approvals and permits prior to loan closing;


(3) Must ensure that all development work meets the environmental requirements established in part 799 of this chapter;


(4) Must schedule development work to start as soon as feasible after the loan is closed and complete work as quickly as practicable;


(5) Is responsible for obtaining any required technical services from qualified technicians, tradespeople, and contractors.


(d) *Construction and repair standards.* (1) The construction of a new building and the alteration or repair of an existing building must conform with industry-acceptable construction practices and standards.


(2) All improvements to a property must conform to applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations.


(3) The applicant or borrower is responsible for selecting a design standard that meets all applicable local and state laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations, including building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, water, and waste management.


(4) The Agency will require drawings, specifications, and estimates to fully describe the work as necessary to protect the Agency's financial interests. The drawings and specifications must identify any specific development standards being used. Such information must be sufficiently complete to avoid any misunderstanding as to the extent, kind, and quality of work to be performed.


(5) The Agency will require technical data, tests, or engineering evaluations to support the design of the development as necessary to protect its financial interests.


(6) The Agency will require the applicant or borrower to provide written certification that final drawings and specifications conform with the applicable development standard as necessary to protect its financial interests. Certification must be obtained from individuals or organizations trained and experienced in the compliance, interpretation, or enforcement of the applicable development standards, such as licensed architects, professional engineers, persons certified by a relevant national model code organization, authorized local building officials, or national code organizations.


(e) *Inspection.* (1) The applicant or borrower is responsible for inspecting development work as necessary to protect their interest.


(2) The applicant or borrower must provide the Agency written certification that the development conforms to the plans and good construction practices, and complies with applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations.


(3) The Agency will require the applicant or borrower to obtain professional inspection services during construction as necessary to protect its financial interests.


(4) Agency inspections do not create or imply any duty or obligation of the Agency to the applicant or borrower.


(f) *Warranty and lien waivers.* The applicant or borrower must obtain and submit all lien waivers on any construction before the Agency will issue final payment.


(g) *Surety.* The Agency will require surety to guarantee both payment and performance for construction contracts as necessary to protect its financial interests.


(h) *Changing the planned development.* An applicant or borrower must request, in writing, Agency approval for any change to a planned development. The Agency will approve a change if all of the following are met:


(1) It will not reduce the value of the Agency's security;


(2) It will not adversely affect the soundness of the farming operation;


(3) It complies with all applicable laws and regulations;


(4) It is for an authorized loan purpose;


(5) It is within the scope of the original loan proposal;


(6) If required, documentation that sufficient funding for the full amount of the planned development is approved and available;


(7) If required, surety to cover the full revised development amount has been provided; and


(8) The modification is certified in accordance with paragraph (d) (6) of this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 63285, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 51284, Aug. 3, 2016]




