# § 13.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* This part contains the Department of Labor's rules relating to the administration and enforcement of Executive Order 13706 (Executive Order or the Order), “Establishing Paid Sick Leave for Federal Contractors.” The Order states that providing paid sick leave to employees will improve the health and performance of employees of Federal contractors and will bring benefits packages offered by Federal contractors in line with model employers, ensuring they remain competitive in the search for dedicated and talented employees. The Executive Order concludes that providing paid sick leave will result in savings and quality improvements in the work performed by parties who contract with the Federal Government that will in turn lead to improved economy and efficiency in Government procurement.


(b) *Policy.* Executive Order 13706 sets forth the general position of the Federal Government that providing access to paid sick leave on Federal contracts will increase efficiency and cost savings for the Federal Government. The Order therefore provides that executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, ensure that new covered contracts, contract-like instruments, and solicitations (collectively referred to as “contracts”) include a clause, which the contractor and any subcontractors shall incorporate into lower-tier subcontracts, specifying, as a condition of payment, that employees will earn not less than 1 hour of paid sick leave for every 30 hours worked on or in connection with covered contracts.


(c) *Scope.* Neither Executive Order 13706 nor this part creates or changes any rights under the Contract Disputes Act or creates any private right of action. The Executive Order provides that disputes regarding whether a contractor has provided paid sick leave as prescribed by the Order, to the extent permitted by law, shall be disposed of only as provided in this part. However, nothing in the Order or this part is intended to limit or preclude a civil action under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3730, or criminal prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 1001. The Order and this part similarly do not preclude judicial review of final decisions by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701 *et seq.*

