# ยง 51.2560   Definitions.

(a) *Well dried* means the kernel is firm and crisp. 


(b) *Very well dried* means the kernel is firm and crisp and the average moisture content of the lot does not exceed 7 percent or is specified (See ยง 51.2561). 


(c) *Foreign material* means leaves, sticks, in-shell nuts, shells or pieces of shells, dirt, or rocks, or any other substance other than pistachio kernels. No allowable tolerances for metal or glass. 


(d) *Whole kernel* means 
3/4 of a kernel or more. 


(e) *Splits* means more than 
3/4 of a half kernel split lengthwise. 


(f) *Damage* means any specific defect described in paragraph (f) (1) through (2) of this section or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances, see ยง 51.2557, Table I.) 


(1) *Immature kernels* are excessively thin kernels and can have black, brown or gray surface with a dark interior color and the immaturity has adversely affected the flavor of the kernel. 


(2) *Kernel spotting* refers to dark brown or dark gray spots aggregating more than one-eighth of the surface of the kernel. 


(g) *Serious damage* means any specific defect described in paragraph (g) (1) through (5) of this section, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances see ยง 51.2557 Table I.) 


(1) *Mold* which is readily visible on the kernel. 


(2) *Minor insect or vertebrate injury* means the kernel shows conspicuous evidence of feeding. 


(3) *Insect damage* is an insect, insect fragment, web or frass attached to the kernel. No live insects shall be permitted. 


(4) *Rancidity* means the kernel is distinctly rancid to taste. Staleness of flavor shall not be classed as rancidity. 


(5) *Decay* means one-sixteenth or more of the kernel is decomposed.



---

[N] [68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]




