# ยง 983.261   Family right to move.

(a) *Termination of assisted lease after one year.* The family may terminate the assisted lease at any time after one year of PBV assistance. The family must give the owner advance written notice of intent to vacate (with a copy to the PHA) in accordance with the lease.


(b) *Continued assistance.* If the family has elected to terminate the lease in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the PHA must offer the family the opportunity for continued tenant-based rental assistance. The PHA must specify in the Administrative Plan whether it will offer families assistance under the voucher program or other comparable tenant-based rental assistance. If voucher assistance is offered to the family and the search term expires, the PHA must issue the voucher to the next eligible family.


(c) *Contacting the PHA.* Before providing notice to terminate the lease under *paragraph (a)* of this section, a family must contact the PHA to request a voucher or comparable tenant-based rental assistance if the family wishes to move with continued assistance. If a voucher or other comparable tenant-based rental assistance is not immediately available to the family upon the family's request to the PHA, the PHA must give the family priority to receive the next available opportunity for continued tenant-based rental assistance. The PHA must describe in its Administrative Plan its policies and procedures for how the family must contact the PHA and how the PHA documents families waiting for continued tenant-based rental assistance.


(d) *Termination of assisted lease before one year.* If the family terminates the assisted lease before one year of PBV assistance, the family relinquishes the opportunity for continued tenant-based assistance under this section.


(e) *Notice exclusion.* When the family or a member of the family is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and the move is needed to protect the health or safety of the family or family member, the family is not required to give the owner advance written notice or contact the PHA under paragraph (a) and (c), respectively, of this section before moving from the unit. Additionally, when any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move, the family is not required to give the owner advance written notice or contact the PHA under paragraph (a) and (c), respectively, of this section before moving from the unit. A PHA may not terminate the assistance of a family due to a move occurring under the circumstances in this paragraph (e) and must offer the family the opportunity for continued tenant-based assistance if the family had received at least one year of PBV assistance prior to moving.


(f) *Emergency Transfer Plans.* In the case of a move due to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, PHAs must describe policies for facilitating emergency transfers for families with PBV assistance in their Emergency Transfer Plan, consistent with the requirements in 24 CFR 5.2005(e), including when the victim has received PBV assistance for less than one year and is not eligible for continued assistance under ยง 983.261(b).


(g) *Family break-up.* If a family break-up results from an occurrence of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), the PHA must ensure that the victim retains assistance in accordance with 24 CFR 982.315(a)(2).









---

[N] [89 FR 38335, May 7, 2024]












