# ยง 200.468   Specialized service facilities.

(a) The costs of services provided by highly complex or specialized facilities operated by the recipient or subrecipient are allowable provided the charges for the services meet the conditions of either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section* and* take into account any items of income or Federal financing that qualify as applicable credits under ยง 200.406. These costs include charges for facilities such as computing facilities, wind tunnels, and reactors.


(b) The costs of such services, when material, must be charged directly to the applicable Federal awards based on actual usage of the services on the basis of a schedule of rates or established methodology that:


(1) Does not discriminate between activities under Federal awards and other activities of the recipient or subrecipient, including usage by the recipient or subrecipient for internal purposes; and


(2) Is designed to recover only the aggregate costs of the services. Each service's costs must normally consist of its direct costs and an allocable share of all indirect costs. Rates must be adjusted at least biennially and must consider any over or under-applied costs of the previous period(s).


(c) Where the costs incurred for a service are not material, they may be allocated as indirect costs.


(d) Under extraordinary circumstances, the cognizant agency for indirect costs and the recipient or subrecipient may negotiate and establish an alternative costing arrangement if it is in the Federal Government's best interest.






