# § 291.45   BTS Schedule T-100, U.S. Air Carrier Traffic and Capacity Data by Nonstop Segment and On-Flight Market.

(a) Each section 41103 all-cargo air carrier shall file Schedule T-100, “U.S. Air Carrier Traffic and Capacity Data by Nonstop Segment and On-Flight Market”. 


(b) Schedule T-100 shall be filed monthly. 


(1) Schedule T-100 collects summarized flight stage data and on-flight market data for revenue flights. All traffic statistics shall be compiled in terms of each flight stage as actually performed. The detail T-100 data shall be maintained in such a manner as to permit monthly summarization and organization into two basic groupings. First, the nonstop segment information which is to be summarized by equipment type, within class of service, within pair-of-points, without regard to individual flight number. The second grouping requires that the enplanement/deplanement information be broken out into separate units called on-flight market records, which shall be summarized by class of service, within pair-of-points, without regard for equipment type or flight number. 


(2) *Joint-service operations.* The Department may authorize joint-service operations between two direct air carriers. Examples of these joint-service operations are: blocked-space agreements; part-charter agreements; code-sharing agreements; wet-lease agreements, and similar arrangements. 


(i) Joint-service operations are reported by the carrier in operational control of the flight, i.e., the carrier that uses its flight crews under its own FAA operating authority. The traffic moving under these agreements is reported on Schedule T-100 the same way as any other traffic on the aircraft. 


(ii) If there are questions about reporting a joint-service operation, contact the BTS Assistant Director—Airline Information (fax no. 202 366-3383, telephone no. 202 366-4373). Joint-service operations are reported in Schedule T-100 in accordance with this paragraph (b). 


(iii) *Operational control.* The air carrier in operational control of the aircraft (the carrier that uses its flight crews under its own FAA operating authority) must report joint services. 


(c) *Service classes.* (1) The statistical classifications are designed to reflect the operating characteristics attributable to each distinctive type of service offered. The combination of scheduled and nonscheduled operations with passenger, all-cargo, and military services are placed into service classes as follows: 


(2) Scheduled services include traffic and capacity elements applicable to air transportation provided pursuant to published schedules and extra sections of scheduled flights. Scheduled Passenger/Cargo (Service Class F) is a composite of first-class, coach, and mixed passenger/cargo service. 


(3) Nonscheduled services include all traffic and capacity elements applicable to the performance of nonscheduled aircraft charters, and other air transportation services not constituting an integral part of services performed pursuant to published flight schedules. 


(d) *Air transport traffic and capacity elements.* Within each of the service classifications, carriers shall report air transport traffic and capacity elements. The elements are reported on segment and/or market records as follows: 


(e) These reported items are further described as follows: 


(1) *Reporting period date.* The year and month to which the reported data are applicable. 


(2) *Carrier, Carrier entity code.* Each air carrier shall report its name and entity code (a five digit code assigned by BTS that identifies both the air carrier and its entity) for its particular operations. The Office of Airline Information (OAI) will assign or confirm codes upon request. Such requests should be transmitted by e-mail to *T100.Support@DOT.gov.*

(3) *Service class code.* The service class codes are prescribed in section 298.45(c). In general, classes are divided into two broad categories, either scheduled or nonscheduled, where scheduled = F + G and nonscheduled = L + N + P + R. 


(4) *Record type code.* This code indicates whether the data pertain to non-stop segment (record type S) or on-flight market (record type M). 


(5) *Aircraft type code.* This code represents the aircraft types, as described in the BTS' Accounting and Reporting Directives. 


(6) *Origin, Destination airport code(s).* These codes represent the industry designators. An industry source of these industry designator codes is the Official Airline Guide (OAG). OAI assigns codes, upon request, if not listed in the OAG. 


(7) *110 Revenue passengers enplaned.* The total number of revenue passengers enplaned at the origin point of a flight, boarding the flight for the first time; an unduplicated count of passengers in a market. 


(8) *130 Revenue passengers transported.* The total number of revenue passengers transported over a single flight stage, including those already on the aircraft from a previous flight stage. 


(9) *140 Revenue passenger-miles.* Computed by multiplying the inter-airport distance of each flight stage by the number of passengers transported on that flight stage. 


(10) *210 Revenue cargo tons enplaned.* The total number of cargo tons enplaned. This data element is a sum of the individual on-flight market figures for each of the following categories: 217 Freight and 219 Mail. This element represents an unduplicated count of the revenue traffic in a market. 


(11) *217 Enplaned freight.* The total weight of revenue freight enplaned at the origin point of a flight, loaded onto the flight for the first time; an unduplicated count of freight in a market. 


(12) *219 Enplaned mail.* The total weight of mail enplaned at the origin point of a flight, loaded onto the flight for the first time; an unduplicated count of mail in a market. 


(13) *230 Revenue tons transported.* The number of tons of revenue traffic transported. This element is the sum of the following elements: 231 Passengers transported-total, 237 Freight, and 239 Mail. 


(14) *237 Transported freight.* The total weight of freight transported over a single flight stage, including freight already on the aircraft from a previous flight stage. 


(15) *239 Transported mail.* The total weight of mail transported over a single flight stage, including mail already on the aircraft from a previous flight stage. 


(16) *240 Revenue ton-miles—total.* Ton-miles are computed by multiplying the revenue aircraft miles flown (410) on each flight stage by the number of tons transported on that stage. This element is the sum of 241 through 249. 


(17) *241 Revenue ton-miles—passenger.* Equals the number of passengers times 200, times inter-airport distance, divided by 2000. A standard weight of 200 pounds per passenger, including baggage, is used for all operations and service classes. 


(18) *247 Revenue ton-miles—freight.* Equals the volume of freight in whole tons times the inter-airport distance. 


(19) *249 Revenue ton-miles—mail.* Equals the volume of mail in whole tons times the inter-airport distance. 


(20) *270 Available capacity-payload.* The available capacity is collected in pounds. This figure shall reflect the payload or total available capacity for passengers, mail and freight applicable to the aircraft with which each flight stage is performed. 


(21) *280 Available ton-miles.* The aircraft miles flown on each flight stage multiplied by the available capacity on the aircraft in tons. 


(22) *310 Available seats.* The number of seats available for sale. This figure reflects the actual number of seats available, excluding those blocked for safety or operational reasons. In the domestic entity, report the total available seats in item 130. Scheduled and nonscheduled available seats are reported in item 130. 


(23) *320 Available seat-miles.* The aircraft miles flown on each flight stage multiplied by the seat capacity available for sale. 


(24) *410 Revenue aircraft miles flown.* Revenue aircraft miles flown are computed based on the airport pairs between which service is actually performed; miles are generated from the data for scheduled aircraft departures (Code 520) times the inter-airport distances (Code 501). 


(25) *430 Revenue aircraft miles scheduled.* The number of revenue aircraft miles scheduled. All such data shall be maintained in conformity with the airport pairs between which service is scheduled, whether or not in accordance with actual performance. 


(26) *501 Inter-airport distance.* The great circle distance, in official statute miles as prescribed in part 247 of this chapter, between airports served by each flight stage. Official inter-airport mileage may be obtained from the Office of Airline Information. 


(27) *510 Revenue aircraft departures performed.* The number of revenue aircraft departures performed. 


(28) *520 Revenue aircraft departures scheduled.* The number of revenue aircraft departures scheduled, whether or not actually performed. 


(29) *610 Revenue aircraft hours (airborne).* The elapsed time, computed from the moment the aircraft leaves the ground until its next landing. 


(30) *630 Aircraft hours (ramp-to-ramp).* The elapsed time, computed from the moment the aircraft first moves under its own power from the boarding ramp at one airport to the time it comes to rest at the ramp for the next point of landing. This data element is also referred to as ‘block’ and ‘block-to-block’ aircraft hours. 


(31) *650 Total aircraft hours (airborne).* The elapsed time, computed from the moment the aircraft leaves the ground until it touches down at the next landing. This includes flight training, testing, and ferry flights. 


(f) *Public availability of Schedule T-100 data.* Detailed domestic on-flight market and nonstop segment data in Schedule T-100, except military data, shall be publicly available after processing. Domestic data are defined as data from air transportation operations from a place in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession to a place in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, or a U.S. territory or possession. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. OST-98-4043, 67 FR 49227, July 30, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 41585, July 16, 2010; DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15933, Apr. 16, 2019]




