# ยง 25.141   Barrels and kegs.

(a) *General requirements.* The brewer's name or trade name and the place of production (city and, if necessary for identification, State) shall be permanently marked on each barrel or keg. If the place of production is clearly shown on the bung or on the tap cover, or on a label securely affixed to each barrel or keg, the place of production need not be permanently marked on each barrel or keg. No statement as to payment of internal revenue taxes may be shown.


(b) *Breweries of same ownership.* (1) If two or more breweries are owned or operated by the same person, firm, or corporation (as defined in ยง 25.181), the place of production:


(i) May be shown as the only location on the bung, or on the tap cover, or on a separate label attached to the keg;


(ii) May be included in a listing of the locations of breweries qualified under this part if the place of production is not given less emphasis than any of the other locations; or


(iii) Need not be shown if the brewer's principal place of business is shown in lieu of any other location. The brewer's principal place of business will be the location of a brewery operated by the brewer and qualified under this part.


(2) If the location of two or more breweries is shown on the keg, bung, tap cover, or on a separate label attached to the keg (paragraph (b)(1)(ii)), or if the brewer's principal place of business is shown in lieu of the actual place of production (paragraph (b)(1)(iii)), the brewer shall indicate the actual place of production by printing, coding or other markings on the keg, bung, tap cover, or on a separate label attached to the keg. The coding system employed will permit an appropriate TTB officer to determine the place of production (including street address if two or more breweries are located in the same city) of the beer. The brewer must notify the appropriate TTB officer prior to employing a coding system.


(c) *Label approval required.* Labels or tap covers used by brewers shall be covered by certificates of label approval, Form 5100.31, when required by part 7 of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. ATF-225, 51 FR 8492, Mar. 12, 1986; T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5479, Jan. 19, 2001]




