# § 73.17   Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.

(a) *Purpose.* This section presents the requirements for completion of firearms background checks pursuant to Section 161A of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended (AEA) (42 U.S.C. 2201a), for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons at Commission-designated classes of facilities, radioactive material, or other property specified in § 73.15(c). Firearms background checks are intended to verify that such armed security personnel are not prohibited from receiving, possessing, transporting, importing, or using covered weapons under applicable Federal, State, or local law.


(b) *General Requirements.* (1) Licensees that have applied to the NRC under § 73.15 of this part for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority must comply with the provisions of this section. Such licensees must establish a Firearms Background Check Plan. Licensees must establish this plan as part of their overall NRC-approved Training and Qualification plan for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons.


(2) For the purposes of § 73.15 and this section only, the term security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons includes, but is not limited to, the following groups of individuals:


(i) Security officers using covered weapons to protect a Commission-designated facility, radioactive material, or other property;


(ii) Security officers undergoing firearms training on covered weapons;


(iii) Firearms-training instructors conducting training on covered weapons;


(iv) Armorers conducting maintenance, repair, and testing of covered weapons;


(v) Individuals with access to armories and weapons storage lockers containing covered weapons;


(vi) Individuals conducting inventories of enhanced weapons;


(vii) Individuals removing enhanced weapons from the site for repair, training, and escort-duty purposes; and


(viii) Individuals whose duties require access to covered weapons, whether the individuals are employed directly by the licensee or employed by a security contractor who provides security services to the licensee.


(3) The Firearms Background Check Plan must describe how the licensee will accomplish the following objectives:


(i) Completing firearms background checks for all security personnel whose duties require, or will require, access to covered weapons;


(ii) Establishing a process for completing initial, periodic, and break-in-service firearms background checks;


(iii) Defining the training objectives and modules for security personnel who are subject to firearms background checks;


(iv) Completing the initial and periodic training for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons;


(v) Maintaining records of completed firearms background checks, required training, and any supporting documents;


(vi) Maintaining records of a decision to remove security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons, due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event; and


(vii) Developing and implementing procedures for notifying the NRC of the removal of security personnel from access to covered weapons, due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event.


(4)(i) Licensees that have applied to the NRC for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority under § 73.15 must ensure that a satisfactory firearms background check has been completed for all security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons.


(ii) Security personal may continue to have access to covered weapons pending the results of the initial firearms background check.


(5) Only licensees that have applied for Section 161A authority under § 73.15 may conduct the firearms background checks required by this section.


(6) The licensee must commence firearms background checks only after receiving notification from the NRC that the agency has accepted for review its application for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.


(7)(i) Applicants for a license who have also submitted an application for Section 161A authority must only commence firearms background checks after:


(A) The NRC has issued its license; and


(B) The NRC has accepted its application for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority for review.


(ii) Subsequent to April 13, 2023, applicants for a license who have also applied for Section 161A authority and been issued their license must ensure that a satisfactory firearms background check (as defined in § 73.2) has been completed for all security personnel who require access to covered weapons, before the licensee's initial receipt of any source material, special nuclear material, or radioactive material specified under the license.


(8) In response to an adverse firearms background check (as defined in § 73.2),


(i) The licensee must remove, without delay, from duties requiring access to covered weapons, any security personnel who receive a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response.


(ii) If the security personnel to be removed is on duty at the time of removal, then the licensee must fill the vacated position within the timeframe specified in its physical security plan.


(9)(i) The licensee must complete a new satisfactory firearms background check for any of its security personnel that has had a break-in-service greater than 1 week.


(ii) The licensee must complete a new satisfactory firearms background check if the security personnel has transferred from a different licensee.


(iii) A break-in-service means the security personnel's cessation of employment with the licensee or its security contractor, notwithstanding that the previous licensee completed a satisfactory firearms background check on the individual within the last 5 years.


(iv) Exceptions: (A) For the purposes of this section, a break-in-service does not include a security personnel's temporary active duty with the U.S. military reserves or National Guard.


(B) The licensee, in lieu of completing a new satisfactory firearms background check, may instead verify, via an industry-wide information-sharing database, that the security personnel has completed a satisfactory firearms background check within the previous 12 months, provided that this previous firearms background check included a duty station location in the State or Territory where the licensee (who would otherwise be accomplishing the firearms background check) is located or the activity is solely occurring.


(10) Changes in the licensee's ownership or its security contractor services are not considered a break-in-service for current security personnel whose duties require access to covered weapons. Licensees are not required to conduct a new firearms background check for these security personnel.


(11) With regard to accomplishing the requirements for other background (e.g., criminal history records) checks or personnel security investigations under the NRC's access authorization or personal security clearance program requirements of this chapter, the licensee may not substitute a satisfactory firearms background check in lieu of completing these other required background checks or security investigations.


(12) If a licensee has completed initial satisfactory firearms background checks pursuant to an NRC order issued before April 13, 2023, then the licensee is not required to conduct a new initial firearms background check for its current security personnel. However, the licensee must conduct initial firearms background checks on new security personnel and periodic and break-in-service firearms background checks on current security personnel in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(13) A licensee who withdraws its application for Section 161A authority or who has its application disapproved by the NRC, must discontinue conducting firearms background checks.


(14) A licensee whose authority under Section 161A has been rescinded or whose authority has been revoked by the NRC must discontinue conducting firearms background checks.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Firearms background check requirements.* A firearms background check for security personnel must include—


(1) A check of the individual's fingerprints against the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI's) fingerprint system; and


(2) A check of the individual's identifying information against the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS).


(e) *Firearms background check submittals.* (1) Licensees must submit to the NRC, in accordance with § 73.4, for all security personnel requiring a firearms background check under this section—


(i) A set of fingerprint impressions, in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section; and


(ii) A completed NRC Form 754.


(2) In lieu of submitting a copy of each individual completed NRC Form 754 to the NRC, licensees may submit a single document consolidating the NRC Forms 754 data for multiple security personnel.


(3) Licensees submitting to the NRC via an electronic method an individual NRC Form 754 or consolidated data from multiple NRC Forms 754 must ensure that any personally identifiable information contained within these documents is protected in accordance with § 2.390 of this chapter.


(4) Licensees must retain a copy of all NRC Forms 754 submitted to the NRC for one year subsequent to the termination or denial of an individual's access to covered weapons.


(5) Licensees that are Federal agencies with authority to submit fingerprints directly to the FBI may do so provided that they also include the requested information from NRC Form 754. However, such licensees are still required to comply with the other provisions of this section.


(f) *Periodic firearms background checks.* (1) Licensees must complete a satisfactory periodic firearms background check at least once every 5 calendar years for security personnel whose continuing duties require access to covered weapons.


(2) Licensees must complete a periodic firearms background check within the same calendar month as the initial, or most recent, firearms background check with an allowance period to midnight (local time) of the last day of the calendar month of expiration.


(3) The licensee may conduct periodic firearms background checks at an interval of less than once every 5 calendar years, at its discretion.


(4)(i) Licensees may assign security personnel to duties requiring access to covered weapons while the results of the periodic firearms background check are pending.


(ii) Licensees must remove security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons if the satisfactory completion of a periodic firearms background check does not occur before the expiration of the allowance period.


(5) Licensees must remove, without delay, from duties requiring access to covered weapons, any security personnel who receive either a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response during a periodic firearms background check.


(g) *Notification of removal.* (1) Licensees must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone within 72 hours after removing security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event that would prohibit them from possessing, receiving, or using firearms or ammunition. Licensees must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the phone numbers specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.


(2) The NRC will subsequently inform the FBI of any notifications received under this paragraph.


(h) *Security personnel responsibilities.* Security personnel assigned to duties requiring access to covered weapons must notify the licensee's security management within 72 hours of the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event that would prohibit the individual from possessing, receiving, or using firearms or ammunition. This requirement is applicable to security personnel directly employed by the licensee or employed by a contractor providing security services to the licensee.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Training for security personnel subject to firearms background checks on disqualifying status conditions and disqualifying events.* (1) Licensees must include, within their Firearms Background Check Plan, training modules for security personnel assigned to official duties requiring access to covered weapons that provide training on the following topics:


(i) Federal disqualifying status conditions or disqualifying events specified in 27 CFR 478.32;


(ii) Applicable State disqualifying status conditions or disqualifying events;


(iii) The responsibility of security personnel subject to a firearms background check and assigned to official duties that require access to covered weapons to promptly notify their employing licensee of the occurrence of any disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event; and


(iv) Information for appealing an adverse firearms background check (*i.e.,* a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response) to the FBI.


(2) Licensees must conduct periodic refresher training on these modules at an annual frequency for security personnel assigned official duties requiring access to covered weapons.


(k) *Procedures for processing fingerprint checks.* (1) Licensees, using an appropriate method listed in § 73.4, must manually or electronically submit to the NRC one completed, legible standard fingerprint card (FBI Form FD-258, ORIMDNRCOOOZ) or, where practicable, other electronic fingerprint records for each individual requiring a firearms background check. Information on how to obtain FBI Form FD-258 and the process for manual or electronic submission of fingerprint records to the NRC is on the NRC's public website at: *https://www.nrc.gov/security/chp.html.*

(2) Licensees must indicate on the fingerprint card (or other electronic fingerprint records) that the submittal is part of a firearms background check for personnel whose duties require, or will require, access to covered weapons. Licensees must add the following information to the FBI Form FD-258 fingerprint card or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC:


(i) For fingerprints submitted to the NRC for the completion of a firearms background check only, the licensee must enter the terms “MDNRCNICZ” in the “ORI” field and “Firearms” in the “Reasons Fingerprinted” field of the FBI Form FD-258 or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC.


(ii) For fingerprints submitted to the NRC for the completion of both an access authorization check or personnel security clearance check and a firearms background check, the licensee must enter the terms “MDNRC000Z” in the “ORI” field and “Employment and Firearms” in the “Reasons Fingerprinted” field of the FBI Form FD-258 or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC.


(3) Licensees must establish procedures that produce high-quality fingerprint images, cards, and records with a minimal rejection rate.


(4) The NRC will review fingerprints for firearms background checks for completeness. Any FBI Form FD-258 or other electronic fingerprint records containing omissions or evident errors will be returned to the licensee for correction. The fee for processing fingerprint checks includes one free resubmission if the initial submission is returned by the FBI because the fingerprint impressions cannot be classified. The one free resubmission must have the FBI Transaction Control Number reflected on the resubmission. If additional submissions are necessary, they will be treated as an initial submittal and require a second payment of the processing fee. The payment of a new processing fee entitles the submitter to an additional free resubmittal, if necessary. Previously rejected submissions may not be included with the third submission because the submittal will be rejected automatically.


(5) The NRC will forward to the submitting licensee all data received from the FBI as a result of the licensee's application(s) for a firearms background check. This will include the FBI's “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied” NICS response and the NICS transaction number.


(l) [Reserved]


(m) *Fees.* (1) Fees for the processing of firearms background checks are due upon application. The fee for the processing of a firearms background check consists of a fingerprint fee and a NICS check fee. Licensees must submit payment with the application for the processing of fingerprints, and payment must be made payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The payments are to be made in U.S. funds using the electronic payment methods accepted at *www.Pay.gov.* Licensees can find fee information for firearms background checks on the NRC's public website at *https://www.nrc.gov/security/chp.html.*

(2) The application fee for the processing of fingerprint checks is the sum of the user fee charged by the FBI for each fingerprint card or other fingerprint records submitted by the NRC on behalf of a licensee, and an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC. The NRC processing fee covers administrative costs associated with NRC handling of licensee fingerprint submissions.


(3) The application fee for the processing of NICS checks is an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC.


(4) Licensees that are also Federal agencies and submit fingerprints and information contained in the NRC Form 754 directly to the FBI are not assessed an application fee by the NRC.


(n) *Processing of the NICS portion of a firearms background check.* (1) The NRC will forward the information contained in the submitted NRC Form 754 to the FBI for evaluation against the NICS databases. Upon completion of the NICS portion of the firearms background check, the FBI will inform the NRC of the results with one of three responses under 28 CFR part 25; “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied,” and the associated NICS transaction number (NTN). The NRC will forward these results and the associated NTN to the submitting licensee.


(2) Licensees that are Federal agencies and submit fingerprints and information contained in the NRC Form 754 directly to the FBI for evaluation against the NICS databases will receive one of three responses under 28 CFR part 25; “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied,” and the associated NTN.


(3) The submitting licensee must provide these results to the individual who completed the NRC Form 754.


(o) [Reserved]


(p) *Appeals and resolution of adverse firearms background checks.* (1) Licensees may not assign security personnel who have received a “denied” or a “delayed” NICS response to any official duties requiring access to covered weapons—


(i) During the pendency of an appeal to the FBI of a “denied” NICS response; or


(ii) During the pendency of providing to the FBI any necessary additional information to resolve a “delayed” NICS response.


(2) Licensees must provide the NICS Transaction Number (NTN) or NTNs associated with the adverse firearms background check to the affected individual. It is the affected individual's responsibility to initiate an appeal or resolution of a “delayed” or “denied” NICS response.


(3) Licensees may assign security personnel to official duties requiring access to covered weapons subsequent to the individual's satisfactorily resolving a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response.


(q) *Protection of information.* (1) Each licensee that obtains a firearms background check and NRC Form 754 information on individuals under this section shall establish and maintain a system of files and procedures to protect these records and any enclosed personally identifiable information (PII) from unauthorized disclosure.


(2) The licensee may not disclose these records or PII to persons other than the subject individual, his/her representative, or to those with a need to have access to the information in performing assigned duties in the process of granting access to covered weapons. No individual authorized to have access to this information may disseminate the information to any other individual who does not have a need to know.


(3) The record or PII may be disclosed to an appropriate Federal or State agency in the performance of its official duties, in the course of an administrative or judicial proceeding, or in response to a Congressional inquiry.


(4) The licensee must make firearms background check records and NRC Forms 754 obtained under this section available for examination by an authorized representative of the NRC to determine compliance with applicable regulations and laws.


(5) The record obtained on an individual from a firearms background check may be transferred to another licensee—


(i) Upon an individual's written request to transfer the individual's record to the licensee identified in the written request; and


(ii) Upon verification from the gaining licensee of the individual's name, date of birth, social security number, and sex.


(r) *Withdrawal of orders.* In accordance with the provisions of § 73.15(s), orders issued under Section 161A (42 U.S.C. 2201a) prior to April 13, 2023 are withdrawn. Accordingly, the requirements of those orders are superseded in their entirety by the requirements of §§ 73.15 and 73.17.



---

[N] [88 FR 15882, Mar. 14, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 51810, June 20, 2024]










