# § 173.65   Exceptions for Division 1.4G consumer fireworks.

(a) Notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 173.56(b), 173.56(f), 173.56(i), and 173.64, Division 1.4G consumer fireworks may be offered for transportation provided the following conditions are met:


(1) The fireworks are manufactured in accordance with the applicable requirements in APA 87-1A (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter);


(2) The device must pass a thermal stability test. The test must be performed by maintaining the device, or a representative prototype of the device, at a temperature of 75 °C (167  °F) for 48 consecutive hours. When a device contains more than one component, those components that could be in physical contact with each other in the finished device must be placed in contact with each other during the thermal stability test;


(3) The manufacturer of the Division 1.4G consumer firework applies in writing to a DOT-approved Fireworks Certification Agency, and is notified in writing by the DOT-approved Fireworks Certification Agency that the firework has been:


(i) Certified that it complies with APA 87-1A, and meets the requirements of this section; and


(ii) Assigned an FC number.


(4) The manufacturer's application must be complete and include:


(i) Detailed diagram of the device;


(ii) Complete list of the chemical compositions, formulations and quantities used in the device;


(iii) Results of the thermal stability test; and


(iv) Signed certification declaring that the device for which certification is requested conforms to the APA 87-1A, that the descriptions and technical information contained in the application are complete and accurate, and that no duplicate applications have been submitted to PHMSA. If the application is denied, the Fireworks Certification Agency must notify the manufacturer in writing of the reasons for the denial. As detailed in the DOT-approval issued to the Fireworks Certification Agency, following the issuance of a denial from a Fireworks Certification Agency, a manufacturer may seek reconsideration from the Fireworks Certification Agency, or may appeal the reconsideration decision of the Fireworks Certification Agency to the PHMSA Administrator.


(b) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Following the certification of each Division 1.4G consumer firework as permitted by paragraph (a) of this section, the manufacturer and importer must maintain a paper record or an electronic image of the certificate, demonstrating compliance with this section. Each record must clearly provide the unique identifier assigned to the firework device and the Fireworks Certification Agency that certified the device. The record must be accessible at or through its principal place of business and be made available, upon request, to an authorized official of a Federal, State, or local government agency at a reasonable time and location. Copies of certification records must be maintained by each importer, manufacturer, or a foreign manufacturer's U.S. agent, for five (5) years after the device is imported. The certification record must be made available to a representative of PHMSA upon request.



---

[N] [78 FR 42477, July 16, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 75713, Nov. 25, 2020]




