# § 1356.85   Compliance.

(a) *File submission standards.* A State agency must submit a data file in accordance with the following file submission standards:


(1) *Timely data.* The data file must be received in accordance with the reporting period and timeline described in section 1356.83(a) of this part;


(2) *Format.* The data file must be in a format that meets ACF's specifications; and


(3) *Error-free information.* The file must contain data in the general and demographic elements described in section 1356.83(g)(1) through (g)(5), (g)(14), and (g)(36) of this part that is 100 percent error-free as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Data standards.* A State agency also must submit a file that meets the following data standards:


(1) *Error-free.* The data for the applicable demographic, service and outcomes elements defined in section 1356.83(g)(6) through (13), (g)(15) through (35) and (g)(37) through (58) of this part must be 90 percent error-free as described and assessed according to paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Outcomes universe.* In any Federal fiscal year for which the State agency is required to submit information on the follow-up population, the State agency must submit a youth record containing at least outcomes data for the outcomes status element described in section 1356.83(g)(34) of this part on each youth for whom the State agency reported outcome information as part of the baseline population. Alternatively, if the State agency has elected to conduct sampling in accordance with section 1356.84 of this part, the State agency must submit a record containing at least outcomes data for the outcomes status element described in section 1356.83(g)(34) of this part on each 19-year-old youth in the follow-up population, inclusive of those youth who are not in the sample, and each 21-year-old youth in the follow-up sample.


(3) *Outcomes participation rate.* The State agency must report outcome information on each youth in the follow-up population at the rates described in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. A youth has participated in the outcomes data collection if the State agency collected and reported a valid response (i.e., a response option other than “declined” or “not applicable”) to any of the outcomes-related elements described in section 1356.83(g)(37) through (g)(58) of this part. ACF will exclude from the calculation of the participation rate any youth in the follow-up population who is reported as deceased, incapacitated or incarcerated in section 1356.83(g)(34) at the time information on the follow-up population is required.


(i) *Foster care youth participation rate.* The State agency must report outcome information on at least 80 percent of youth in the follow-up population who are in foster care on the date of outcomes data collection as indicated in section 1356.83(g)(35) and (g)(36) of this part.


(ii) *Discharged youth participation rate.* The State agency must report outcome information on at least 60 percent of youth in the follow-up population who are not in foster care on the date of outcomes data collection as indicated in section 1356.83(g)(35) and (g)(36) of this part.


(iii) *Effect of sampling on participation rates.* For State agencies electing to sample in accordance with section 1356.84 and appendix C of this part, ACF will apply the outcome participation rates in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section to the required sample size for the State.


(c) *Errors.* ACF will assess each State agency's data file for the following types of errors: Missing data, out-of-range data, or internally inconsistent data. The amount of errors acceptable for each reporting period is described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(1) Missing data is any element that has a blank response when a blank response is not a valid response option as described in section 1356.83(g) of this part.


(2) Out-of-range data is any element that contains a value that is outside the parameters of acceptable responses or exceeds, either positively or negatively, the acceptable range of response options as described in section 1356.83(g) of this part; and


(3) Internally inconsistent data is any element that fails an internal consistency check designed to evaluate the logical relationship between elements in each record. The evaluation will identify all elements involved in a particular check as in error.


(d) *Review for compliance.* (1) ACF will determine whether a State agency's data file for each reporting period is in compliance with the file submission standards and data standards in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(i) For State agencies that achieve the file submission standards, ACF will determine whether the State agency's data file meets the data standards.


(ii) For State agencies that do not achieve the file submission standards or data standards, ACF will notify the State agency that they have an opportunity to submit a corrected data file by the end of the subsequent reporting period in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) ACF may use monitoring tools or assessment procedures to determine whether the State agency is meeting all the requirements of section 1356.81 through 1356.85 of this part.


(e) *Submitting corrected data and noncompliance.* A State agency that does not submit a data file that meets the standards in section 1356.85 of this part will have an opportunity to submit a corrected data file in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.


(1) A State agency must submit a corrected data file no later than the end of the subsequent reporting period as defined in section 1356.83(a) of this part (i.e., by September 30 or March 31).


(2) If a State agency fails to submit a corrected data file that meets the compliance standards in section 1356.85 of this part and the deadline in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, ACF will make a final determination that the State is out of compliance, notify the State agency, and apply penalties as defined in section 1356.86 of this part.



---

[N] [73 FR 10365, Feb. 26, 2008]




