# ยง 1312.28   Transmission of classified material.

Prior to the transmission of classified material to offices outside OMB, such material will be enclosed in opaque inner and outer covers or envelopes. The inner cover will be sealed and marked with the classification, and the address of the sender and of the addressee. The receipt for the document, OMB Form 87, (not required for Confidential material) will be attached to or placed within the inner envelope to be signed by the recipient and returned to the sender. Receipts will identify the sender, the addressee, and the document, and will contain no classified information. The outer cover or envelope will be sealed and addressed with no identification of its contents. 


(a) *Transmittal of Top Secret material.* The transmittal of Top Secret material shall be by personnel specifically designated by the EOP Security Officer, or by Department of State diplomatic pouch, by a messenger-courier system specifically created for that purpose. Alternatively, it shall be taken to the White House Situation Room for transmission over secure communications circuits. 


(b) *Transmittal of Secret material.* The transmittal of Secret material shall be as follows: 


(1) Within and between the fifty States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico: Use one of the authorized means for Top Secret material, or transmit by U.S. Postal Service express or registered mail. 


(2) Other Areas. Use the same means authorized for Top Secret, or transmit by U.S. registered mail through Military Postal Service facilities. 


(c) *Transmittal of Confidential material.* As identified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or transmit by U.S. Postal Service Certified, first class, or express mail service within and between the fifty States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. 


(d) *Transmittal between OMB offices and within the EOP complex.* Classified material will normally be hand carried within and between offices in the Executive Office of the President complex by cleared OMB employees. Documents so carried must be protected by the appropriate cover sheet or outer envelope. Top Secret material will always be hand carried in this manner. Secret and Confidential material may be transmitted between offices in the EOP complex by preparing the material as indicated above (double envelope) and forwarding it by special messenger service provided by the messenger center. The messenger shall be advised that the material is classified. Receipts shall be obtained if Top Secret or Secret material is being transmitted outside of OMB. Classified material will never be transmitted in the Standard Messenger Envelope (SF Form 65), or by the Mail Stop system. 




