# § 4290.1620   Functions of agents, including Central Registration Agent, Selling Agent and Fiscal Agent.

(a) *Agents.* The Agency may appoint or cause to be appointed agent(s) to perform functions necessary to market and service Debentures or TCs pursuant to this part.


(1) *Selling Agent.* As a condition of guaranteeing a Debenture, the Agency may cause each RBIC to appoint a Selling Agent to perform functions that include, but are not limited to:


(i) Selecting qualified entities to become pool or Trust assemblers (“Poolers”).


(ii) Receiving guaranteed Debentures as well as negotiating the terms and conditions of sales or periodic offerings of Debentures and/or TCs on behalf of RBICs.


(iii) Directing and coordinating periodic sales of Debentures and/or TCs.


(iv) Arranging for the production of Offering Circulars, certificates, and such other documents as may be required from time to time.


(2) *Fiscal Agent.* The Agency shall appoint a Fiscal Agent to:


(i) Establish performance criteria for Poolers.


(ii) Monitor and evaluate the financial markets to determine those factors that will minimize or reduce the cost of funding Debentures.


(iii) Monitor the performance of the Selling Agent, Poolers, CRA, and the Trustee.


(iv) Perform such other functions as the Agency, from time to time, may prescribe.


(3) *Central Registration Agent.* Pursuant to a contract entered into with the Agency, the CRA, as the Agency's agent, will do the following with respect to the Pools or Trust Certificates for the Debentures:


(i) Form an approved Pool or Trust;


(ii) Issue the TCs in the prescribed form;


(iii) Transfer the TCs upon the sale of original issue TCs in any secondary market transaction;


(iv) Receive payments from RBICs;


(v) Make periodic payments as scheduled or required by the terms of the TCs, and pay all amounts required to be paid upon prepayment of Debentures;


(vi) Hold, safeguard, and release all Debentures constituting Trusts or Pools upon instructions from the Agency;


(vii) Remain custodian of such other documentation as the Agency shall direct by written instructions;


(viii) Provide for the registration of all pooled Debentures, all Pools and Trusts, and all TCs; and


(ix) Perform such other functions as the Agency may deem necessary to implement the provisions of this section.


(b) *Functions.* Either the Agency or an agent appointed by the Agency may perform the function of locating purchasers, and negotiating and closing the sale of Debentures and TCs. Nothing in the regulations in this part shall be interpreted to prevent the CRA from acting as the Agency's agent for this purpose.




