# § 160.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* This part governs the treatment of nonpublic personal information about consumers by the financial institutions listed in paragraph (b) of this section. This part: 


(1) Requires a financial institution to provide notice to customers about its privacy policies and practices; 


(2) Describes the conditions under which a financial institution may disclose nonpublic personal information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties; and


(3) Provides a method for consumers to prevent a financial institution from disclosing nonpublic personal information to most nonaffiliated third parties by “opting out” of that disclosure, subject to the exceptions in §§ 160.13, 160.14, and 160.15. 


(b) *Scope.* This part applies only to nonpublic personal information about individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for personal, family, or household purposes from the institutions listed below. This part does not apply to information about companies or about individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes. This part applies to all futures commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers that are subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, regardless whether they are required to register with the Commission. These entities are hereinafter referred to in this part as “you.” This part does not apply to foreign (non-resident) futures commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers that are not registered with the Commission.



---

[N] [66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 55450, Sept. 10, 2010; 76 FR 43878, July 22, 2011]




