# § 63.2495   How do I comply with the pollution prevention standard?

(a) You may elect to comply with the pollution prevention alternative requirements specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section in lieu of the emission limitations and work practice standards contained in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart for any MCPU for which initial startup occurred before April 4, 2002. 


(1) You must reduce the production-indexed HAP consumption factor (HAP factor) by at least 65 percent from a 3-year average baseline beginning no earlier than the 1994 through 1996 calendar years. For any reduction in the HAP factor that you achieve by reducing HAP that are also volatile organic compounds (VOC), you must demonstrate an equivalent reduction in the production-indexed VOC consumption factor (VOC factor) on a mass basis. For any reduction in the HAP factor that you achieve by reducing a HAP that is not a VOC, you may not increase the VOC factor. 


(2) Any MCPU for which you seek to comply by using the pollution prevention alternative must begin with the same starting material(s) and end with the same product(s). You may not comply by eliminating any steps of a process by transferring the step offsite (to another manufacturing location). You may also not merge a solvent recovery step conducted offsite to onsite and as part of an existing process as a method of reducing consumption. 


(3) You may comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a series of processes, including situations where multiple processes are merged, if you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the multiple processes were merged after the baseline period into an existing process or processes. 


(b) *Exclusions.* (1) You must comply with the emission limitations and work practice standards contained in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart for all HAP that are generated in the MCPU and that are not included in consumption, as defined in § 63.2550. If any vent stream routed to the combustion control is a halogenated vent stream, as defined in § 63.2550, then hydrogen halides that are generated as a result of combustion control must be controlled according to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4) and the requirements of § 63.994 and the requirements referenced therein.


(2) You may not merge nondedicated formulation or nondedicated solvent recovery processes with any other processes. 


(c) *Initial compliance procedures.* To demonstrate initial compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, you must prepare a demonstration summary in accordance with paragraph (c) (1) of this section and calculate baseline and target annual HAP and VOC factors in accordance with paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section. 


(1) *Demonstration plan.* You must prepare a pollution prevention demonstration plan that contains, at a minimum, the information in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (iii) of this section for each MCPU for which you comply with paragraph (a) of this section. 


(i) Descriptions of the methodologies and forms used to measure and record consumption of HAP and VOC compounds. 


(ii) Descriptions of the methodologies and forms used to measure and record production of the product(s). 


(iii) Supporting documentation for the descriptions provided in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section including, but not limited to, samples of operator log sheets and daily, monthly, and/or annual inventories of materials and products. You must describe how this documentation will be used to calculate the annual factors required in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) *Baseline factors.* You must calculate baseline HAP and VOC factors by dividing the consumption of total HAP and total VOC by the production rate, per process, for the first 3-year period in which the process was operational, beginning no earlier than the period consisting of the 1994 through 1996 calendar years. 


(3) *Target annual factors.* You must calculate target annual HAP and VOC factors. The target annual HAP factor must be equal to 35 percent of the baseline HAP factor. The target annual VOC factor must be lower than the baseline VOC factor by an amount equivalent to the reduction in any HAP that is also a VOC, on a mass basis. The target annual VOC factor may be the same as the baseline VOC factor if the only HAP you reduce is not a VOC. 


(d) *Continuous compliance requirements.* You must calculate annual rolling average values of the HAP and VOC factors (annual factors) in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (d) (1) through (3) of this section. To show continuous compliance, the annual factors must be equal to or less than the target annual factors calculated according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 


(1) To calculate the annual factors, you must divide the consumption of both total HAP and total VOC by the production rate, per process, for 12-month periods at the frequency specified in either paragraph (d) (2) or (3) of this section, as applicable. 


(2) For continuous processes, you must calculate the annual factors every 30 days for the 12-month period preceding the 30th day (i.e., annual rolling average calculated every 30 days). A process with both batch and continuous operations is considered a continuous process for the purposes of this section. 


(3) For batch processes, you must calculate the annual factors every 10 batches for the 12-month period preceding the 10th batch (*i.e.,* annual rolling average calculated every 10 batches), except as specified in paragraphs (d)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) If you produce more than 10 batches during a month, you must calculate the annual factors at least once during that month. 


(ii) If you produce less than 10 batches in a 12-month period, you must calculate the annual factors for the number of batches in the 12-month period since the previous calculations.


(e) *Records.* You must keep records of HAP and VOC consumption, production, and the rolling annual HAP and VOC factors for each MCPU for which you are complying with paragraph (a) of this section. 


(f) *Reporting.* (1) You must include the pollution prevention demonstration plan in the precompliance report required by § 63.2520(c). 


(2) You must identify all days when the annual factors were above the target factors in the compliance reports. 



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 40336, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49150, Aug. 12, 2020]




