# § 1026.52   Limitations on fees.

(a) *Limitations during first year after account opening*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the total amount of fees a consumer is required to pay with respect to a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan during the first year after account opening must not exceed 25 percent of the credit limit in effect when the account is opened. For purposes of this paragraph, an account is considered open no earlier than the date on which the account may first be used by the consumer to engage in transactions.


(2) *Fees not subject to limitations.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:


(i) Late payment fees, over-the-limit fees, and returned-payment fees; or


(ii) Fees that the consumer is not required to pay with respect to the account.


(3) *Rule of construction.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize the imposition or payment of fees or charges otherwise prohibited by law.






(b) *Limitations on penalty fees.* A card issuer must not impose a fee for violating the terms or other requirements of a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan unless the dollar amount of the fee is consistent with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a card issuer may impose a fee for violating the terms or other requirements of a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan if the dollar amount of the fee is consistent with either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) *Fees based on costs.* A card issuer may impose a fee for violating the terms or other requirements of an account if the card issuer has determined that the dollar amount of the fee represents a reasonable proportion of the total costs incurred by the card issuer as a result of that type of violation. A card issuer must reevaluate this determination at least once every twelve months. If as a result of the reevaluation the card issuer determines that a lower fee represents a reasonable proportion of the total costs incurred by the card issuer as a result of that type of violation, the card issuer must begin imposing the lower fee within 45 days after completing the reevaluation. If as a result of the reevaluation the card issuer determines that a higher fee represents a reasonable proportion of the total costs incurred by the card issuer as a result of that type of violation, the card issuer may begin imposing the higher fee after complying with the notice requirements in § 1026.9.




(ii) *Safe harbors.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section, a card issuer may impose a fee for a late payment on an account if the dollar amount of the fee does not exceed $8. A card issuer may impose a fee for other types of violations of the terms or other requirements of an account if the dollar amount of the fee does not exceed, as applicable:


(A) $32;


(B) $43 if the card issuer previously imposed a fee pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section for a violation of the same type that occurred during the same billing cycle or one of the next six billing cycles; or


(C) Three percent of the delinquent balance on a charge card account that requires payment of outstanding balances in full at the end of each billing cycle if the card issuer has not received the required payment for two or more consecutive billing cycles, notwithstanding the limitation on the amount of a late payment fee in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(D) The amounts in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section will be adjusted annually by the Bureau to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index.


(E) A smaller card issuer, as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, may impose a fee for a late payment on an account if the dollar amount of the fee does not exceed the amount in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, as applicable, notwithstanding the limitation on the amount of a late payment fee in this paragraph (b)(1)(ii).








(2) *Prohibited fees*—(i) *Fees that exceed dollar amount associated with violation*—(A) *Generally.* A card issuer must not impose a fee for violating the terms or other requirements of a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan that exceeds the dollar amount associated with the violation.


(B) *No dollar amount associated with violation.* A card issuer must not impose a fee for violating the terms or other requirements of a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan when there is no dollar amount associated with the violation. For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, there is no dollar amount associated with the following violations:


(*1*) Transactions that the card issuer declines to authorize;


(*2*) Account inactivity; and


(*3*) The closure or termination of an account.


(ii) *Multiple fees based on a single event or transaction.* A card issuer must not impose more than one fee for violating the terms or other requirements of a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan based on a single event or transaction. A card issuer may, at its option, comply with this prohibition by imposing no more than one fee for violating the terms or other requirements of an account during a billing cycle.


(3) *Smaller card issuer.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, a card issuer is a smaller card issuer for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section if the card issuer together with its affiliates had fewer than one million open credit card accounts, as defined in § 1026.58(b)(6), for the entire preceding calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), *affiliate* means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company, as set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 *et seq.*).


(ii) If a card issuer together with its affiliates had fewer than one million open credit card accounts for the entire preceding calendar year but meets or exceeds that number of open credit card accounts in the current calendar year, the card issuer will no longer be a smaller card issuer for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section as of 60 days after meeting or exceeding that number of open credit card accounts.





---

[N] [76 FR 79772, Dec. 22, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 18797, Mar. 28, 2013; 78 FR 76035, Dec. 16, 2013; 79 FR 48017, Aug. 15, 2014; 80 FR 56898, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 41421, June 27, 2016; 81 FR 84370, Nov. 22, 2016; 83 FR 43505, Aug. 27, 2018; 84 FR 37567, Aug. 1, 2019; 86 FR 60360, Nov. 2, 2021; 89 FR 19202, Mar. 15, 2024]




