# § 721.1550   Benzenediazonium, 4-(dimethylamino)-, salt with 2-hydroxy-5-sulfobenzoic acid (1:1).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenediazonium, 4-(dimethylamino)-, salt with 2-hydroxy-5-sulfobenzoic acid (1:1) (CAS No. 124737-31-1) (P-90-1366) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5). In addition, the following human health hazard statement shall appear on each label as specified at § 721.72(b) and the SDS as specified at § 721.72(c). Additional statements may be included as long as they are true and do not alter the meaning of the required statement. Human health hazard statements: This substance may cause severe acute toxicity and death or serious neurotoxic effects. 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p) (volume set at 31,000 kg). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 80 ppb). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40211, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




