# § 161.3   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.


*20/20/20, 20/20/15, or 10/20/10.* See definition of “former spouse.”


*Abused dependent.* Dependents of active duty uniformed service members:


(1) Entitled to retired pay based on 20 or more years of service who, on or after October 23, 1992, while a member, are eligible to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct involving the abuse of the spouse or dependent child pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408(h); or


(2) Not entitled to retired pay, who have received a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, dismissal from a uniformed service as a result of a court martial conviction for an offense involving physical or emotional abuse of a spouse or child, or were administratively discharged as a result of such an offense, separated on or after November 30, 1993.


*Access to a DoD network.* User logon to a Windows active directory account on the Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) or an authorized network operating system account on the NIPRNet.


*Access to a DoD network (remote).* Authorized NIPRNet users accessing a NIPRNet resource from:


(1) Another NIPRNet resource outside of the originating domain; or


(2) An authorized system that resides outside of the NIPRNet. This includes domain-level access from handheld devices. Remote access includes logon for the purposes of telework, Virtual Private Network, and remote administration by DoD or non-DoD personnel.


*Active duty.* Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. This includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. Active duty does not include full-time National Guard duty.


*Active duty for a period of more than 30 days.* Active duty under a call or order that does not specify a period of 30 days or less. When the “Active Duty for a Period of More than 30 Days” is established by consecutive sets of orders, their eligible dependents become entitled to TRICARE medical benefits on the first day of the set of orders that brings the period of active duty over 30 days.


*Adopted child.* A child adopted before the age of 21 or, if enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning, before the age of 23. Except for entitlement to medical care, a child with an incapacitating condition that existed before the age of 21 or that occurred while the child was a full-time student prior to the age of 23, may be adopted at any age provided it is determined that there is a BONA FIDE parent-child relationship. Surviving children adopted by a non-military member after the death of the sponsor remain eligible for medical care only.


*Annulled.* The status of an individual, whose marriage has been declared a nullity by a court of competent jurisdiction, that restores unremarried status to a widow, widower, or former spouse for reinstatement of benefits.


*Annulment decree.* An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that grants an annulment of a marriage.


*Attainment of age 65.* The first day of the month of the anniversary of the 65th birthday, unless the birthday falls on the first of the month. If the birthday is the first of the month, attainment of age 65 occurs on the first day of the preceding month.


*Benefits.* Entitlements or privileges that are assigned to a person or group of persons.


*CAC PIN reset (CPR).* A portable, single-purpose system capable of providing timely PIN reset capability to the field without requiring a Common Access Card (CAC) holder to return to a CAC issuance facility (i.e. Real-Time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS), workstation).


*Certificate of live birth.* A certificate authenticated by an attending physician or other responsible person from a U.S. hospital or a military treatment facility showing the name of at least one parent.


*Certified document.* A document that is certified as a true original and:


(1) Conveys the appropriate seal or markings of the issuer;


(2) Has a means to validate the authenticity of the document by a reference or source number;


(3) Is a notarized legal document or other document approved by a Judge Advocate, other members of the armed forces designated by law and regulations to have the powers set forth in 10 U.S.C 1044a, or other eligible persons in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044a; or


(4) Has the appropriate certificate of authentication by a U.S. Consular Officer in the foreign country of issuance which attests to the authenticity of the signature and seal.


*Certified English translation.* See requirements for certified document.


*CHC.* Medical care provided through the TRICARE program including networks of CHC professionals, institutions, pharmacies, and suppliers to provide access to high-quality health care services.


*Child.* A legitimate child, illegitimate child, stepchild, or adopted child of the sponsor, who is younger than 21 years of age. If 21 or older, the child may remain eligible if the child is:


(1) 21 or 22 years old and enrolled in a full-time course of higher learning;


(2) 21 or older but incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before the 21st birthday; or


(3) 21 or 22 years old and was enrolled full-time in an accredited institution of higher learning but became incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical condition while a full-time student.


*Civilian employee.* DoD civilian employees, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105 are individuals appointed to positions by designated officials. Appointments to appropriated fund positions are either permanent or time-limited and the employees are on full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedules. In some instances, the appointments are seasonal with either a full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedule. Positions are categorized further as Senior Executive Service (SES), Competitive Service, and Excepted Service positions. In addition, DoD employs individuals paid from NAFs, as well as foreign national citizens outside the United States, its territories, and its possessions, in DoD activities overseas. The terms and conditions of host-nation citizen employment are governed by controlling treaties, agreements, and memoranda of understanding with the foreign nations.


*Civilian noncombatant personnel.* Personnel who have been authorized to accompany military forces of the United States in regions of conflict, combat, and contingency operations and who are liable to capture and detention by the enemy as POWs.


*Commissary.* A benefit granted to eligible personnel in accordance with this part and DoD Instruction 1330.17 (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133017p.pdf*).


*Competitive service positions.* See 5 U.S.C. 2102.


*Contingency operation.* Defined in Joint Publication 1-02 (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_pubs/jp1_02.pdf*).


*Contractor employee.* An employee of a firm, or individual under contract or subcontract to the DoD, designated as providing services or support to the Department.


*Contractors authorized to accompany the force.* Defined in Joint Publication 1-02.


*Cross-servicing.* Agreement amongst all uniformed services to assist Service members, regardless of the Service member's responsible uniformed service, and their dependents, for all ID card or benefits-related matters, when appropriate and not restricted by subpart B of this part.


*Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS).* The definitive centralized person data repository of identity and enrollment and eligibility verification data and associated contact information on members of the DoD Components, members of the Uniformed Services, and other personnel as designated by the DoD, and their eligible dependents and associated contact information.


*Dependent.* An individual whose relationship to the sponsor leads to entitlement to benefits and privileges.


*Direct Care (DC).* Medical care that TRICARE provides through the health care resources of the uniformed services through their clinics and MTFs. This does not include any medical care provided through the TRICARE CHC network.


*Dissolution decree.* An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that grants dissolution of a marriage.


*Divorce decree.* An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that grants termination of a marriage.


*Dual eligible.* A person who is entitled to Medicare Part A and enrolled in Medicare Part B and is also entitled to TRICARE medical benefits, in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 106-398 and Public Law 102-190, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993” (available at *http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c102:./temp/∼c102UvpYbH*).


*Dual status.* A person who is entitled to privileges from two sources (e.g., a retired member, who is also the dependent of an active duty member; a retired-with-pay member who is employed overseas as a civilian by the U.S. Government and is qualified for logistical support because of that civilian employment; a member of a Reserve Component who is an eligible dependent of an active duty military sponsor; or a child, who is the natural child of one sponsor and the stepchild and member of a household of another sponsor).


*Eligibility documentation.* Properly certified birth certificate or certificate of live birth authenticated by attending physician or other responsible person from a U.S. hospital or a MTF showing the name of at least one parent; properly certified marriage certification; properly certified final decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment of marriage and statements attesting to nonremarriage and status of employer-sponsored healthcare; court order for adoption or guardianship; statement of incapacity from a physician or personnel or medical headquarters of sponsor's parent uniformed service; letter from school registrar; retirement orders (providing entitlement to retired pay is established) or DD Form 214 “Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty;” DD Form 1300, “Report of Casualty;” certification from the Department of Veterans' Affairs of 100 percent disabled status; orders awarding Medal of Honor (MOH); formal determination of eligibility for Medicare Part A benefits from the Social Security Administration (SSA); civilian personnel records; and invitational travel orders.


*Entitlements.* Rights or authorities that are provided based on legislative statute.


*Entry level separation.* As defined in DoD Instruction 1332.14, “Enlisted Administrative Separations” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133214p.pdf*), an enlisted service member is considered in an entry-level status during the first 180 days of continuous active military service, or the first 180 days of continuous active service after a service break of more than 92 days of active service. A Service member of a Reserve Component who is not on active duty or who is serving under a call or order to active duty for 180 days or less begins entry-level status upon enlistment in a Reserve Component. Entry-level status for such a Service member of a Reserve Component terminates as follows:


(1) 180 days after beginning training if the Service member is ordered to active duty for training for one continuous period of 180 days or more; or


(2) 90 days after the beginning of the second period of active duty training if the Service member is ordered to active duty for training under a program that splits the training into two or more separate periods of active duty. For the purposes of characterization of service or description of separation, the Service member's status is determined by the date of notification as to the initiation of separation proceedings.


*Excepted service positions.* Defined in 5 U.S.C. 2103.


*Exchange.* A benefit that is extended to eligible individuals in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.21.


*Family member.* An individual who receives benefits based on his or her association to a sponsor. A family member is often a dependent.


*Federal employee.* Defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105.


*Federally controlled facility.* Defined in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-05-24, “Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12—Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at *http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/fy2005/m05-24.pdf*).


*Federally controlled information systems.* (1) An information technology system (or information system), as defined by the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3502(8)).


(2) Information systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organization on behalf of an agency (44 U.S.C. 3544(a)(1)(A)).


*Financial dependency determination.* Service-level process used to determine whether the financial dependency of a dependent on a sponsor meets the requirement for benefits eligibility.


*Foreign affiliate.* A foreign national, including foreign civilian, foreign contractor, or foreign uniformed services personnel, who is sponsored by their government in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.20, “Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523020p.pdf*) through an assignment, temporary duty, school, training, policy board, or other defined agreement to work or reside on a DoD facility, or require access to DoD networks on-site or remotely.


*Former member.* An individual who is eligible to receive retired pay, at age 60, for non-regular service pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 1223 but who has been discharged and who maintains no military affiliation. These former members, at age 60, and their eligible dependents are entitled to medical care, commissary, exchange, and MWR privileges. Under age 60, they and their eligible dependents are entitled to commissary, exchange, and MWR privileges only.


*Former spouse.* An individual who was married to a uniformed services member for at least 20 years, and the member had at least 20 years of service creditable toward retirement, and the marriage overlapped as follows:


(1) 20 years marriage, 20 years creditable service for retirement, and 20 years overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 20/20/20). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce;


(2) 20 years marriage, 20 years creditable service for retirement, and 15 years overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 20/20/15). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce; or


(3) A spouse whose marriage was terminated from a uniformed service member who has their eligibility to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct based on Service-documented abuse of the spouse and has 10 years of marriage, 20 years of creditable service for retirement, 10 years of overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 10/20/10). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce.


*Foster child.* A child without parental support and protection, placed with a person or family, usually by local welfare services or by court order. The foster parent(s) do not have custody, nor is there an adoption, but they are expected to treat the foster child as they would their own in regard to food, housing, clothing, and education. This is a non-medically entitled dependent.


*Full-time student.* A child who has not attained the age of 23, who is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, dependent on the member or former member for more than 50 percent of the child's support.


*Full-time work schedule.* Full-time employment with a basic 40-hour work week.


*Inactive National Guard (ING).* Part of the Army National Guard. These individuals are Reservists who are attached to a specific National Guard unit, but who do not participate in training activities. On mobilization, they shall mobilize with their assigned units. These members muster with their units once a year. Issuance of DD Form 1173-1 “United States Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card (Guard and Reserve Family Member)” to ING dependents is mandatory.


*Incapacitated person.* An individual who is impaired by physical disability, mental illness, mental deficiency, or other causes that prevent sufficient understanding or capacity to competently manage his or her own affairs.


*Individual Ready Reserve (IRR).* Trained individuals who have previously served in the active component or Selected Reserve (SelRes) and have time remaining on their military service obligation. Includes volunteers who do not have time remaining on the military service obligation, but are under contractual agreement to be a member of the IRR. These individuals are mobilization assets and may be called to active duty pursuant to the provisions of 10 U.S.C. chapter 1209. Issuance of DD Form 1173-1 to IRR dependents is mandatory.


*Institution of higher learning.* A college, university, or similar institution, including a technical or business school, offering post secondary-level academic instruction that leads to an associate or higher degree, if the school is empowered by the appropriate State education authority under State law to grant an associate or higher degree. When there is no State law to authorize the granting of a degree, the school may be recognized as an institution of higher learning if it is accredited for degree programs by a recognized accrediting agency. The term also includes a hospital offering educational programs at the post secondary level regardless of whether the hospital grants a post secondary degree. The term also includes an educational institution that is not located in a State that offers a course leading to a standard college degree or equivalent and is recognized as such by the Secretary of Education (or comparable official) of the country or other jurisdiction in which the institution is located.


*Intergovernmental Personnel Act personnel.* Employees covered by Public Law 91-648, “Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970.” The Intergovernmental Personnel Act mobility program provides temporary assignment of personnel between the Federal Government and State and local governments, colleges and universities, tribal governments, federally funded research and development centers, and other eligible organizations.


*Intermittent work schedule.* Employment without a regularly scheduled tour of duty.


*Invitational travel order (ITO).* The document authorizing travel by individuals either not employed by the government or employed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5703 intermittently in the government's service as consultants or experts and paid on a daily basis, when actually employed. ITOs include the names of accompanying dependents who may be eligible for DoD benefits in accordance with DoD policy and reciprocal international agreements.


*Letter of authorization (LOA).* A document generated by Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT) that states the intended length of assignment, planned use of government facilities and privileges, and name of the approving governmental official.


*Letter from a school registrar.* A letter certifying enrollment in a full-time in-residence, or online course of study, leading to an associate degree or higher and listing an anticipated graduation date. Students attending two institutions less than full-time may not combine courses from both institutions to meet full-time student status. Most colleges and universities contract with third parties, such as the National Student Clearinghouse, to verify student enrollment. These third parties must comply with 20 U.S.C. 1232g and 34 CFR part 99 and are considered official agents of the institution for that purpose. Such documentation is considered equivalent to and accepted in lieu of a letter from the registrar's office. For graduate students, a letter of acceptance of enrollment signed by an authorized officer of the college or university is required to serve as the school letter.


*Marriage certificate.* State-certified record of marriage.


*Medical sufficiency statement.* A statement from a physician from a military treatment facility or approved TRICARE provider used in conjunction with eligibility and dependency determinations. The statement includes a recent medical or psychiatric evaluation and diagnosis, a statement of illness (including the date, child's age, and onset of incapacity), the current treatment being rendered, the prognosis for recovery, and the ability to become self-supporting.


*Medicare.* Health insurance for people age 65 or older, under 65 with certain disabilities, and any age with end-stage renal disease. The different parts of Medicare help cover specific services if certain conditions are met.


(1) *Medicare part A.* Covers hospice care, home health care, skilled nursing facilities, and inpatient hospital stays.


(2) *Medicare part B.* Covers doctors' services, outpatient hospital care, and other medical services that Part A does not cover, such as physical and occupational therapy. Other examples include X-rays, medical equipment, or limited ambulance service.


*Member.* An individual who is affiliated with a Service, either active duty, Reserve, active duty retired, or Retired Reserve. Retired members are not former members. Also referred to as the sponsor.


*MWR.* A benefit that is extended to eligible individuals in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10, “Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101510p.pdf*).


*National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI).* Is the minimum investigation conducted by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for federal employment in nonsensitive positions and for individuals requiring eligibility for logical and physical access. The NACI consists of a records check (of designated agencies of the Federal Government that maintain record systems containing information relevant to making a personnel security determination) plus Written Inquiries to law enforcement agencies, former employers and supervisors, references and schools covering the last 5 years.


*Nonappropriated fund (NAF) employees.* NAF employees are Federal employees within the Department who are paid from NAFs. 5 U.S.C. 2105 explains the status of NAF employees as Federal employees.


*Non-regular service retirement.* A person who, as a member of the Ready Reserve, serves on active duty or performs active service, after the date of the enactment of sections 647 and 1106 of Public Law 110-181 and may receive retired pay in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12731. Under these provisions the eligibility age for applying for retired pay shall be reduced below 60 years of age by 3 months for each aggregate of 90 days on which the member performs in any fiscal year after such date, providing the applicant is at least 50 years of age. However, the member must be age 60 to qualify for CHC and CD.


*Notarization.* The official fraud-deterrent process that assures that the signatures on a document are authentic and valid. The signature of any such person acting as notary, together with the title of that person's offices, is *prima facie* evidence that the signature is genuine, that the person holds the designated title, and that the person is authorized to perform a notarial act. A person acting as notary must be impartial.


*Part-time work schedule.* Part-time employment of 16 to 32 hours a week under a schedule consisting of an equal or varied number of hours per day.


*Permanent employee.* Career or career-conditional appointment in the Competitive or SES or an appointment in the Excepted Service that carries no restrictions or conditions.


*Placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense).* An authorized placement agency in the United States or U.S. territories or possessions that must be licensed for adoption by the State, territory, or possession in which the adoption procedures will be completed. In all other locations, a request for recognition must be approved by the appropriate Assistant Secretary of the Military Department concerned or an appropriate official who has been delegated approval authority.


*Placement agreement.* An agreement between the State and the parent(s) placing the child in the legal custody of the parent(s). To establish the child as a pre-adoptive child, the placement agreement must include the intent to adopt.


*Pre-adoptive child.* With respect to determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, an unmarried person who is placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by any other source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption of the child by the member or former member, and:


(1) Has not attained the age of 21; or


(2) Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, in fact dependent on the member or former member for over one-half of the child's support; or


(3) Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that occurs while a dependent of a member or former member and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, in fact dependent on the member or former member for over one-half of the child's support.


*Privileges.* Benefits or advantages allowed based on position, authority, relationship, or status and which may be removed by proper authority. Privileges are not necessarily “rights” specifically granted by law.


*Ready Reserve.* Military members of the National Guard and Reserve, organized in units or as individuals, liable for recall to active duty to augment the active components in time of war or national emergency. The Ready Reserve consists of three Reserve Component subcategories: The SelRes, the IRR, and the ING.


*Remarried parent.* A dependent parent of a deceased military member who loses dependency-based eligibility for benefits on remarriage.


*Retired Reserve entitled to pay at age 60 (Gray Area Retirees).* Reserve members who have completed 20 qualifying years for retirement and are entitled to receive pay at age 60, but have not yet reached age 60. Reserve Retirees and their dependents receive commissary, MWR, and exchange benefits until the sponsor receives retired pay. Individuals may be recalled to active duty in accordance with 10 U.S.C.


*Seasonal employment.* Annually recurring periods of work of less than 12 months each year. Seasonal employees generally are permanent employees who are placed in non-duty or non-pay status and recalled to duty in accordance with pre-established conditions of employment. Seasonal employees may have full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedules.


*Selected Reserve (SelRes).* Those National Guard and Reserve units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated by their respective Services and approved by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as so essential to initial wartime missions that they have priority over all other Reserves. They must be prepared to mobilize within 24 hours. The issuance of DD Form 1173-1 to their dependents and participation in the Guard and Reserve DEERS Enrollment Program are mandatory.


*Service Project Officer (SPO).* The uniformed services, National Guard and Reserve Component, and agency-level office that coordinates with OUSD(P&R) on policy and functional matters related to DEERS, RAPIDS, and Trusted Associate Sponsorship System (TASS), and manages ID card operations within the respective organization.


*SES positions.* Appropriated fund positions in an agency classified above General Service-15 pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5108 or in level 4 or 5 of the Executive Schedule, or an equivalent position, which is not required to be filled by an appointment by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.


*Site security manager (SSM).* The SPO-appointed individual that manages the daily operations at a RAPIDS site to include managing users, cardstock, and consumables.


*Sponsor.* The person affiliated to the DoD, uniformed service, or other Federal agency who is delegated the responsibility for verifying and authorizing an applicant's need for an ID card. This term also refers to the prime beneficiary who derives eligibility based on individual status rather than dependence upon or relationship to another person. This beneficiary receives benefits based on the beneficiary's direct affiliation to the DoD or other unformed service.


*Spouse.* A person legally married to a current, former, or retired uniformed service member, eligible civilian employee, or other eligible individual in accordance with subpart C of this part, regardless of gender or State of residence.


*Standby Reserve.* Personnel who maintain their military affiliation without being in the Ready Reserve, who have been designated key civilian employees, or who have a temporary hardship or disability. These individuals are not required to perform training and are not part of units. These individuals are trained and could be mobilized, if necessary, to fill manpower needs in specific skills.


*Stepchild.* A natural or adopted child of a spouse of a sponsor and who qualifies as a child.


*Surviving dependent.* The dependent of a member who died while on active duty under orders that specified a period of more than 30 days, or a member who died while in a retired with-pay status.


*Temporary assignment.* An appointment for a specified period not to exceed 1 year. A temporary assignment can be extended up to a maximum of 1 additional year.


*Transitional Health Care (THC).* A healthcare system, formerly known as Transition Assistance Management Program (TAMP), instituted in section 502 of Public Law 101-510. It includes pre-separation and separation services, the Continued Health Care Benefit Program, a voluntary insurance program for sponsors and eligible dependents separating from active service; pre-separation counseling service for separating uniformed services members; and various other transitional initiatives. Uniformed service members separated as uncharacterized entry-level separations do not qualify for THC. Section 706 of Public Law 108-375 replaced the TAMP with the THC program. Section 651 of Public Law 110-181 included the 2-year commissary and exchange privilege for involuntarily separated uniformed service members. The DoD added MWR to the benefit set and extended the same benefits to the eligible dependents. To qualify for benefits under this program, individuals must be separated with service characterized as honorable or general under honorable conditions meeting the separation reasons identified in 10 U.S.C. 1145. The THC program is a permanent program and made the medical eligibility 180 days for all eligible uniformed service members and eligible dependents. Enlisted uniformed service members discharged for reasons of misconduct, discharge in lieu of court-martial, or other reasons for which service normally is characterized as under other than honorable conditions are not eligible for transition benefits. Officers discharged as a result of resignation in lieu of trial by court-martial, or misconduct or moral or professional dereliction if the discharge could be characterized as under other than honorable conditions are not eligible for transition benefits. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1145, the qualifying periods of active duty include:


(1) A member who is involuntarily separated from active duty.


(2) A member of a Reserve Component who is separated from active duty to which called or ordered in support of a contingency operation if the active duty is for a period of more than 30 days.


(3) A member who is separated from active duty for which the member is involuntarily retained in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12305 in support of a contingency operation.


(4) A member who is separated from active duty served pursuant to a voluntary agreement of the member to remain on active duty for a period of less than 1 year in support of a contingency operation.


(5) A member who receives a sole survivorship discharge (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1174); or


(6) A member who is separated from active duty who agrees to become a member of the SelRes. Section 734 of Public Law 110-417, which took effect on October 14, 2008 extended THC benefits to a uniformed service member who is separated from active duty who agrees to become a member of the SelRes of the Ready Reserve of a Reserve Component.


*Trusted Agent (TA).* An individual appointed by a TASM that serves as a sponsor for eligible populations within TASS, utilizes TASS to register data for the DD Form 1172-2 (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/eforms/dd1172-2.pdf*), re-verifies CAC holder affiliation, and revokes CACs.


*Trusted Agent Security Manager (TASM).* An individual appointed by a SPO to oversee the activity for a specific TASS site and associated TAs. These individuals also serve in the TA role.


*Trusted Associate Sponsorship System (TASS) (formerly known as Contractor Verification System (CVS)).* A Web application used to verify that CAC applicants have the appropriate government sponsorship for the purpose of issuing CACs. The TASS web interface automates the DD Form 1172-2 for tracking the request process and updating DEERS with applicant information required for CAC issuance. The system also provides a mechanism for periodic re-verification of contractor eligibility to ensure that information is current and contractor CACs do not remain active when not appropriate. This capability will be expanded to support registration and background investigation confirmation for additional CAC eligible populations.


*United States.* The 50 United States and the District of Columbia.


*Unmarried.* A widow or widower who remarried and whose remarriage ended by death or divorce, or a former spouse of a sponsor whose subsequent remarriage ended by death or divorce.


*Unremarried.* A widow or widower who has never remarried, or a former spouse whose only remarriage was to the same military sponsor. Periods of marriage in this case may be combined to document eligibility for former spouse benefits.


*U.S. territories and possessions.* Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*VA rating determination letter.* A letter from the appropriate VA authorities that establishes that the uniformed service member has been rated as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment by the VA.


*Verifying Official (VO).* An individual who is responsible for validating eligibility of bona fide beneficiaries to receive benefits and entitlements.


*Voluntary acknowledgment of paternity.* A document recognized by relevant and applicable State law as establishing legal paternity. Such documents must be certified as a “true copy” by the appropriate state office.


*Ward.* An unmarried person who is placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or a U.S. territory or possession) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; is dependent on the member or former member for more than 50 percent of the person's support; resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may by regulation prescribe; is not a dependent of a member or a former member under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2); and either:


(1) Has not attained the age of 21;


(2) Has not attained the age of 23 and is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary; or


(3) Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that occurred while the person was considered a dependent of the member or former member.


*Widow.* The female spouse of a deceased member of the uniformed Services.


*Widower.* The male spouse of a deceased member of the uniformed Services.



---

[N] [79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74875, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179, Feb. 14, 2024]




