# ยง 294.21   Definitions.

The following terms and definitions apply to this subpart.


*At-risk community:* As defined under section 101 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA).


*Community protection zone:* An area extending one-half mile from the boundary of an at-risk community or an area within one and a half miles of the boundary of an at-risk community, where any land:


(1) Has a sustained steep slope that creates the potential for wildfire behavior endangering the at-risk community;


(2) Has a geographic feature that aids in creating an effective fire break, such as a road or a ridge top; or


(3) Is in condition class 3 as defined by HFRA.


*Fire hazard and risk:* The fuel conditions on the landscape.


*Fire occurrence:* The probability of wildfire ignition based on historic fire occurrence records and other information.


*Forest Plan Special Area:* Certain lands identified on the Idaho Roadless Area Maps, ยง 294.22(c) and listed in ยง 294.29 shall be managed pursuant to applicable land management components. These lands include areas such as research natural areas, designated and eligible wild and scenic river corridors, developed recreation sites, or other specified management purposes, as described in the Roadless Area Conservation; National Forest System Lands in Idaho, Final Environmental Impact Statement, Appendix Q.


*Forest road:* As defined at 36 CFR 212.1, the term means a road wholly or partly within or adjacent to and serving the National Forest System that the Forest Service determines is necessary for the protection, administration, and use of the National Forest System and the use and development of its resources.


*Forest type:* A forest stand that is essentially similar throughout its extent in composition under generally similar environmental conditions, including temporary, permanent, climax, and cover types.


*Hazardous fuels:* Excessive live or dead wildland fuel accumulations that increase the potential for uncharacteristically intense wildland fire and decrease the capability to protect life, property, and natural resources.


*Idaho Roadless Areas:* Areas designated pursuant to this rule and identified in a set of maps maintained at the national headquarters office of the Forest Service.


*Municipal water supply system:* As defined under section 101 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, the term means the reservoirs, canals, ditches, flumes, laterals, pipes, pipelines, and other surface facilities and systems constructed or installed for the collection, impoundment, storage, transportation, or distribution of drinking water.


*Responsible official:* The Forest Service line officer with the authority and responsibility to make decisions about protection and management of Idaho Roadless Areas pursuant to this subpart.


*Road:* As defined at 36 CFR 212.1, the term means a motor vehicle route over 50 inches wide, unless identified and managed as a trail.


*Road construction and reconstruction:* As defined at 36 CFR 212.1, the terms mean supervising, inspecting, actual building, and incurrence of all costs incidental to the construction or reconstruction of a road.


*Road decommissioning:* As defined at 36 CFR 212.1, the term means activities that result in the stabilization and restoration of unneeded roads to a more natural state.


*Road maintenance:* The ongoing upkeep of a road necessary to retain or restore the road to the approved road management objective.


*Road realignment:* Activity that results in a new location of an existing road or portions of an existing road, and treatment of the old roadway.


*Roadless characteristics:* Resources or features that are often present in and characterize Idaho Roadless Areas, including:


(1) High quality or undisturbed soil, water, and air;


(2) Sources of public drinking water;


(3) Diversity of plant and animal communities;


(4) Habitat for threatened, endangered, proposed, candidate, and sensitive species, and for those species dependent on large, undisturbed areas of land;


(5) Primitive, semi-primitive non-motorized, and semi-primitive motorized classes of dispersed recreation;


(6) Reference landscapes;


(7) Natural appearing landscapes with high scenic quality;


(8) Traditional cultural properties and sacred sites; and


(9) Other locally identified unique characteristics.


*Substantially altered portion:* An area within an Idaho Roadless Area where past road construction, timber cutting, or other uses have materially diminished the area's roadless characteristics.


*Temporary road:* As defined at 36 CFR 212.1, the term means a road necessary for emergency operations or authorized by contract, permit, lease, or other written authorization that is not a forest road and that is not included in a forest transportation atlas. Temporary roads are available for administrative use until decommissioned.


*Uncharacteristic wildland fire effects:* An increase in wildland fire size, severity, and resistance to control; and the associated impact on people, property, and fire fighter safety compared to that which occurred in the native system. 




