# § 52.370   Identification of plan.

(a) Title of plan: “State of Connecticut Air Implementation Plan.”


(b) The plan was officially submitted on March 3, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) Miscellaneous non-regulatory addition to the plan and addition of amendment to Chapter 360 of General Statutes which provides authority for delegation of enforcement authority submitted on March 21, 1972, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(2) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan submitted on April 6, 1972, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(3) Attainment dates submitted on August 10, 1972, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(4) Regulation 19-508-100 requiring a review of indirect sources submitted on January 9, 1974, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(5) AQMA identification material submitted on April 15, 1974, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(6) Indirect Source Review Regulation 19-508-100 resubmitted on August 26, 1974, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(7) [Reserved]


(8) Revision to Chapter 8, Air Quality Surveillance, submitted on June 30, 1977, by the Governor.


(9) Revision to Indirect Source Review Regulation 19-508-100 submitted on June 13, 1977, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(10) A revision to Regulation 19-508-19(a)(2)(i) submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 16, 1979, granting a variance until April 1, 1981, to Northeast Utilities.


(11) State Implementation Plan revisions to meet the requirements of part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on June 22, 1979, and received on June 27, 1979; submitted on December 18, 1979 and received on December 28, 1979; submitted on January 28, 1980, and received on February 1, 1980; submitted and received on May 1, 1980; submitted and received on June 5, 1980; submitted on September 2, 1980, and received on September 8, 1980; and submitted and received on November 12, 1980. Included are plans to attain: The primary TSP standard in Greenwich and Waterbury and the carbon monoxide and ozone standards statewide. A program was also submitted for the review of construction and operation of new and modified major stationary sources of pollution in non-attainment areas. Certain miscellaneous provisions are also included.


(12) A revision to Regulation 19-508-19(a)(2)(i), submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on September 8, 1980, granting a variance until March 27, 1983, to the Federal Paperboard Company, Inc.


(13) A comprehensive air quality monitoring plan, intended to meet requirements of 40 CFR part 58, was submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Commission on June 9, 1980, and November 17, 1980.


(14) Non-regulatory additions to the plan which were submitted on December 19, 1980, and amended on March 11, 1981, by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection amending the sulfur control strategy to include an “Air Pollution Control/Energy Trade Option” except for submittal attachments #1 and #2, “Sulfur Dioxide” and “Transport of Sulfur Dioxide” and the section of attachment #3 “Control of Sulfur Oxides” entitled “Sample Analysis of a Btu Bubble Application”.


(15) Non-regulatory addition to the plan of the state *New Source Ambient Impact Analysis Guideline,* for use in State program actions, submitted on December 19, 1980, and amended on March 11, 1981, and July 15, 1981.


(16) Revisions to regulation 19-508-4 (source monitoring requirements) and regulation 19-508-5 (stack emissions testing) submitted on November 7, 1977, by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.


(17) A revision to Regulation 19-508-19(a)(2)(i), submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 23, 1981, granting a temporary variance to Uniroyal Chemical, Division of Uniroyal, Inc.


(18) Revisions to Regulation 19-508-19 (Control of Sulfur Compound Emissions), Regulation 19-508-24 (Connecticut Primary and Secondary Standards), and accompanying narrative submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 23, 1981, and November 4, 1981.


(19) Revisions submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 16, 1981. These provisions supersede portions of the revisions identified under paragraph (c)(18).


(20) Revisions to meet the requirements of part D and certain other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended, were submitted on December 15, 1980, May 29, 1981, and May 5, 1982. Included are changes to the State Ozone Control Plan involving adoption of Regulation 19-508-20(k) controlling the use of cutback asphalt, the approval of the RFP demonstration for ozone attainment, a refined inventory of miscellaneous stationary sources of Volatile Organic Compounds, changes to Regulation 19-508-3(1) dealing with review of new and modified stationary sources, and an amendment to the State's Smoke and Opacity monitoring requirements.


(21) [Reserved]


(22) Revisions to the narrative and State Regulation 19-508-18, subparts (d), f(1), f(2), and part of f(3), governing total suspended particulate emissions, submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 8, 1982.


(23) Regulation 19-508-20(cc), Alternative Emission Reductions as it applies to Regulation 19-508-20: (m), can coating; (n), coil coating; (o), fabric and vinyl coating; (p), metal furniture coating; (q), paper coating; (r), wire coating; (s), miscellaneous metal parts; (t), manufacture of synthesized pharmaceutical products and (v), graphic arts—rotogravure and flexography, was submitted on December 15, 1980, and January 11, 1982, by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.


(24) Revision for Sikorsky Aircraft Division of United Technologies received from the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 2 and July 16, 1982. This provision supersedes a portion of the revisions identified under (c)(18).


(25) Revisions to meet ozone attainment requirements of Part D (Group II CTG regulations), the adoption of a lead standard and the revision of the ozone standard, submitted on December 15, 1980, are approved as follows: Regulations 19-508-20 (s), (t), (v), (w), (aa), (bb), and (dd), Regulation 19-508-8 and Regulation 19-508-24(i)(l).


(26) Revision for Dow Chemical U.S.A. in Gale's Ferry submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 20, 1982, including state order 7002B signed on May 27, 1982. This provision supersedes a portion of the revisions identified under paragraph (c)(18).


(27) Revision for Lydall and Foulds Division of Lydall, Inc., submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 17, 1982, and January 5, 1983, allowing the facility to burn higher sulfur oil under the State Energy Trade Program.


(28) Revision for Simkins Industries, Inc., in New Haven submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 19, 1983, allowing the facility to burn higher sulfur oil under the Sulfur Energy Trade Program.


(29) Attainment plan revisions to meet the requirements of Part D for ozone were submitted by the Department of Environmental Protection on December 10, 1982, and May 19, 1983. These revisions control volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from solvent metal cleaners through emission limitations contained in Regulation 19-508-20(*1*) and supporting narrative committing the DEP to implement an educational program for automobile repair facilities. Approval of these revisions allowed EPA to rescind the moratorium on construction and modification of major sources of VOCs which had been in effect since October 1982.


(30) Revision for Loomis Institute in Windsor, submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on March 30 and July 13, 1983, allowing the facility to burn 2.0 percent sulfur oil under the Sulfur Energy Trade Program.


(31) Revisions demonstrating the attainment and maintenance of the lead standard were submitted on October 18, 1983.


(32) Attainment plan revisions to meet the requirements of part D for ozone and carbon monoxide were submitted by the Department of Environmental Protection on December 10, 1982, January 7, 1983, January 21, 1983, May 19, 1983, June 15, 1983, September 19, 1983, and December 15, 1983. The revisions control volatile organic compound (VOC) and carbon monoxide emissions through a mix of stationary and mobile source controls. EPA approval includes the following regulatory provisions:


(i) Regulation 22a-174-20(ee) limiting emissions from major nonCTG source categories, and


(ii) Regulations 22a-174-27 and 14-164c describing the requirements for Connecticut's motor vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program.


(33) Revision to Regulation 19-508-20(cc), “Alternative Emission Reductions” [made part of the SIP under paragraph (c)(23) of this section] to add Regulation 19-508-20(ee) to the list of VOC regulations that may be met by bubbling under Connecticut's generic rule after source-specific RACT determinations have been made part of the SIP. Revisions requiring sources subject to Regulation 19-508-20(ee) to comply with 19-508-20 (aa), (bb), and (dd). These revisions were submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on September 20, 1983.


(34) Revisions to the Ozone Attainment Plan were submitted by the Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 22, 1985.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Amendments to Regulation 22a-174-1, Definitions; Regulation 22a-174-20(a), Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds; Regulation 22a-174-20(b), Loading of Gasoline and Other Volatile Organic Compounds; and Regulation 22a-174-20(k), Restrictions on Cutback Asphalt, effective December 17, 1984.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) *Source Test Guidelines and Procedures.*

(B) *Workshop Manual for Gasoline Tank Truck Certification.*

(C) Appendix B of *Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection Systems* (EPA-450/2-78-051).


(35) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan were submitted December 15, 1980, and May 16, 1985, by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Amendments to Department of Environmental Protection Regulation 19-508-24(a)(4), “Acceptable Method” adopted by the State on October 8, 1980.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) A letter dated May 16, 1985, certifying that an “Acceptable Method” shall be interpreted to mean that any monitoring method used to collect ambient air pollution data used for attainment status evaluation or designation must be approved by EPA.


(36) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 18, 1986, by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.


(i) *Incorporated by reference.* (A) State Order No. 943 for Connecticut Charcoal Co., effective April 18, 1986, establishing and requiring reasonably available control technology for the control of volatile organic compounds from this facility.


(37) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 18, 1986, and February 3, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) State Order No. 944 for King Industries, Inc. dated April 18, 1986, which establishes and requires reasonably available control technology for the control of volatile organic compounds from this facility.


(B) A letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 3, 1987, which states that the effective date of State Order No. 944 is May 28, 1986.


(38) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan were submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) on April 14, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter dated April 14, 1987, from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection submitting revisions to the State Implementation Plan for EPA approval.


(B) Letter dated April 1, 1987, from the Secretary of State of Connecticut to EPA.


(C) Section 22a-174-20(x) of Connecticut's Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution titled, “Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical & Polymer Manufacturing Equipment,” effective April 1, 1987.


(D) Section 22a-174-20(y) of Connecticut's Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution titled, “Manufacture of Polystyrene Resins,” effective April 1, 1987.


(E) Amendments to subsection 22a-174-20(bb) of Connecticut's Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution titled, “Compliance Methods,” effective April 1, 1987.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut DEP dated July 3, 1986, committing the Connecticut DEP to use only EPA approved test methods when requiring the testing of sources emitting volatile organic compound emissions.


(B) Letter from the Connecticut DEP dated May 29, 1987, certifying that there are no polypropylene or high-density polyethylene manufacturers in the State of Connecticut.


(39) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on August 24, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 24, 1987, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8007 for Belding Corticelli Thread Company dated July 13, 1987.


(40) [Reserved]


(41) Revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan submitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection on February 3, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) A letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 3, 1987, which states that the effective date of State Order No. 943, approved previously, for Connecticut Charcoal Co. is May 28, 1986.


(42) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 27, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated October 27, 1987, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8013 and attached Compliance Timetable for Raymark Industries, Incorporated in Stratford, Connecticut effective on September 24, 1987.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(43) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 5, 1988.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 5, 1988, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8012 and attached Compliance Timetable, Appendix A (allowable limits on small, uncontrolled vents), and Appendix B (fugitive leak detection program) for American Cyanamid Company in Wallingford, Connecticut. State Order No. 8012 was effective on January 6, 1988.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(44) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on August 31, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 31, 1987, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8008 and attached Compliance Timetable and Appendix A (allowable limits by product classification) for Spongex International, Ltd. in Shelton, Connecticut. State Order No. 8008 was effective on August 21, 1987.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(45) [Reserved]


(46) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on July 26, 1988.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated July 26, 1988, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8023 and attached Compliance Timetable for New Departure Hyatt, Division of General Motors Corporation in Bristol, Connecticut. State Order No. 8023 was effective on July 8, 1988.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(47) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 5, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated November 5, 1987, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8001 and attached Compliance Timetable for Frismar, Incorporated in Clinton, Connecticut. State Order No. 8001 was effective on October 20, 1987.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the alternative reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(48) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 5, 1988.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated December 5, 1988, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8011 and attached Compliance Timetable and Appendix A (allowable limits by product classification) for Dow Chemical, U.S.A. in Gales Ferry, Connecticut. State Order No. 8011 was effective on October 27, 1988.


(C) State Order No. 8011, which was approved in paragraph (c)(48)(i)(B), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(C). 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonable available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(49) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 11, 1989.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 11, 1989, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8010 and attached Compliance Timetable for Stanadyne, Incorporated in Windsor, Connecticut. State Order No. 8018 was effective on January 3, 1989.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(50) Revisions to federally approved section 22a-174-20(a) of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, submitted on January 27, 1989, by the Department of Environmental Protection, limiting the volatility of gasoline from May 1 through September 15, beginning 1989 and continuing every year thereafter, including any waivers to such limitations that Connecticut may grant. In 1989, the control period will begin on June 30.


(51) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) on April 7, 1989.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut DEP dated April 7, 1989, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8014 and attached Compliance Timetable for Pratt & Whitney Division of United Technologies Corporation in East Hartford, Connecticut. State Order No. 8014 was effective on March 22, 1989.


(C) State Order No. 8027 and attached Compliance Timetable for Pratt & Whitney Division of United Technologies Corporation in North Haven, Connecticut. State Order No. 8027 was effective on March 31, 1989.


(D) State Order No. 8014, which was approved in paragraph (c)(51)(i)(B), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(D). 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut DEP providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on Pratt and Whitney's East Hartford facility.


(B) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut DEP providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on Pratt and Whitney's North Haven facility.


(52) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 7 and August 30, 1989.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 7, 1989, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8021 and attached Compliance Timetable, and Appendix A (allowable limits on small, uncontrolled vents and allowable outlet gas temperatures for surface condensers) for Pfizer, Incorporated in Groton, Connecticut. State Order No. 8021, Compliance Timetable and Appendix A were effective on December 2, 1988.


(C) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 30, 1989, and reorganized Appendix C (fugitive leak detection program) and Appendix D (operation and maintenance program for pollution abatement equipment) to State Order No. 8021. Appendices C and D were effective on December 2, 1988.


(D) State Order No. 8021, which was approved in paragraph (c)(52)(i)(B), and appendices C and D to State Order No. 8021, which were approved in paragraph (c)(52)(C), are removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(E). 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(53) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on September 8, 1989.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated September 8, 1989, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8009 and attached Compliance Timetable, Appendix A, Appendix B, and Appendix C for Uniroyal Chemical Company, Inc. in Naugatuck, Connecticut. State Order No. 8009 was effective on September 5, 1989.


(C) State Order No. 8009, which was approved in paragraph (c)(53)(i)(B), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(F). 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on the facility.


(54) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 22, 1989.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated December 22, 1989, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8029, attached Compliance Timetable, and Tables A through I for Hamilton Standard Division of United Technologies Corporation in Windsor Locks, Connecticut. State Order No. 8029 was effective on November 29, 1989.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut DEP providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on Hamilton Standard.


(55) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 10, 1990.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 10, 1990, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8032 and attached Compliance Timetable for the Heminway & Bartlett Manufacturing Company in Watertown, Connecticut. State Order No. 8032 was effective on November 29, 1989.


(C) State Order No. 8032, which was approved in paragraph (c)(55)(i)(B), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(G).


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Technical Support Document prepared by the Connecticut DEP providing a complete description of the reasonably available control technology determination imposed on The Heminway & Bartlett Manufacturing Company.


(56) Revisions of the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 19, 1989, July 28, 1989, and January 26, 1990 (with attached letter of November 28, 1989).


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letters from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 19, 1989, July 28, 1989, and January 26, 1990, (with attached letter of November 28, 1989) submitting revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Section 22a-174-1 of the Regulations of the Connecticut State Agencies Concerning Abatement of Air Pollution entitled “Definitions,” effective in the State of Connecticut on October 3, 1989.


(C) Subsection 22a-174-3(k) of the Regulations of the Connecticut State Agencies Concerning Abatement of Air Pollution entitled “Requirements for the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Program,” effective in the State of Connecticut on October 3, 1989.


(D) Section 22a-174-2, subsections 22a-174-3(a) through (j) and (l), subsection 22a-174-8(c), subsection 22a-174-20(ee), and subsection 22a-174-4(d) of the Regulations of the Connecticut State Agencies Concerning Abatement of Air Pollution entitled “Permits to Construct and Permits to Operate Stationary Sources or Modifications,” effective in the State of Connecticut on February 1, 1989.


(E) Connecticut's Ambient Impact Analysis Guideline dated July 1989 as revised by letter on January 26, 1990.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) State Implementation Plan narrative entitled “New Source Review.”


(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection regarding implementation of BACT.


(C) Nonregulatory portions of the State Submittal.


(57) [Reserved]


(58) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 9, 1989, and September 12, 1991.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letters from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated November 9, 1989, and September 12, 1991, submitting revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Section 22a-174-20 of the Regulations of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Concerning Abatement of Air Pollution, effective October 31, 1989, except for the last sentence of 22a-174-20(aa)(7).


(59) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on March 24 and April 23, 1992.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated April 14, 1992, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 1073B and attached compliance timetable for the Stone Connecticut Paperboard Corporation of Uncasville, CT. State Order No. 1073B was effective on February 14, 1992.


(C) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 24, 1992, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(D) State Order No. 7016A and attached compliance timetable for the Hartford Hospital of Hartford, CT. State Order No. 7016A was effective on February 5, 1992.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Memorandum dated August 17, 1989, approving the modeling analysis for the Stone Container Co.


(B) Modeling Study dated August 9, 1989, for the Stone Container Co.


(C) State Order No 1073A, dated June 12, 1990, and effective July 9, 1990.


(D) Memorandum dated January 3, 1990, approving the modeling analysis for the Hartford Hospital.


(E) Modeling study dated December 28, 1989, for the Hartford Hospital.


(60) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 16, 1996.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 16, 1996, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8010 dated October 25, 1989 for Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation, effective on January 29, 1990, as well as Addendum A and Addendum B to Order No. 8010, effective on February 7, 1996 and September 29, 1995, respectively. The State order and two addenda define and impose RACT on certain VOC emissions at Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation in Stratford, Connecticut


(C) State Order No. 8010, which was approved in paragraph (c)(60)(i)(B), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(H). 


(61) Revisions to the State Implemetation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 28, 1991.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 28, 1991, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 7017 and attached compliance timetable for the Connecticut Light and Power Company of Montville, Connecticut. State Order No. 7017 was effective on February 25, 1991.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Memorandum dated September 14, 1990, approving the modeling analysis for Connecticut Light and Power.


(B) Letter dated April 23, 1991, confirming that the revised configuration approved by State Order No. 7017 will not lead to violations.


(C) Modeling Study dated January 26, 1990, for Connecticut Light and Power.


(62) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 12, 1993. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated January 12, 1993, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Section 22a-174-30 of the Connecticut Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution, entitled “Dispensing of Gasoline/Stage II Vapor Recovery,” dated November 1992. 


(C) Letter from the Connecticut Secretary of State's office indicating that the regulation entitled “Dispensing of Gasoline/Stage II Vapor Recovery” became effective on November 24, 1992. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal. 


(B) Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection document entitled “Narrative of SIP Revision: Stage II Vapor Recovery,” dated January 1993. 


(63) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on March 11, 1993.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 11, 1993, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Connecticut State Order No 7019 dated March 11, 1993, and effective in the State of Connecticut on February 19, 1993.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Air Quality Modeling Analysis to Demonstrate SO_2_ CAAQS/NAAQS Compliance at the Hamilton Standard Division of United Technologies Corporation Windsor Locks CT; June 1991. 


(64) [Reserved]


(65) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan establishing a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program were submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 12 and August 9, 1993.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 12, 1993, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for the Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program dated January 1993 and effective on January 12, 1993.


(C) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 9, 1993, clarifying and updating the January 12, 1993, submittal.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated April 6, 1994, clarifying the January 12, 1993, submittal.


(B) Other non-regulatory portions of the State's submittal.


(66) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 12, 1993. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 12, 1993 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Section 22a-174-4(c)(1) of Connecticut Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution, under the section entitled “Recordkeeping and Reporting.” Section 22a-174-4(c)(1) was previously numbered as 19-508-4(c)(1) in Connecticut's SIP. 19-508-4(c)(1) in Connecticut's SIP. 19-508-4 became effective in the State of Connecticut on October 31, 1977. Connecticut developed an emission statement program using the existing regulatory authority given by section 22a-174-4(c)(1) under the section entitled “Reporting and Recordkeeping”. 


(ii) *Additional information.* (A) State implementation Plan narrative entitled “Revision to State Implementation Plan for Air Quality Emission Statements” which addresses emission statement requirements not discussed specifically in Section 22a-174-4(c)(1). 


(B) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal. 


(67) [Reserved]


(68) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on March 24, 1994, May 20, 1994, and March 4, 1994. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 24, 1994 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated May 20, 1994 submitting a supplemental revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(C) State Order No. 8073: State of Connecticut vs. City of New Haven (effective September 24, 1993) and attached plan titled “Remedial Action Plan for Prevention of Airborne Particulate Matter and Fugitive Discharge of Visible Emissions in the Alabama Street/East Shore Parkway Area of New Haven.” 


(D) State Order No. 8074: State of Connecticut vs. Waterfront Enterprises, Inc. (effective November 5, 1993) and attached plan titled “Proposed Operation Plan in Response to Unilateral Order (September 20, 1993).” 


(E) State Order No. 8075: State of Connecticut vs. Laydon Construction, (effective September 21, 1993) and attached plan titled “Plan for Control of Fugitive Emissions of PM10 (September 21, 1993).” 


(F) State Order No. 8076: State of Connecticut vs. United Illuminating Company (effective December 2, 1993) and attached plan titled “Remediation Plan for Fugitive Emissions: Alabama Street and Connecticut Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut (November 19, 1993).” 


(G) State Order No. 8076c: State of Connecticut vs. M. J. Metals, Inc. (effective June 18, 1993). 


(H) State Order No. 8078: State of Connecticut vs. New Haven Terminal, Inc. (effective November 15, 1993) and attached plan titled “Fugitive Dust Control Plan (Revised January 19, 1994).” 


(I) State Order No. 8079: State of Connecticut vs. Yankee Gas Services Company (effective September 24, 1993) and attached plan titled “Revised Compliance Plan for Consent Order No. 8079 (August 31, 1993).” 


(J) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 4, 1994 (received March 16, 1995) submitting two amendments to the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies concerning abatement of air pollution: amended Sections 22a-174-24(f) and -24(g) “Connecticut primary and secondary ambient air quality standards for particulate matter” and amended Sections 22a-174-6(a) and -6(b) “ ‘Air Pollution’ emergency episode procedures” (both effective July 7, 1993). 


(K) Amended Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies: amended Sections 22a-174-24(f) and -24(g) “Connecticut primary and secondary ambient air quality standards for particulate matter” and amended Sections 22a-174-6(a) and -6(b) “ ‘Air Pollution’ emergency episode procedures” (both effective July 7, 1993). 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) An attainment plan and demonstration which outlines Connecticut's control strategy and for attainment and maintenance of the PM10 NAAQS, implements and meets RACM and RACT requirements, and provides contingency measures for New Haven. 


(B) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.


(69) Connecticut submitted the Oxygenated Gasoline Program and revisions on January 11, 1993, January 12, 1993, January 14, 1993, and August 1, 1995. This submittal satisfied the requirements of section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act, as amended.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letters dated January 11, 1993 and January 12, 1993 which included the oxygenated gasoline program, Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) Section 22a-174-28, with an effective date of November 2, 1992.


(B) A letter dated January 14, 1993 requesting that the RCSA Section 22a-174-28, as submitted on January 11, 1993 and January 12, 1993, be adopted as part of Connecticut's SIP.


(C) A letter dated August 1, 1995, requesting that a revision to RCSA Section 22a-174-28(a), with an effective date of July 26, 1995, be approved and adopted as part of Connecticut's SIP.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Technical Support Document for the Redesignation of the Hartford Area as Attainment for Carbon Monoxide submitted on September 30, 1994.


(B) Nonregulatory portions of submittals.


(70) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 13, 1995.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 13, 1995 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Amended Regulation of Connecticut State Agencies: amended Subsection 22a-174-3(k) “Abatement of air pollution—New Source Review” (effective December 2, 1994).


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.


(71) Revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the control of carbon monoxide from mobile sources, dated January 12, 1993, January 14, 1993, April 7, 1994, and August 1, 1995 submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection (CT DEP).


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter dated August 1, 1995 which included the amendments and revisions to the Regulation of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA), Section 22a-174-28(a) regarding the definition for the Southwestern Control Area and that portion of the definition of “control period” that applies to the Southwestern Control Area with an effective date of July 26, 1995.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) January 12, 1993 and April 7, 1994, VMT forecasts beginning with the year 1993 and including all subsequent years up to the year of attainment (1995).


(B) January 12, 1993 and April 7, 1994, Carbon Monoxide Attainment Demonstration and Contingency Measures.


(72) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on: May 18, 1995; August 21, 1995; January 17, 1996; January 30, 1996; January 30, 1996; January 30, 1996; January 30, 1996; June 17, 1996; June 20, 1996; June 24, 1996; July 9, 1996; July 11, 1996; February 18, 1997; March 20, 1997; March 24, 1997; March 24, 1997; March 24, 1997; March 24, 1997; March 24, 1997; April 22, 1997; April 22, 1997; May 19, 1997; May 19, 1997; and May 20, 1997.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Twenty-four letters from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated: May 18, 1995; August 21, 1995; January 17, 1996; June 24, 1996; January 30, 1996; January 30, 1996; January 30, 1996; January 30, 1996; June 20, 1996; June 17, 1996; July 11, 1996; July 9, 1996; March 24, 1997; May 19, 1997; March 24, 1997; March 20, 1997; March 24, 1997; February 18, 1997; May 19, 1997; March 24, 1997; March 24, 1997; May 20, 1997; April 22, 1997; and April 22, 1997; submitting revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8092 issued to United Illuminating Company's Station #3 in Bridgeport, effective on May 18, 1995.


(C) Connecticut Trading Agreement and No. 8095 issued to American Ref-Fuel Company of Southeastern Connecticut in Preston, effective on June 2, 1995.


(D) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8093 issued to Pfizer, Inc., in Groton, effective on July 19, 1995. 


(E) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8096 issued to Food Ingredients Company in New Milford, effective on August 25, 1995. 


(F) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8106 issued to Connecticut Light and Power Company in Middletown, effective on October 10, 1995. 


(G) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8107 issued to Northeast Nuclear Energy Company in Waterford, effective on October 13, 1995. 


(H) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8105 issued to Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics in Groton, effective on October 31, 1995. 


(I) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8100 issued to Bridgeport RESCO Company in Bridgeport, effective on November 2, 1995. 


(J) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8102 issued to United Illuminating's auxiliary boiler in New Haven, effective on December 15, 1995. 


(K) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8103 issued to United Illuminating Company's Station #4 in New Haven, effective on February 14, 1996. 


(L) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8119 issued to the City of Norwich, Department of Public Utilities, effective on March 4, 1996. 


(M) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8118 issued to South Norwalk Electric Works, South Norwalk, effective on March 19, 1996. 


(N) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8101 issued to the State of Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, effective on July 16, 1996. 


(O) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8110 issued to Yale University, effective on July 29, 1996. 


(P) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8132 issued to Bridgeport Hospital, effective on September 10, 1996. 


(Q) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 1494 issued to Connecticut Light and Power, involving Branford, Cos Cob, Devon, Franklin Drive, Montville, Middletown, South Meadow, Torrington, Tunnel Road, and Norwalk Harbor Stations, effective on October 15, 1996. 


(R) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8130 issued to the State of Connecticut Department of Public Works, effective on October 18, 1996. 


(S) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8115 issued to the University of Connecticut in Storrs, effective on November 19, 1996. 


(T) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8113 issued to Simkins Industries, effective on November 19, 1996. 


(U) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8135 issued to Bridgeport Hydraulic Company, effective on December 24, 1996. 


(V) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8141 issued to the Town of Wallingford Department of Public Utilities, effective on December 27, 1996. 


(W) Regulations 22a-174-22 “Control of Nitrogen Oxides Emissions,” adopted on January 23, 1997, which establishes reasonably available control technology requirements for major stationary sources of nitrogen oxides. 


(X) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8123 issued to the Algonquin Gas Transmission Company, effective on April 18, 1997. 


(Y) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8116 issued to the Connecticut Resource Recovery Authority, effective on April 22, 1997. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter, dated June 18, 1996, from Carmine DiBattista, Chief of the Bureau of Air Management for the Connecticut DEP, to Susan Studlien, Deputy Director of the Office of Ecosystem Protection at U.S. EPA, Region I. 


(B) SIP narrative materials, dated May 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8092 for United Illuminating Company's Station #3 in New Haven. 


(C) SIP narrative materials, dated August 3, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8095 for American Ref-Fuel Company of Southeastern Connecticut in Preston. 


(D) SIP narrative materials, dated December 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8093 issued to Pfizer, Inc., in Groton. 


(E) SIP narrative materials, dated November 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8096 issued to Food Ingredients Company in New Milford. 


(F) SIP narrative materials, dated November 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8106 issued to Connecticut Light and Power Company in Middletown. 


(G) SIP narrative materials, dated November 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8107 issued to Northeast Nuclear Energy Company in Waterford. 


(H) SIP narrative materials, dated October 6, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8105 issued to Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics in Groton. 


(I) SIP narrative materials, dated September 29, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8100 issued to Bridgeport RESCO Company in Bridgeport. 


(J) SIP narrative materials, dated December 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8102 issued to United Illuminating's auxiliary boiler in New Haven. 


(K) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1996, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8103 issued to United Illuminating Company's Station #4 in Bridgeport. 


(L) SIP narrative materials, dated May 31, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8119 issued to the City of Norwich, Department of Public Utilities. 


(M) SIP narrative materials, dated May 31, 1995, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8118 issued to South Norwalk Electric Works, South Norwalk. 


(N) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8101 issued to the State of Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services. 


(O) SIP narrative materials, dated May 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8110 issued to Yale University. 


(P) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8132 issued to Bridgeport Hospital. 


(Q) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 1494 issued to Connecticut Light and Power, involving Branford, Cos Cob, Devon, Franklin Drive, Montville, Middletown, South Meadow, Torrington, Tunnel Road, and Norwalk Harbor Stations. 


(R) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8130 issued to the State of Connecticut Department of Public Works. 


(S) SIP narrative materials, dated February 1996, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8115 issued to the University of Connecticut in Storrs. 


(T) SIP narrative materials, dated May 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8113 issued to Simkins Industries. 


(U) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8135 issued to Bridgeport Hydraulic Company. 


(V) SIP narrative materials, dated March 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8141 issued to the Town of Wallingford Department of Public Utilities. 


(W) SIP narrative materials, dated April 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8123 issued to the Algonquin Gas Transmission Company. 


(X) SIP narrative materials, dated April 1997, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order no. 8116 issued to the Connecticut Resource Recovery Authority. 


(73) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 3, 1996.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated June 3, 1996, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) State Order No. 8036, dated May 6, 1996, for Risdon Corporation, effective on that date. The State order define and impose alternative RACT on certain VOC emissions at Risdon Corporation in Danbury, Connecticut.


(74) A revision to the Connecticut SIP regarding ozone monitoring. Connecticut will modify its SLAMS and its NAMS monitoring systems to include a PAMS network design and establish monitoring sites. Connecticut's SIP revision satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) PAMS requirements. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) PAMS SIP Commitment Narrative, which incorporates PAMS into the ambient air quality monitoring network of State or Local Air Monitoring Stations (SLAMS) and National Air Monitoring Stations (NAMS). 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 2, 1995 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(75) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 5, 1994.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 5, 1994 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Regulations sections 22a-174-20(s), “Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products,” sections 22a-174-20(v), “Graphic Arts Rotogravures and Flexography,” sections 22a-174-20(ee), “Reasonably Available Control Technology for Large Sources,” adopted and effective on November 18, 1993, which establish reasonably available control technology requirements for major stationary sources of volatile organic compounds.


(76) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 5, 1994.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated January 5, 1994 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Regulation section 22a-174-32, “Reasonably Available Control Technology for Volatile Organic Compounds,” adopted and effective on November 18, 1993, which establishes reasonably available control technology requirements for major stationary sources of volatile organic compounds.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from Connecticut dated June 27, 1994 clarifying language in section 22a-174-32(A).


(77) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 30, 1994, and May 8, 1998. This revision is for the purpose of satisfying the rate-of-progress requirement of section 182(b) and the contingency measure requirements of sections 172(c)(9) and 182(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, for the Greater Hartford serious ozone nonattainment area, and the Connecticut portion of the NY-NJ-CT severe ozone nonattainment area.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated December 30, 1994, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated May 8, 1998, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(78) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 24, 1998.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) State of Connecticut Regulation of Department of Environmental Protection Section 22a-174-27, Emission Standards for Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance as revised on March 26, 1998.


(B) State of Connecticut Regulation of Department of Motor Vehicles Concerning Periodic Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Section 14-164c as revised on April 7, 1998.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated June 24, 1998 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Letter from Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated November 13, 1998, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(79) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 7, 1996 and February 18, 1999.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Connecticut regulation section 22a-174-36, entitled “Low Emission Vehicles” as dated and effective by determination of the Secretary of State on December 23, 1994.


(B) Connecticut regulation section 22a-174-36(g), entitled “Alternative Means of Compliance via the National Low Emission Vehicle (LEV) Program” as dated and effective by determination of the Secretary of State on January 29, 1999.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 7, 1996 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan for the Low Emission Vehicle program.


(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated February 18, 1999 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan for the National Low Emission Vehicle program to be a compliance option under the State's Low Emission Vehicle Program.


(80) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on March 26, 1999.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated March 26, 1999, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Regulation section 22a-174-22a, “The Nitrogen Oxides (NO_X_) Budget Program” adopted on December 15, 1998, and effective on March 3, 1999. As of January 24, 2008, Section 22a-174-22a is superseded and shall have no prospective effect. Violations of Section 22a-174-22a that occur prior to January 24, 2008 shall continue to be subject to enforcement, including on or after January 24, 2008, in accordance with applicable law.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittals.


(81) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on May 12, 1994.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) “Clean Fuel Fleet Substitute Plan,” prepared by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, dated May 12, 1994.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated May 12, 1994 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(82) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on July 11, 1997, September 12, 1997, and December 8, 1997.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letters from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated July 11, 1997, September 12, 1997, and December 8, 1997, submitting revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Trading Agreement and Order Number 8137 issued to AlliedSignal, Inc., and U.S. Army Tank-Automotive and Armaments Command in Stratford, effective on November 19, 1996.


(C) Trading Agreement and Order Number 8138 issued to Connecticut Natural Gas Corporation in Rocky Hill, effective on November 19, 1996.


(D) Trading Agreement and Order Number 8114 issued to Cytec Industries, Inc., in Wallingford, effective on December 20, 1996.


(E) Modification to Trading Agreement and Order Number 8138 issued to Connecticut Natural Gas Corporation effective June 25, 1997.


(F) Modification to Trading Agreement and Order Number 8137 issued to AlliedSignal, Inc., and U.S. Army Tank-Automotive and Armaments Command in Stratford, effective July 8, 1997.


(G) Trading Agreement and Order Number 8094 issued to Ogden Martin Systems of Bristol, Inc., in Bristol, effective on July 23, 1997.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittals.


(B) Policy materials concerning the use of emission credits from New Jersey at Connecticut sources.


(83) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 7, 1999 to discontinue the oxygenated gasoline program in the Connecticut portion of the New York—N. New Jersey—Long Island Area.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) CTDEP; “Abatement of Air Pollution: Oxygenated Gasoline,”


State Regulation 22a-174-28.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated October 7, 1999 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(84) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 15, 1997, April 20, 1998, and September 2, 1999. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Section 22a-174-1(97) of the Regulation of the Connecticut State Agencies, definition of the term “Volatile organic compound” or “VOC,” effective in the State of Connecticut on December 22, 1997. 


(B) Section 22a-174-20(b) of the Regulation of the Connecticut State Agencies, entitled “Loading of gasoline and other volatile organic compounds,” effective in the State of Connecticut on April 1, 1998. 


(C) Section 22a-174-20(l) of the Regulation of the Connecticut State Agencies, entitled “Metal cleaning,” effective in the State of Connecticut on August 23, 1996. 


(D) Section 22a-174-20(s) of the Regulation of the Connecticut State Agencies, “Miscellaneous metal parts and products,” effective in the State of Connecticut on March 1, 1995. 


(E) Section 22a-174-32 of the Regulation of the Connecticut State Agencies, entitled “Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for volatile organic compounds,” effective in the State of Connecticut on August 27, 1999. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letters from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated April 15, 1997, April 20, 1998, and September 2, 1999 submitting revisions to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(85) [Reserved]


(86) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on September 30, 1999. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Section 22a-174-22b, State of Connecticut Regulation of Department of Environmental Protection Concerning The Post-2002 Nitrogen Oxides (NO_X_) Budget Program, which became effective on September 29, 1999. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated September 30, 1999 submitting Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Section 22a-174-22b and associated administrative materials as a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) The SIP narrative “Connecticut State Implementation Plan Revision to Implement the NO_X_ SIP Call,” dated September 30, 1999.


(C) Letter from Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated August 1, 2002. 


(D) The SIP narrative “Connecticut State Implementation Plan Revision to Revise the State's NO_X_ Emissions Budget,” dated July 22, 2002.


(iii) Section 22a-174-22b, State of Connecticut Regulation of Department of Environmental Protection Concerning The Post-2002 Nitrogen Oxides (NO_X_) Budget Program, is fully enforceable up to and including April 30, 2010. As of May 1, 2010, Section 22a-174-22b is superseded and shall have no prospective effect. Violations of Section 22a-174-22b that occur prior to May 1, 2010 shall be subject to enforcement, including on or after May 1, 2010, in accordance with applicable law. 


(87) [Reserved]


(88) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on May 19, 2000. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8177 issued to Wisvest Bridgeport Harbor's Unit No. 3 in Bridgeport on May 31, 2000. 


(B) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8187 issued to Wisvest Bridgeport Harbor's Unit No. 2 on January 12, 2000. 


(C) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8094, Modification No. 2, issued to Ogden Martin Systems of Bristol, Inc. on May 22, 2000. 


(D) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8095, Modification No. 2, issued to American Ref-Fuel Company of Southeastern Connecticut in Preston on May 22, 2000. 


(E) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8100, Modification No. 2, issued to Bridgeport Resco Company, Limited Partnership in Bridgeport on May 22, 2000. 


(F) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8116, Modification No. 2, issued to the Connecticut Resources Recovery Authority in Hartford on May 22, 2000. 


(G) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8178 issued to Wisvest's New Haven Harbor's auxiliary boiler in New Haven on May 22, 2000. 


(H) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8179 issued to Wisvest's Bridgeport Harbor's Unit No. 4 on May 22, 2000. 


(I) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8176, issued to Wisvest's New Haven Harbor Station's Unit No. 1 in New Haven on May 31, 2000. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated May 19, 2000, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) SIP narrative materials, dated December 1999, submitted with Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order Nos. 8176, 8177, 8178, 8179, and 8187.


(89) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 16, 1999. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Subsection (b) of Section 14-164c-11a of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Concerning Emissions Repairs Expenditure Requirement to Receive Waiver, adopted and effective June 24, 1999. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated November 19, 1999 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Narrative portion of the Revision to State Implementation Plan for Enhanced Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, dated October 7, 1999.


(90) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 15, 2001, to incorporate the nitrogen oxide limits and related regulatory provisions of regulation 22a-174-38, Municipal Waste Combustors. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) The nitrogen oxide emission limits and related regulatory provisions of State of Connecticut Regulation of Department of Environmental Protection Section 22a-174-38, Municipal Waste Combustors effective October 26, 2000, included in sections 22a-174-38 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m). 


(B) Section 22a-174-38, subsections (a), (c), (d), (i), (j), (k), and (l) were revised as published in the Connecticut Law Journal, volume 78, no. 17, on October 25, 2016. Subsection (d) is removed from the SIP without replacement. See paragraph (116)(i)(A).


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated October 15, 2001, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(91) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on June 14, 2002. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Connecticut's amendments to Section 22a-174-1, *Definitions* except for the following sections: (4), (18), (20), (29), (44), (45), (60), (111), (112) and, (117). These regulations are effective in the state of Connecticut on March 15, 2002. 


(B) Connecticut's new Section 22a-174-2a, *Procedural Requirements for New Source Review and Title V Permitting* except for the following sections: (a)(1) through (6); (b)(1) through (4); introduction to (b)(5); (b)(5)(D), (F) and, the last sentence of (G); (b)(9); (c)(2); clause after first comma “ * * * or order pursuant to section 22a-174-33(d) of regulations of Connecticut State Agency * * * ” in the introduction to (c)(6); (c)(6)(B) and (C); clause after first comma “ * * * or order pursuant to section 22a-174-33(d) of Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies * * * ” in (c)(9); reference to “Title V” in title of (d); (d)(4)(A) through (D); (d)(7)(A) through (D); (d)(8)(A) and (B); reference to “Title V” in title of (e); (e)(2)(A) and (B); (e)(3)(D); (e)(5)(A) through (F); reference to “Title V permit” in (e)(6); reference to “22a-174-33” in first clause of introduction to (f)(2); (f)(2)(F); (f)(5); (f)(6); (g)(1) and (2); (h)(1) through (3) and; (i)(1) through (3). These regulations are effective in the state of Connecticut on March 15, 2002. 


(C) Connecticut's new Section 22a-174-3a, *Permit to Construct and Operate Stationary Sources* except for the following sections: (a)(1)(C); (c)(1)(H); (d)(3)(J) and (M); references to “Dioxin,” “PCDDs” and, “PCDFs” in Table 3a(i)-1 of (i)(1) and; (m)(1) through (8). These regulations are effective in the state of Connecticut on March 15, 2002. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated June 14, 2002 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan. 


(92)-(94) [Reserved]


(95) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 1, 2004 and April 4, 2006.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Section 22a-174-30 of the Connecticut Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution, entitled “Dispensing of Gasoline/Stage I and Stage II Vapor Recovery,” effective in the State of Connecticut on May 10, 2004, with the exception of subsection (c)(5), which Connecticut did not submit as part of the SIP revision.


(B) Section 22a-174-3b of the Connecticut Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution, entitled “Exemptions from Permitting for Construction and Operation of External Combustion Units, Automotive Refinishing Operations, Emergency Engines, Nonmettalic Mineral Processing Equipment and Surface Coating Operations,” effective in the State of Connecticut on April 4, 2006, except for the following subsections which Connecticut did not submit as part of the SIP revision: (a)(1), (5), (6), (7), (10), (11), (12), (15), (17); (b)(1) for an external combustion unit, nonmetallic mineral processing equipment, an emergency engine or a surface coating operation; (b)(2) for an external combustion unit, nonmetallic mineral processing equipment, an emergency engine or a surface coating operation; (c) External combustion unit; (e) Emergency engine; (f) Nonmetallic mineral processing equipment; (g) Surface coating operation; and (h) Fuel sulfur content.


(C) [Reserved]


(D) Regulation 22a-174-30, which was approved in paragraph (c)(95)(i)(A), is removed and replaced by Regulation 22a-174-30a, see paragraph (c)(117)(i)(B).


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Pressure Vacuum Vent Cap Test Procedures


(B) Table 1 showing the emission reductions resulting from the measures Connecticut adopted to meet the shortfall identified in the Connecticut one-hour ozone attainment demonstration.


(C) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.


(96) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 30, 2002, and October 17, 2002.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Consent Order No. 8229A issued by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to Hitchcock Chair Company, Ltd., on April 15, 2002.


(B) Consent Order No. 8190 issued by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to Kimberly Clark Corporation on April 23, 2002.


(C) Consent Order No. 8200 issued by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to Watson Laboratories, Inc., on October 3, 2002.


(D) Consent Order No. 8237 issued by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to Ross & Roberts, Inc., on October 4, 2002.


(E) State Order No. 8200, which was approved in paragraph (c)(96)(i)(C), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(115)(i)(I). 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.


(97) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on April 26, 2007 and September 12, 2007.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-22c entitled “The Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) Nitrogen Oxides (NO_X_) Ozone Season Trading Program,” effective in the State of Connecticut on September 4, 2007.


(B) Section 22a-174-22c, subsection (g)(3) is removed from the SIP without replacement effective December 22, 2016. See paragraph (116)(i)(B).


(98) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 19, 2007.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A)(*1*) Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Regulations entitled “Emission standards and on-board diagnostic II test requirements for periodic motor vehicle inspection and maintenance” at section 22a-174-27 (effective in the State of Connecticut on August 25, 2004).


(*2*) In revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 22, 2010 section 22a-174-27 (e) was repealed by the State of Connecticut effective August 10, 2009. Section 22a-174-27 (e), which was approved in paragraph (c)(98)(i)(A)(*1*), is removed from the SIP without replacement; see paragraph (c)(105)(i)(B) of this section.


(B) Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles Regulation entitled “Periodic Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance” at section 14-164c-1a to Section 14-164c-18a (effective in the State of Connecticut on May 28, 2004).


(99) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 9, 2011.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) The additions of subsections (21) and (49) to Section 22a-174-1, effective January 28, 2011. 


(B) The revisions to Sections 22a-174-3a(a)(1)(H) through (J), Sections 22a-174-3a(d)(3)(H), Sections 22a-174-3a(j)(1)(E) through (I), Sections 22a-174-3a(k)(1) through (k)(2), and Sections 22a-174-3a(k)(4), effective January 28, 2011.


(100) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on February 1, 2008 and January 8, 2009.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) State of Connecticut Regulation, Section 22a-174-20(k), Restrictions on VOC Emissions from Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt (excluding the text that appears in brackets), effective in the state of Connecticut on January 1, 2009.


(B) A letter from Barbara Sladeck, RLS Assistant Coordinator, Office of the Secretary of the State, State of Connecticut, to Hon. Gina McCarthy, Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, dated July 26, 2007, stating that the effective date of the Amendment of Section 22a-174-20(l), Metal Cleaning, and Adoption of Section 22a-174-41, pertaining to Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Products, is July 26, 2007.


(C) State of Connecticut Regulation, Section 22a-174-20(l), Metal Cleaning, effective in the state of Connecticut on July 26, 2007, revisions to the following provisions (including the text that appears in underline and excluding the text that appears in brackets): Sections 22a-174-20(l)(1)(A) through (C) and(J) through (L), Sections 22-a-174-20(l)(3), (A) through (D), (F) through (H), and (J) through (L), Sections 22a-174-20(l)(5) introductory text, (B), (E), and (M), and Section 22a-174-20(l)(6); and addition of Sections 22a-174-20(l)(7) through (9).


(D) State of Connecticut Regulation, Section 22a-174-41, Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Products, effective in the state of Connecticut on July 26, 2007.


(101) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on July 20, 2007, consisting of orders establishing reasonably available control technology for volatile organic compound emissions for Sumitomo Bakelite North America, Cyro Industries, and Curtis Packaging.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) State of Connecticut vs. Sumitomo Bakelite North America, Inc., Consent Order No. 8245, issued as a final order on October 11, 2006.


(B) State of Connecticut and Cyro Industries, Consent Order No. 8268, issued as a final order on February 28, 2007.


(C) State of Connecticut vs. Curtis Packaging Corporation, Consent Order No. 8270, issued as a final order on May 1, 2007.


(102) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 18, 2008, April 29, 2010, and November 21, 2012.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) Section 22a-174-20, as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on May 18, 2010, effective April 6, 2010:


(*1*) The amendment of subdivision (f)(9);


(*2*) The withdrawal of subsection (g);


(*3*) The amendment of subdivisions (l)(1) and (l)(2);


(*4*) The amendment of subsections (p) Metal furniture coatings, (q) Paper, film, and foil coating;


(*5*) The amendment of subparagraph (s)(2)(B);


(*6*) The amendment of subsection (ee) Reasonably available control technology for large sources;


(*7*) The addition of subsection (ff) Flexible package printing, with the exception of the phrases “or other method approved by the commissioner” in subparagraph (ff)(1)(K) and “or alternative method as approved by the commissioner” in clause (ff)(5)(B)(vi);


(*8*) The addition of subsection (gg) Offset lithographic printing and letterpress printing, with the exception of the phrases “or other method approved by the commissioner” in subparagraph (gg)(1)(O) and “or alternative method as approved by the commissioner” in clause (gg)(7)(B)(vi);


(*9*) The addition of subsection (hh) Large appliance coatings, with the exception of the phrases “or other method approved by the commissioner” in subparagraph (hh)(1)(CC) and “or alternative method as approved by the commissioner” in clause (hh)(7)(B)(vi);


(*10*) The addition of (ii) Industrial solvent cleaning, with the exception of the phrases “or other method approved by the commissioner” in subparagraph (ii)(1)(I) and “or alternative method as approved by the commissioner” in clause (ii)(6)(B)(vi); and


(*11*) The addition of (jj) Spray application equipment cleaning, with the exception of the phrase “or other method approved by the commissioner” in subparagraph (jj)(1)(H), the exception of subparagraph (jj)(3)(D), and the exception of the phrase “or alternative method as approved by the commissioner” in clause (JJ)(6)(B)(vii).


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) Section 22a-174-20, as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on December 4, 2012, effective October 31, 2012:


(*1*) The amendment of subsection(s) Miscellaneous metal parts and products;


(*2*) The amendment of subdivisions (aa)(1), (cc)(2), and (cc)(3);


(*3*) The amendment of subparagraph (ii)(3)(A); and


(*4*) The addition of subdivision (kk) Pleasure craft coatings.


(C) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) Section 22a-174-40 entitled “Consumer Products,” with the exception of subdivisions (4) through (7) in subsection (c) and the exception of subparagraphs (C) and (D) in subdivision (f)(2), effective July 26, 2007.


(D) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-44, entitled “Adhesives and Sealants,” effective October 3, 2008.


(103) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 18, 2009, and Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on March 12, 2012.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Department of Environmental Protection Section 22a-174, effective December 28, 2000; as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on January 23, 2001.


(*1*) Section 22a-174-19a, “Control of sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants and other large stationary sources of air pollution,” with the following exceptions which Connecticut did not submit as part of the SIP revision because they are not applicable to the Connecticut Alternative to Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) program:


(*i*) Section 22a-174-19a(a)(5);


(*ii*) Section 22a-174-19a(a)(8);


(*iii*) Section 22a-174-19a(a)(11);


(*iv*) In Section 22a-174-19a(a)(13); the sentence “Early reduction credits shall qualify as SO_2_ DERCs.”;


(*v*) Section 22a-174-19a(d);


(*vi*) Section 22a-174-19a(e)(4);


(*vii*) Section 22a-174-19a(f) through 19a(h); and


(*viii*) In Section 22a-174-19a(i)(2), the reference to “or (e)(4).”


(*2*) Section 22a-174-19a(c) which was approved in paragraph (c)(103)(i)(A)(1), is removed without replacement; see paragraph (c)(111)(i)(B).


(*3*) Section 22a-174-22, “Control of nitrogen oxide emissions,” subsection (e)(3).


(B) Connecticut General Statute, Title 16a “Planning and Energy Policy,” Chapter 296 “Operation of Fuel Supply Business,” Section 16a-21a, “Sulfur content of home heating oil and off-road diesel fuel. Suspension of requirements for emergency,” effective June 2, 2008, as published in the State of Connecticut General Statutes, Revision of 1958, Revised to 2009.


(C) Connecticut General Statute Section16a-21a, which was approved in paragraph (c)(103)(i)(B) of this section, is removed and replaced by Connecticut General Statute 16a-21a, see paragraph (c)(118)(i)(A) of this section.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut Regional Haze SIP Revision, Final, November 2009.”


(B) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection letter “Clarification of Connecticut's 2008 PM_2.5_ Attainment Demonstration,” dated March 12, 2012, signed by Anne Gobin.


(C) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection letter “Regional Haze State Implementation Plan,” dated February 24, 2012, signed by Anne Gobin.


(D) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection letter “Withdrawal of Request for Parallel Processing,” dated November 23, 2012, signed by Anne R. Gobin.


(104) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 1, 2004.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection dated December 1, 2004 submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Section 22a-174, Abatement of Air Pollution Regulations, amended April 1, 2004:


(*1*) Section 22a-174-4 “Source monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting.”


(*2*) Section 22a-174-7 “Air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment operation.”


(*3*) Section 22a-174-18 “Control of particulate matter and visible emissions,” with the exception of the phrase “or malfunction” in Section 22a-174-18(j)(1) and all of Section 22a-174-18(j)(2), which CT DEEP withdrew from the SIP submittal.


(*4*) Previously approved on July 16, 2014 in paragraph (c)(104)(B)(*1*) of this section and now deleted with replacement in paragraph (c)(131)(i)(A) of this section, as regulation 22a-174-4a.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from CT DEEP dated January 14, 2013, entitled “Information to Support EPA's Approval of Connecticut's Requirements for Opacity.”


(B) Letter from CT DEEP dated July 8, 2013, withdrawing from CT DEEP's December 1, 2004 SIP revision the phrase “and malfunction” from Subsection (j)(1) of RCSA Section 22a-174-18.


(C) Letter from CT DEEP dated March 27, 2014, withdrawing from CT DEEP's December 1, 2004 SIP revision Section 22a-174-18(j)(2).


(105) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on January 22, 2010.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-36b entitled “Low Emission Vehicles II Program,”


(*1*) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-36b entitled “Low Emission Vehicles II Program,” effective December 22, 2005, revisions to the following provisions (including the text that appears in underline): Sections 22a-174-36b (a), (b), (d), (f) through (j), (l), (m), (n), and (o).


(*2*) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-36b entitled “Low Emission Vehicles II Program,” effective August 10, 2009, revisions to the following provisions: Sections 22a-174-36b (c), (e), and (k), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on September 8, 2009.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-27 entitled “Emission standards and on-board diagnostic II test requirements for periodic motor vehicle inspection and maintenance,” effective August 10, 2009, revisions to Section 22a-174-27 (b), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on September 8, 2009.


(106) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on April 22, 2014.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-1(10) and (88), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on July 1, 2014, effective April 15, 2014.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-3a(k)(5), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on July 1, 2014, effective April 15, 2014.


(C) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-24, “Connecticut primary and secondary ambient air quality standards,” with the exceptions of subsections (a), (c), (g), (j), and (m), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on July 1, 2014, effective April 15, 2014.


(D) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) Section 22a-174-28 (a)(5), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on July 1, 2014, effective April 15, 2014.


(107) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on September 27, 2012.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-2a(b)(5) introductory text and Section 22a-174-2a(b)(5)(E), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 23, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-2a(b)(6), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 23, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(108) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on October 9, 2012.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-1(62), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 16, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-3a(i), Table 3a(i)-1, published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 16, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(C) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies revisions to Section 22a-174-3a(k), Table 3a(k)-1, published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 16, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(D) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies revisions to Section 22a-174-3a(k), Table 3a(k)-2, published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 16, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(E) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies revisions to Section 22a-174-3a (*l*)(1), published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 16, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(F) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies revisions to Section 22a-174-3a(*l*)(4)(B) introductory text and Section 22a-174-3a(*l*)(4)(B)(iv), published in the Connecticut Law Journal on October 16, 2012, effective September 10, 2012.


(109) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on October 31, 2012.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8187, Modification 1 issued to PSEG Power Connecticut LLC on July 16, 2012.


(B) Connecticut Trading Agreement and Order No. 8242, Modification 1 issued to PSEG Power Connecticut LLC on July 16, 2012.


(110) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on April 8, 2014.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, revisions to Section 22a-174-20(a), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on May 6, 2014, effective March 7, 2014:


(*1*) 22a-174-20(a);


(*2*) 22a-174-20(b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(17);


(*3*) 22a-174-20(c); and


(*4*) 22a-174-20(x)(12).


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Subsection (b)(1) of Section 22a-174-20 is removed without replacement, as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on May 6, 2014, effective March 7, 2014.


(111) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on April 22, 2014.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Amendments to Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on June 24, 2014, effective April 15, 2014.


(*1*) Revised Section 22a-174-19.


(*2*) Revised Section 22a-174-19a(e).


(*3*) Revised Section 22a-174-19a(i).


(*4*) Section 22a-174-19b with the exception of subsection (e), which was not submitted by the State.


(*5*) Revised Section 22a-174-5(b)(1).


(B) RCSA Section 22a-174-19a(c) which was approved in paragraph (c)(103)(i)(A)(1), is removed without replacement.


(ii) *Additional materials.* [Reserved]


(112) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on December 28, 2007; September 4, 2008; September 18, 2009; October 13, 2011; December 28, 2012; January 2, 2013; and May 30, 2013.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and (2) for the 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard Program Infrastructure,” Final, December 28, 2007.


(B) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan for Clean Air Act Section 110(a) Infrastructure Elements: 1997 National Ambient Air Quality Standard for Fine Particulate Matter,” Final, September 4, 2008.


(C) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and (2) for the 2006 Fine Particulate Matter National Ambient Air Quality Standard,” Final, September 18, 2009.


(D) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Request to Withdraw a Portion of Connecticut's PM_2.5_ Infrastructure Adequacy Determination,” January 7, 2011.


(E) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Addendum to the CAA § 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) Portion of Connecticut's Infrastructure Submittal for the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS,” August 19, 2011.


(F) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Adequacy Determination of the Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and


(2) for the 2008 Lead National Ambient Air Quality Standard,” Final, October 13, 2011.


(G) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Update to Connecticut PM_2.5_ Infrastructure Submittals,” June 15, 2012.


(H) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to the Infrastructure Requirements of Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and 110(s)(2) for the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards, Final, December 28, 2012.


(I) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut State Implementation Plan with Regard to the Infrastructure Requirements of Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(1) and 110(a)(2) for the 2010 Nitrogen Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standards, Final, January 2, 2013.


(J) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut State Implementation Plan for Clean Air Act Section 110(a) Infrastructure Elements: 2010 Sulfur Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standard, Final, May 30, 2013.


(K) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection letter, “Supplement to Infrastructure State Implementation Plan (SIP) Revisions,” August 5, 2015.


(113) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on November 19, 2012 and December 14, 2015.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Section 19-508-17, “Control of Open Burning,” which was approved in the March 1972 plan (see paragraph (b)) is removed and replaced with the following:


(*1*) Connecticut General Statute, Title 22A “Environmental Protection,” Chapter 446c “Air Pollution Control,” Section 22a-174 “(Formerly Sec. 19-508). Powers of the commissioner. Regulations. Fees. Exemptions. General permits. Appeal of commissioner's action re permit applications,” paragraph (f), effective March 30, 2000, as published in the General Statutes of Connecticut, revision of 1958, revised to January 1, 2015, volume 8.


(*2*) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies (RCSA) section 22a-174-1 entitled “Definitions,” revisions to Section 22a-174-1(19), as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on July 1, 2014.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* [Reserved]


(114) [Reserved]


(115) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on July 1, 2004, January 13, 2006, November 15, 2011, and July 15, 2016.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) State of Connecticut vs. Mallace Industries Corporation, Consent Order No. 8258, issued as a final order on September 13, 2005.


(B) State of Connecticut vs. Hamilton Sundstrand, a United Technologies Company, Order No. 8029A, issued as a final order on September 3, 2009.


(C) State Order No. 8011, and attached Compliance Timetable and Appendix A (allowable limits by product classification) for Dow Chemical, U.S.A. in Gales Ferry, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8011, effective on October 27, 1988, and approved in paragraph (c)(48(i)(B) is removed without replacement.


(D) State Order No. 8014, and attached Compliance Timetable for Pratt & Whitney Division of United Technologies Corporation in East Hartford, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8014, effective on March 22, 1989, and approved in paragraph (c)(51)(i)(B) is removed without replacement.


(E) State Order No. 8021, and attached Compliance Timetable, and Appendix A (allowable limits on small, uncontrolled vents and allowable outlet gas temperatures for surface condensers) for Pfizer, Incorporated in Groton, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8021, effective on December 2, 1988, and approved in paragraph (c)(52)(i)B) is removed without replacement.


(F) State Order No. 8009, and attached Compliance Timetable, Appendix A, Appendix B, and Appendix C for Uniroyal Chemical Company, Inc. in Naugatuck, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8009, effective on September 5, 1989, and approved in paragraph (c)(53)(i)(B), is removed without replacement.


(G) State Order No. 8032, and attached Compliance Timetable for the Heminway & Bartlett Manufacturing Company in Watertown, Connecticut, issued as State Order No. 8032, effective on November 29, 1989, and approved in paragraph (c)(55)(i)(B), is removed without replacement.


(H) State Order No. 8010, for Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation, effective on January 29, 1990, as well as Addendum A and Addendum B to Order No. 8010, effective on February 7, 1996 and September 29, 1995, respectively, issued as State Order No. 8010, and two addenda, define and impose RACT on certain VOC emissions at Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation in Stratford, Connecticut, and approved in paragraph (c)(60)(i)(B) is removed without replacement.


(I) State Order No. 8200, issued by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to Watson Laboratories, Inc., effective October 3, 2002, and approved in paragraph (c)(96)(i)(C) is removed without replacement.


(ii) *Additional materials.* [Reserved] 


(116) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on September 16, 2016, and January 24, 2017.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Administrative Regulation of the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, Municipal Waste Combustors, revisions to section 22a-174-38 as published in the Connecticut Law Journal, volume 78, no. 17, on October 25, 2016.


(*1*) Subsection (c), subdivision (8);


(*2*) Subsection (c), subdivisions (16), and (17);


(*3*) Subsection (d);


(*4*) Subsection (i), subdivisions (4)(E) and (J);


(*5*) Subsection (i), subdivision (5);


(*6*) Subsection (j), subdivision (4);


(*7*) Subsection (k), subdivision (9) with the exceptions of the phrase “particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxin/furan emissions, hydrogen chloride, fugitive ash and” and the sentence “The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be recorded for the initial performance test for dioxin/furan emissions for each particulate matter control device.”; and subdivision (10), with the exceptions of the phrase “for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxin/furan emissions, hydrogen chloride, fugitive ash and” and the sentence “The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature (for each particulate matter control device) shall be recorded for the initial performance test for dioxin/furan emissions.”


(*8*) Subsection (l), subdivision (3)(A)(i) with the exception of the phrase “particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxin/furan emissions, hydrogen chloride, fugitive ash and”; (3)(A)(ii), with the exceptions of the term “sulfur dioxide” and the phrase “carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, particulate matter control device inlet temperature and”; (3)(A)(iv); (3)(A)(v), with the exceptions of the term “sulfur dioxide” the phrase “carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, particulate matter control device temperature and” and the phrase “carbon mass feed rate and”; (3)(A)(vi), with the exceptions of the term “sulfur dioxide” the phrase “carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, particulate matter control device temperature and” and the phrase “carbon mass feed rate and”; (B), with the exception of the phrase “and (A)(iii)”; and (C).


(*9*) Subsection (l), subdivision (6), with the exceptions of the phrase “particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxin/furan emissions, hydrogen chloride” and the term “or fugitive ash”.


(*10*) Subsection (a).


(B) Regulation of the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Concerning NO_X_ Emissions from Fuel-Burning Emission Units, effective December 22, 2016.


(*1*) Section 22a-174-22e, Control of nitrogen oxides emissions from fuel-burning equipment at major stationary sources of nitrogen oxides, with the exception of, within paragraph (l)(7), the phrase “or under procedures in RCSA section 22a-174-5(d).”;


(*2*) Section 22a-174-22f, High daily NO_X_ emitting units at non-major sources of NO_X_;


(*3*) Section 22a-174-18,, revised subsection (j)(6);


(*4*), Section 22a-174-8(b)(2);


(*5*) Section 22a-174-22c, subsection (g)(3);


(*6*) Section 22a-174-38, revised subsections (b)(1) through (6).


(117) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on September 14, 2015.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) “Control of Organic Compound Emissions,” Regulation 22a-174-20, the sections listed below, effective July 8, 2015, as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on November 24, 2015.


(*1*) Section 20(a)(7);


(*2*) Section (b)(10);


(*3*) Sections (b)(12) through (b)(16);


(*4*) Section (20)(ee)


(B) “Control of Organic Compound Emissions,” Regulation 22a-174-30a “Stage I Vapor Recovery,” effective July 8, 2015, as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on November 24, 2015.


(C) “Control of Organic Compound Emissions,” Regulation 22a-174-32(b)(3), effective July 8, 2015, as published in the Connecticut Law Journal on November 24, 2015.


(D) House Bill No. 6534, Public Act No. 13-120, “An Act Concerning Gasoline Vapor Recovery Systems,” approved June 18, 2013.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, dated September 14, 2015, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(118) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on August 19, 2011, December 14, 2015, and October 18, 2017.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) “Definitions,” Regulation 22a-174-1(71), the definition of “Minor source baseline date,” amended October 5, 2017.


(B) “Permit to Construct and Operate Stationary Sources,” Regulation 22a-174-3a(k)(1)(C), amended October 5, 2017.


(C) Connecticut General Statute, Title 16a, “Planning and Energy Policy,” Chapter 296, “Operation of Fuel Supply Business,” Section 16a-21a, “Sulfur content of home heating oil and off-road diesel fuel. Suspension of requirements for emergency. Enforcement,” effective July 1, 2015, as published in the State of Connecticut General Statutes, Revision of 1958, Revised to January 1, 2017.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Addendum to the CAA § 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) Portion of Connecticut's Infrastructure Submittal for the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS,” August 19, 2011.


(B) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut State Implementation Plan for Clean Air Act Section 110(a) Infrastructure Elements: 2012 PM_2.5_ NAAQS,” December 14, 2015.


(C) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, State Implementation Plan Revision Concerning the Consumer Products, Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Coatings and Prevention of Significant Deterioration Permit Programs,” October 18, 2017.


(119) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on October 18, 2017.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-40, entitled “Consumer Products,” effective Oct 5, 2017.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-41, entitled “Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Products—Phase 1,” effective Oct 5, 2017.


(C) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-41a, entitled “Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Products—Phase 2,” effective Oct 5, 2017.


(120) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on February 28, 2018.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Section 22a-174-3a, “Permit to Construct and Operate Stationary Sources,” amended February 8, 2018:


(*1*) 22a-174-3a(a)(1), “Applicability and Exemptions,” except (a)(1)(C) and (G);


(*2*) 22a-174-3a(j)(1), “Best Available Control Technology (BACT);” and


(*3*) 22a-174-3a(k)(1) and (2), “Permit Requirements for Attainment Areas: Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality (PSD) Program.”


(121) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on June 30, 2015.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document “Regional Haze 5-Year Progress Report,” Final July 8, 2015.


(B) [Reserved]


(122) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on June 15, 2015.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Demonstration that Connecticut Complies with the Good Neighbor Requirements of Clean Air Act Section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard” Final, June 11, 2015.


(B) [Reserved]


(123) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on September 7, 2018.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut State Implementation Plan—Clean Air Act Section 110(a) Infrastructure Elements for the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards,” Final, September 7, 2018.


(B) [Reserved]


(124) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on October 19, 2018.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-18, entitled “Control of Particulate Matter and Visible Emissions,” as amended August 3, 2018, as follows:


(*1*) 22a-174-18(c) Control of airborne particulate matter and fugitive particulate matter;


(*2*) 22a-174-18(f) Process industries—general; and


(*3*) 22a-174-18(j)(1).


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) [Reserved]


(125) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 20, 2019.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-22e, entitled “Control of nitrogen oxide emissions from fuel-burning equipment at major stationary sources of nitrogen oxides,” as amended October 8, 2019, as follows:


(*1*) 22a-174-22e (a), Definitions; (12) “emergency” and (13) “emergency engine.”


(*2*) 22a-174-22e (g), Compliance options; (4) and (6).


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) [Reserved]


(126) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on December 6, 2018.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document, “Connecticut Good Neighbor SIP for the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard.” Final, December 6, 2018.


(B) [Reserved]


(127) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on October 26, 2020, supplemented on January 12, 2022.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies section 22a-174-33a, Limit on Premises-wide Actual Emissions Below 50% of Title V Thresholds, effective September 24, 2002.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies section 22a-174-33b, Limit on Premises-wide Actual Emissions Below 80% of Title V Thresholds, effective September 24, 2020, excluding section (d)(6).


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection dated October 26, 2020, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection dated January 12, 2022, withdrawing Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies section 22a-174-33b(d)(6) from its SIP submittal.


(128) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 20, 2021 and amended on May 3, 2022.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) State of Connecticut, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, Consent Order # 8377, Modification 1, issued to Middletown Power LLC, Montville Power LLC, Connecticut Jet Power LLC, and Devon Power LLC, May 3, 2022.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) [Reserved]


(129) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 15, 2020, and supplemented on February 14, 2023.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-2a “Procedural Requirements for New Source Review and Title V Permitting,” 22a-174-2a(c)(3), 22a-174-2a(d)(9), 22a-174-2a(e)(3)(C), 22a-174-2a(e)(3)(E), 22a-174-2a(e)(7), 22a-174-2a(f)(2), and 22a-174-2a(f)(2)(G), amended by the State of Connecticut on November 18, 2020.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-3a, “Permit to Construct and Operate Stationary Sources,” at 22a-174-3a(a)(2)(A)(ii) through (v), 22a-174-3a(a)(5), 22a-174-3a(d)(3)(B) and (C), 22a-174-3a(i) Table 3a(i)-1, 22a-174-3a(i)(2), 22a-174-3a(j)(1)(B), 22a-174-3a(j)(8)(A), 22a-174-3a(k)(3) and (4), 22a-174-3a(k)(6)(A), 22a-174-3a(k)(7) Table 3a(k)-1, and 22a-174-3a(l)(1), amended by the State of Connecticut on November 18, 2020.


(C) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-20, “Control of Organic Compound Emissions,” at 22a-174-20(gg)(8), amended by the State of Connecticut on November 18, 2020.


(ii) *Additional materials.*

(A) Letter from CT DEEP submitted to EPA on December 15, 2020, entitled “State Implementation Plan Revision Concerning the New Source Review Permit Program Update.”


(B) Letter from CT DEEP submitted to EPA on February 14, 2023, entitled “Re: Supplement to the State Implementation Plan Revision Concerning the NSR Program Update.”


(130) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on November 30, 2023.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.*

(A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-1, “Definitions,” (106), definition of “Severe non-attainment area for ozone.”


(B) Reserved.


(ii) *Additional materials.*

(A) Letter from CT DEEP submitted to EPA on November 30, 2023, entitled “State Implementation Plan Revision Concerning the Definition of Severe Non-Attainment Area for Ozone.”


(B) Reserved.


(131) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on November 17, 2022, and supplemented on December 19, 2022 and February 27, 2023.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-4a, entitled “Source monitoring, record keeping, and reporting,” effective October 28, 2022.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-20, entitled “Control of organic compound emissions,” specifically 22a-174-20(a)(12), amended by the State of Connecticut on October 28, 2022.


(C) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies Section 22a-174-22e, entitled “Control of nitrogen oxides emissions from fuel-burning equipment at major stationary sources of nitrogen oxides,” specifically 22a-174-22e(m)(1) and (m)(4), amended by the State of Connecticut on October 28, 2022.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection dated November 17, 2022, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection dated December 19, 2022, supplementing a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(C) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection dated February 27, 2023, clarifying a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(132) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on December 14, 2015.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Regulation 22a-174-36b, “Low emission vehicles II program,” amended August 1, 2013.


(B) Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, Regulation 22a-174-36c, “Low Emission Vehicle III Program,” effective August 1, 2013.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Letter from the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, dated December 14, 2015, submitting a revision to the Connecticut State Implementation Plan.


(B) [Reserved]


(133) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection on January 5, 2022.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document “Connecticut Regional Haze State Implementation Plan Revision—Second Implementation Period (2018-2028)”.


(B) [Reserved]


(134) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection on May 9, 2023, and supplemented on February 21, 2024.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection document “Limited Maintenance Plan for Connecticut's Fine Particulate Matter (PM_2.5_) Maintenance Area” dated March 2023.


(B) The CT DEEP document “Motor Vehicle Assessment for Connecticut's Fine Particulate Matter (PM_2.5_) Maintenance Area Limited Maintenance Plan” received via email dated July 4, 2023.



---

[N] [37 FR 10855, May 31, 1972]


