# ยง 13.40   Taking of fish.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Fishing.* Fishing is permitted in all park areas in accordance with applicable State and Federal law, and such laws are hereby adopted and made a part of these regulations to the extent they are not inconsistent with ยง 2.3 of this chapter.


(c) *Commercial fishing.* The exercise of valid commercial fishing rights or privileges obtained prior to December 2, 1980, pursuant to existing law in Cape Krusenstern National Monument, the Malaspina Glacier Forelands area of the Wrangell-St. Elias National Preserve, and the Dry Bay area of Glacier Bay National Preserve, including the use of these park areas for existing campsites, cabins and other structures, motorized vehicles, and aircraft landings on existing airstrips, may continue provided that all such use is directly incident to the exercise of those rights or privileges.


(1) *Restrictions.* The Superintendent may restrict or revoke the exercise of a valid commercial fishing right or privilege based upon specific findings, following public notice and an opportunity for response, that continuation of such use of a park area constitutes a direct threat to or significant impairment of the values and purposes for which the park area was established.


(2) *Expansion of uses.* (i) A person holding a valid commercial fishing right or privilege may expand his or her level of use of a park area beyond the level of such use in 1979 only pursuant to the terms of a permit issued by the Superintendent.


(ii) The Superintendent may deny a permit or otherwise restrict the expanded use of a park area directly incident to the exercise of such rights or privileges, if the Superintendent determines, after conducting a public hearing in the affected locality, that the expanded use constitutes either:


(A) A significant expansion of the use of a park area beyond the level of such use during 1979 (taking into consideration the relative levels of use in the general vicinity, as well as the applicant's levels of use); or


(B) A direct threat to, or significant impairment of, the values and purposes for which the park area was established.


(d) *Use of native species as bait.* Use of species native to Alaska as bait for fishing is allowed in accordance with non-conflicting State law and regulations.


(e) *Closures and restrictions.* The Superintendent may prohibit or restrict the non-subsistence taking of fish in accordance with the provisions of ยง 13.50.



---

[N] [71 FR 69333, Nov. 30, 2006, as amended at 80 FR 64343, Oct. 23, 2015]




