# § 1724.74   List of electric program standard contract forms.

(a) *General.* The following is a list of RUS electric program standard contract forms for architectural and engineering services. Paragraph (c) of this section contains the list of required contract forms, *i.e.,* those forms of contracts that borrowers are required to use by the terms of their RUS loan agreements as implemented by the provisions of this part. Paragraph (d) of this section contains the list of guidance contract forms, *i.e.,* those forms of contracts provided as guidance to borrowers in the planning, design, and construction of their systems. All of these forms are available from RUS. See § 1724.72(b) for availability of these forms.


(b) *Issuance date.* Where required by this part to use a standard form of contract in connection with RUS financing, the borrower shall use that form identified by issuance date in the List of Required Contract Forms in paragraph (c) of this section, as most recently published as of the date the borrower executes the contract.


(c) *List of required contract forms.* (1) RUS Form 211, Rev. 4-04, Engineering Service Contract for the Design and Construction of a Generating Plant. This form is used for engineering services for generating plant construction.


(2) RUS Form 220, Rev. 6-98, Architectural Services Contract. This form is used for architectural services for building construction.


(3) RUS Form 236, Rev. 6-98, Engineering Service Contract—Electric System Design and Construction. This form is used for engineering services for distribution, transmission, substation, and communications and control facilities.


(d) *List of guidance contract forms.* (1) RUS Form 179, Rev. 9-66, Architects and Engineers Qualifications. This form is used to document architects and engineers qualifications.


(2) RUS Form 215, Rev. 5-67, Engineering Service Contract—System Planning. This form is used for engineering services for system planning.


(3) RUS Form 234, Rev. 3-57, Final Statement of Engineering Fee. This form is used for the closeout of engineering services contracts.


(4) RUS Form 241, Rev. 3-56, Amendment of Engineering Service Contract. This form is used for amending engineering service contracts.


(5) RUS Form 244, Rev. 12-55, Engineering Service Contract—Special Services. This form is used for miscellaneous engineering services.


(6) RUS Form 258, Rev. 4-58, Amendment of Engineering Service Contract—Additional Project. This form is used for amending engineering service contracts to add an additional project.


(7) RUS Form 284, Rev. 4-72, Final Statement of Cost for Architectural Service. This form is used for the closeout of architectural services contracts. 


(8) RUS Form 297, Rev. 12-55, Engineering Service Contract—Retainer for Consultation Service. This form is used for engineering services for consultation service on a retainer basis.


(9) RUS Form 459, Rev. 9-58, Engineering Service Contract—Power Study. This form is used for engineering services for power studies.



---

[N] [63 FR 58285, Oct. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 63196, Oct. 23, 2000; 69 FR 52595, Aug. 27, 2004]




