# § 0.211   Chairperson.

The responsibility for the general administration of internal affairs of the Commission is delegated to the Chairperson of the Commission. The Chairperson will keep the Commission advised concerning his actions taken under this delegation of authority. This authority includes:


(a) Actions of routine character as to which the Chairperson may take final action.


(b) Actions of non-routine character which do not involve policy determinations. The Chairperson may take final action on these matters but shall specifically advise the Commission on these actions.


(c) Actions of an important character or those which involve policy determinations. In these matters the Chairperson will develop proposals for presentation to the Commission.






(d) To act within the purview of the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2672, upon tort claims directed against the Commission where the amount of damages does not exceed $5,000.


(e) Authority to act as “Head of the Agency” or “Agency Head” for administrative determinations required by the Federal Acquisition Regulation and Federal Management Circulars.


(f) Authority to act as “Head of the Agency” or “Agency Head” for all administrative determinations pursuant to the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Laws 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (1996) (DCIA).



---

[N] [28 FR 12402, Nov. 22, 1963, as amended at 41 FR 49095, Nov. 8, 1976; 51 FR 23550, June 30, 1986; 69 FR 27847, May 17, 2004; 76 FR 70907, Nov. 16, 2011; 88 FR 21429, Apr. 10, 2023]




