# § 600.208-12   Calculation of FTP-based and HFET-based fuel economy, CO

(a) Fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for a base level are calculated from vehicle configuration fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions as determined in § 600.206-12(a), (b), or (c) as applicable, for low-altitude tests.


(1) If the Administrator determines that automobiles intended for sale in the State of California and in section 177 states are likely to exhibit significant differences in fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions from those intended for sale in other states, she will calculate fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for each base level for vehicles intended for sale in California and in section 177 states and for each base level for vehicles intended for sale in the rest of the states.


(2) In order to highlight the fuel efficiency, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions of certain designs otherwise included within a model type, a manufacturer may wish to subdivide a model type into one or more additional model types. This is accomplished by separating subconfigurations from an existing base level and placing them into a new base level. The new base level is identical to the existing base level except that it shall be considered, for the purposes of this paragraph, as containing a new basic engine. The manufacturer will be permitted to designate such new basic engines and base level(s) if:


(i) Each additional model type resulting from division of another model type has a unique car line name and that name appears on the label and on the vehicle bearing that label;


(ii) The subconfigurations included in the new base levels are not included in any other base level which differs only by basic engine (*i.e.,* they are not included in the calculation of the original base level fuel economy values); and


(iii) All subconfigurations within the new base level are represented by test data in accordance with § 600.010(c)(1)(iii).




(3) The manufacturer shall supply total model year sales projections for each car line/vehicle subconfiguration combination.


(i) Sales projections must be supplied separately for each car line-vehicle subconfiguration intended for sale in California and each car line/vehicle subconfiguration intended for sale in the rest of the states if required by the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(ii) Manufacturers shall update sales projections at the time any model type value is calculated for a label value.


(iii) The provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section may be satisfied by providing an amended application for certification, as described in § 86.1844 of this chapter.


(4) Vehicle configuration fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions, as determined in § 600.206-12(a), (b) or (c), as applicable, are grouped according to base level.


(i) If only one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions from that vehicle configuration will constitute the fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for that base level. Note that the appropriate vehicle subconfiguration CO_2_ values for fuel economy labels based on testing with E10 test fuel are adjusted as referenced in § 600.206-12(a)(2)(iii); those values are used to calculate the base level CO_2_ values in this paragraph (a)(4)(i).


(ii) If more than one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the vehicle configuration fuel economy values are harmonically averaged in proportion to the respective sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) of each vehicle configuration and the resultant fuel economy value rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon; and the vehicle configuration CO_2_ emissions and carbon-related exhaust emissions are arithmetically averaged in proportion to the respective sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) of each vehicle configuration and the resultant carbon-related exhaust emission value rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per mile. Note that the appropriate vehicle subconfiguration CO_2_ values for fuel economy labels based on testing with E10 test fuel are adjusted as referenced in § 600.206-12(a)(2)(iii); those values are used to calculate the base level CO_2_ values in this paragraph (a)(4)(ii).




(5) The procedure specified in paragraph (a)(1) through (4) of this section will be repeated for each base level, thus establishing city, highway, and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for each base level.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) For alcohol dual fuel automobiles and natural gas dual fuel automobiles, the procedures of paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section shall be used to calculate two separate sets of city, highway, and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for each base level.


(i) Calculate the city, highway, and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions from the tests performed using gasoline or diesel test fuel.


(ii) Calculate the city, highway, and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions from the tests performed using alcohol or natural gas test fuel.


(b) For each model type, as determined by the Administrator, a city, highway, and combined fuel economy value, CO_2_ emission value, and a carbon-related exhaust emission value will be calculated by using the projected sales and values for fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for each base level within the model type. Separate model type calculations will be done based on the vehicle configuration fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions as determined in § 600.206-12(a), (b) or (c), as applicable.


(1) If the Administrator determines that automobiles intended for sale in the State of California and in section 177 states are likely to exhibit significant differences in fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions from those intended for sale in other states, he or she will calculate values for fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for each model type for vehicles intended for sale in California and in section 177 states and for each model type for vehicles intended for sale in the rest of the states.


(2) The sales fraction for each base level is calculated by dividing the projected sales of the base level within the model type by the projected sales of the model type and rounding the quotient to the nearest 0.0001.


(3)(i) The FTP-based city fuel economy values of the model type (calculated to the nearest 0.0001 mpg) are determined by dividing one by a sum of terms, each of which corresponds to a base level and which is a fraction determined by dividing:


(A) The sales fraction of a base level; by


(B) The FTP-based city fuel economy value for the respective base level.


(ii) The FTP-based city carbon-related exhaust emission value of the model type (calculated to the nearest gram per mile) are determined by a sum of terms, each of which corresponds to a base level and which is a product determined by multiplying:


(A) The sales fraction of a base level; by


(B) The FTP-based city carbon-related exhaust emission value for the respective base level.


(iii) The FTP-based city CO_2_ emissions of the model type (calculated to the nearest gram per mile) are determined by a sum of terms, each of which corresponds to a base level and which is a product determined by multiplying:


(A) The sales fraction of a base level; by


(B) The FTP-based city CO_2_ emissions for the respective base level.


(C) Note that the appropriate base level CO_2_ values for fuel economy labels based on testing with E10 test fuel are adjusted as referenced in paragraph (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section; those values are used to calculate the model type FTP-based city CO_2_ values in this paragraph (b)(3)(iii).




(4) The procedure specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is repeated in an analogous manner to determine the highway and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emissions for the model type.


(5) For alcohol dual fuel automobiles and natural gas dual fuel automobiles, the procedures of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section shall be used to calculate two separate sets of city, highway, and combined fuel economy values and two separate sets of city, highway, and combined CO_2_ and carbon-related exhaust emission values for each model type.


(i) Calculate the city, highway, and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emission values from the tests performed using gasoline or diesel test fuel.


(ii) Calculate the city, highway, and combined fuel economy, CO_2_ emissions, and carbon-related exhaust emission values from the tests performed using alcohol or natural gas test fuel.



---

[N] [76 FR 39552, July 6, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 74002, Oct. 25, 2016; 89 FR 28208, Apr. 18, 2024]




