# § 63.2354   What performance tests, design evaluations, and performance evaluations must I conduct?

(a)(1) For each performance test that you conduct, you must use the procedures specified in subpart SS of this part and the provisions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) For each design evaluation you conduct, you must use the procedures specified in subpart SS of this part. You must also comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2346(l).


(3) For each performance evaluation of a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) you conduct, you must follow the requirements in § 63.8(e) and paragraph (d) of this section. For CEMS installed after the compliance date specified in § 63.2342(e), conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS within 180 days of installation of the monitoring system.


(b)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, for nonflare control devices, you must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1), and either § 63.988(b), § 63.990(b), or § 63.995(b), using the procedures specified in § 63.997(e).


(2) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test on a nonflare control device as specified in §§ 63.7(e)(3) and 63.997(e)(1)(v). Each test run must last at least 1 hour, except as provided in § 63.997(e)(1)(v)(A) and (B).


(3)(i) In addition to Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7), to determine compliance with the TOC emission limit, you may use Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6) or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine compliance with the total organic HAP emission limit. You may not use Method 18 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part if the control device is a combustion device, and you must not use Method 320 of appendix A to this part if the gas stream contains entrained water droplets. All compounds quantified by Method 320 of appendix A to this part must be validated according to Section 13.0 of Method 320 of appendix A to this part. As an alternative to Method 18, for determining compliance with the total organic HAP emission limit, you may use ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), under the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(A) If you use Method 18 (40 CFR 60, appendix A-6) or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to measure compliance with the percentage efficiency limit, you must first determine which organic HAP are present in the inlet gas stream (*i.e.,* uncontrolled emissions) using knowledge of the organic liquids or the screening procedure described in Method 18. In conducting the performance test, you must analyze samples collected simultaneously at the inlet and outlet of the control device. Quantify the emissions for the same organic HAP identified as present in the inlet gas stream for both the inlet and outlet gas streams of the control device.


(B) If you use Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6) or Method 320 of appendix A to this part, to measure compliance with the emission concentration limit, you must first determine which organic HAP are present in the inlet gas stream using knowledge of the organic liquids or the screening procedure described in Method 18. In conducting the performance test, analyze samples collected as specified in Method 18 at the outlet of the control device. Quantify the control device outlet emission concentration for the same organic HAP identified as present in the inlet or uncontrolled gas stream.


(ii) You may use ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), to determine compliance with the total organic HAP emission limit if the target concentration for each HAP is between 150 parts per billion by volume and 100 ppmv and either of the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section exists. For target compounds not listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 and not amenable to detection by mass spectrometry, you may not use ASTM D6420-18.


(A) The target compounds are those listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14); or


(B) For target compounds not listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), but potentially detected by mass spectrometry, you must demonstrate recovery of the compound and the additional system continuing calibration check after each run, as detailed in ASTM D6420-18, Section 10.5.3, must be followed, met, documented, and submitted with the data report, even if there is no moisture condenser used or the compound is not considered water-soluble.


(iii) You may use ASTM D6348-12e1 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) instead of Method 320 of appendix A to this part under the conditions specified in footnote 4 of Table 5 to this subpart.


(4) If a principal component of the uncontrolled or inlet gas stream to the control device is formaldehyde, you must use Method 316 of appendix A to this part, Method 320 of appendix A to this part, or Method 323 of appendix A to this part for measuring the formaldehyde, except you must not use Method 320 or Method 323 of appendix A to this part if the gas stream contains entrained water droplets. If you use Method 320 of appendix A to this part, formaldehyde must be validated according to Section 13.0 of Method 320 of appendix A to this part. You must measure formaldehyde either at the inlet and outlet of the control device to determine control efficiency or at the outlet of a combustion device for determining compliance with the emission concentration limit. You may use ASTM D6348-12e1 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) instead of Method 320 of appendix A to this part under the conditions specified in footnote 4 of Table 5 to this subpart.


(5) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, you may not conduct performance tests during periods of SSM, as specified in § 63.7(e)(1).


(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraphs (b)(1) and (5) of this section no longer apply. Instead, you must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) In lieu of the requirements specified in § 63.7(e)(1), you must conduct performance tests under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(ii) Pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, you must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in either § 63.988(b), § 63.990(b), or § 63.995(b), using the procedures specified in § 63.997(e). You must also comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2346(l).


(c) To determine the HAP content of the organic liquid, you may use Method 311 of appendix A to this part, ASTM D6886-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or other method approved by the Administrator. If you use ASTM D6886-18 to determine the HAP content, you must use either Method B or Method B in conjunction with Method C, as described in section 4.3 of ASTM D6886-18. In addition, you may use other means, such as voluntary consensus standards, safety data sheets (SDS), or certified product data sheets, to determine the HAP content of the organic liquid. If the method you select to determine the HAP content provides HAP content ranges, you must use the upper end of each HAP content range in determining the total HAP content of the organic liquid. The EPA may require you to test the HAP content of an organic liquid using Method 311 of appendix A to this part or other method approved by the Administrator. For liquids that contain any amount of formaldehyde or carbon tetrachloride, you may not use Method 311of appendix A to this part. If the results of the Method 311 of appendix A to this part (or any other approved method) are different from the HAP content determined by another means, the Method 311 of appendix A to this part (or approved method) results will govern. For liquids that contain any amount of formaldehyde or carbon tetrachloride, if the results of ASTM D6886-18 using method B or C in section 4.3 (or any other approved method) are different from the HAP content determined by another means, ASTM D6886-18 using method B or C in section 4 (or approved method) results will govern.


(d) Each VOC CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the requirements of one of the following performance specifications in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter: Performance Specification 8, Performance Specification 8A, Performance Specification 9, or Performance Specification 15. You must also comply with the requirements of procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter, for CEMS using Performance Specification 8 or 8A.


(1) For CEMS using Performance Specification 9 or 15 (40 CFR part 60, appendix B), determine the target analyte(s) for calibration using either process knowledge or the screening procedures of Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6).


(2) For CEMS using Performance Specification 8A (40 CFR part 60, appendix B), conduct the relative accuracy test audits required under Procedure 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix F) in accordance with Sections 8 and 11 of Performance Specification 8 (40 CFR part 60, appendix B). The relative accuracy must meet the criteria of Section 13.2 of Performance Speciation 8 (40 CFR part 60, appendix B).


(3) For CEMS using Performance Specification 8 or 8A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, calibrate the instrument on methane and report the results as carbon (C1). Use Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests.


(4) If you are required to monitor oxygen in order to conduct concentration corrections, you must use Performance Specification 3 (40 CFR part 60, appendix B), to certify your oxygen CEMS, and you must comply with procedure 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix F). Use Method 3A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2), as the reference method when conducting a relative accuracy test audit.



---

[N] [69 FR 5063, Feb. 3, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 40763, July 7, 2020]




