# § 206.114   Criteria for continued or additional assistance.

(a) *General.* FEMA expects all recipients of assistance under this subpart to obtain and occupy permanent housing at the earliest possible time. FEMA may provide initial and continued temporary housing assistance, financial or direct, upon request during the period of assistance, based on need, and generally only when adequate, alternate housing is not available or when the permanent housing plan has not been fulfilled through no fault of the applicant.


(b) *Rental assistance.* FEMA may provide initial financial assistance for rent, also known as initial rental assistance, as described in § 206.117(b)(1)(i), to displaced eligible applicants to rent alternate housing accommodations for an initial time period established by FEMA.


(1) FEMA may periodically recertify all displaced applicants who received initial rental assistance and request continued rental assistance. All displaced applicants requesting continued rental assistance must take the following actions at certain points throughout the recertification process:


(i) Submit rent receipts to show that they have exhausted or will exhaust previously provided funds;


(ii) Provide documentation demonstrating they lack the financial ability to pay their post-disaster housing costs and have a continued need for rental assistance;


(iii) Establish a realistic permanent housing plan; and


(iv) Provide documentation showing that they are making efforts to obtain permanent housing.


(2) FEMA expects that pre-disaster renters will use their initial rental assistance to obtain permanent housing. However, FEMA may provide continued rental assistance to pre-disaster renters with a continuing disaster-related housing need.


(c) *Direct housing assistance.* FEMA may provide direct housing assistance as described in § 206.117(b)(1)(ii), to displaced eligible applicants who are unable to make use of financial assistance to rent adequate alternate housing. FEMA may periodically recertify all displaced applicants receiving direct housing assistance for continued direct housing assistance. All displaced applicants who need continued direct housing assistance must take the following actions at certain points throughout the recertification process:


(1) Establish a realistic permanent housing plan; and


(2) Provide documentation showing that they are making efforts to obtain permanent housing throughout the recertification process.


(d) *Other assistance.* FEMA may provide repairs or housing replacement assistance, as described in § 206.117(b)(2) and § 206.117(b)(3), lodging expense reimbursement, as described in § 206.117(b)(1)(i), or other needs assistance, as described in § 206.119, to eligible applicants.


(1) If FEMA requires more information to process an applicant's initial request for assistance, it may request additional information.


(2) After the initial award of assistance, applicants requesting additional assistance for repairs, housing replacement, lodging expense reimbursement, personal property, transportation, child care, medical, dental, funeral, moving and storage, or other necessary expenses and serious needs may submit an appeal as outlined in § 206.115 and will be required to submit information and/or verifiable documentation established via guidance identifying the additional need.



---

[N] [89 FR 4120, Jan. 22, 2024]




