# ยง 3.125   Facilities, general.

(a) *Structural strength.* The facility must be constructed of such material and of such strength as appropriate for the animals involved. The indoor and outdoor housing facilities shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to contain the animals. 


(b) *Water and power.* Reliable and adequate electric power, if required to comply with other provisions of this subpart, and adequate potable water shall be available on the premises. 


(c) *Storage.* Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored in facilities which adequately protect such supplies against deterioration, molding, or contamination by vermin. Refrigeration shall be provided for supplies of perishable food. 


(d) *Waste disposal.* Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, trash and debris. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors, and disease hazards. The disposal facilities and any disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, trash, and debris shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations relating to pollution control or the protection of the environment. 


(e) *Washroom and sinks.* Facilities, such as washrooms, basins, showers, or sinks, shall be provided to maintain cleanliness among animal caretakers. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24925, Dec. 24, 1971. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, June 22, 1979, and amended at 44 FR 63492, Nov. 2, 1979] 




