# § 1.266-1   Taxes and carrying charges chargeable to capital account and treated as capital items.

(a)(1) *In general.* In accordance with section 266, items enumerated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be capitalized at the election of the taxpayer. Thus, taxes and carrying charges with respect to property of the type described in this section are chargeable to capital account at the election of the taxpayer, notwithstanding that they are otherwise expressly deductible under provisions of Subtitle A of the Code. No deduction is allowable for any items so treated.


(2) See §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 for rules regarding the requirement to capitalize interest, that apply prior to the application of this section. After applying §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15, a taxpayer may elect to capitalize interest under section 266 with respect to designated property within the meaning of § 1.263A-8(b), provided a computation under any provision of the Internal Revenue Code is not thereby materially distorted, including computations relating to the source of deductions.


(b) *Taxes and carrying charges.* (1) The taxpayer may elect, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, to treat the items enumerated in this subparagraph which are otherwise expressly deductible under the provisions of Subtitle A of the Code as chargeable to capital account either as a component of original cost or other basis, for the purposes of section 1012, or as an adjustment to basis, for the purposes of section 1016(a)(1). The items thus chargeable to capital account are: 


(i) In the case of unimproved and unproductive real property: Annual taxes, interest on a mortgage, and other carrying charges. 


(ii) In the case of real property, whether improved or unimproved and whether productive or unproductive: 


(*a*) Interest on a loan (but not theoretical interest of a taxpayer using his own funds), 


(*b*) Taxes of the owner of such real property measured by compensation paid to his employees, 


(*c*) Taxes of such owner imposed on the purchase of materials, or on the storage, use, or other consumption of materials, and 


(*d*) Other necessary expenditures, 


(iii) In the case of personal property: 


(*a*) Taxes of an employer measured by compensation for services rendered in transporting machinery or other fixed assets to the plant or installing them therein, 


(*b*) Interest on a loan to purchase such property or to pay for transporting or installing the same, and 


(*c*) Taxes of the owner thereof imposed on the purchase of such property or on the storage, use, or other consumption of such property, 


(iv) Any other taxes and carrying charges with respect to property, otherwise deductible, which in the opinion of the Commissioner are, under sound accounting principles, chargeable to capital account. 


(2) The sole effect of section 266 is to permit the items enumerated in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to be chargeable to capital account notwithstanding that such items are otherwise expressly deductible under the provisions of Subtitle A of the Code. An item not otherwise deductible may not be capitalized under section 266. 


(3) In the absence of a provision in this section for treating a given item as a capital item, this section has no effect on the treatment otherwise accorded such item. Thus, items which are otherwise deductible are deductible notwithstanding the provisions of this section, and items which are otherwise treated as capital items are to be so treated. Similarly, an item not otherwise deductible is not made deductible by this section. Nor is the absence of a provision in this section for treating a given item as a capital item to be construed as withdrawing or modifying the right now given to the taxpayer under any other provisions of subtitle A of the Code, or of the regulations thereunder, to elect to capitalize or to deduct a given item. 


(c) *Election to charge taxes and carrying charges to capital account.* (1) If for any taxable year there are two or more items of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, which relate to the same project to which the election is applicable, the taxpayer may elect to capitalize any one or more of such items even though he does not elect to capitalize the remaining items or to capitalize items of the same type relating to other projects. However, if expenditures for several items of the same type are incurred with respect to a single project, the election to capitalize must, if exercised, be exercised as to all items of that type. For purposes of this section, a *project* means, in the case of items described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a particular development of, or construction of an improvement to, real property, and in the case of items described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the transportation and installation of machinery or other fixed assets. 


(2)(i) An election with respect to an item described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is effective only for the year for which it is made. 


(ii) An election with respect to an item described in: 


(*a*) Paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section is effective until the development or construction work described in that subdivision has been completed; 


(*b*) Paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section is effective until the later of either the date of installation of the property described in that subdivision, or the date when such property is first put into use by the taxpayer; 


(*c*) Paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section is effective as determined by the Commissioner. 


(3) If the taxpayer elects to capitalize an item or items under this section, such election shall be exercised by filing with the original return for the year for which the election is made a statement indicating the item or items (whether with respect to the same project or to different projects) which the taxpayer elects to treat as chargeable to capital account. Elections filed for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1954, and for taxable years ending before August 17, 1954, under section 24(a)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and the regulations thereunder, shall have the same effect as if they were filed under this section. See section 7807(b)(2). 


(d) The following examples are illustrative of the application of the provisions of this section: 


(e) *Allocation.* If any tax or carrying charge with respect to property is in part a type of item described in paragraph (b) of this section and in part a type of item or items with respect to which no election to treat as a capital item is given, a reasonable proportion of such tax or carrying charge, determined in the light of all the facts and circumstances in each case, shall be allocated to each item. The rule of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example: 



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11402, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67215, Dec. 29, 1994]




