# § 3285.306   Design procedures for concrete block piers.

(a) *Frame piers less than 36 inches high.* (1) Frame piers less than 36 inches high are permitted to be constructed of single, open, or closed-cell concrete blocks, 8 inches “ 8 inches “ 16 inches, when the design capacity of the block is not exceeded.


(2) The frame piers must be installed so that the long sides are at right angles to the supported I-beam, as shown in Figure A to this section.


(3) The concrete blocks must be stacked with their hollow cells aligned vertically and must be positioned at right angles to the footings.


(4) Horizontal offsets from the top to the bottom of the pier must not exceed one-half inch.


(5) Mortar is not required, unless specified in the installation instructions or required by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.


(b) *Frame piers 36 inches to 67 inches high and corner piers.* (1) All frame piers between 36 inches and 67 inches high and all corner piers over three blocks high must be constructed out of double, interlocked concrete blocks, as shown in Figure B to this section, when the design capacity of the block is not exceeded. Mortar is not required for concrete block piers, unless otherwise specified in the installation instructions or required by a professional engineer or registered architect.


(2) Horizontal offsets from the top to the bottom of the pier must not exceed one inch.


(c) *All piers over 67 inches high.* Piers over 67 inches high must be designed by a registered professional engineer or registered architect, in accordance with acceptable engineering practice. Mortar is not required for concrete block piers, unless otherwise specified in the manufacturer installation instructions or by the design.


