# § 429.57   General service lamps.

(a) *Determination of represented value.* Manufacturers must determine represented values, which includes certified ratings, for each basic model of general service lamp in accordance with following sampling provisions.


(1) The requirements of § 429.11 are applicable to general service lamps, and


(2) For general service incandescent lamps, use § 429.66(a);


(3) For compact fluorescent lamps, use § 429.35(a);


(4) For integrated LED lamps, use § 429.56(a);


(5) For other incandescent lamps, use § 429.66(a);


(6) For other fluorescent lamps, use § 429.35(a); and


(7) For OLED lamps and non-integrated LED lamps, use § 429.56(a).






(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to general service lamps;


(2) Values reported in certification reports are represented values;


(3) For general service incandescent lamps, use § 429.66(b);


(4) For compact fluorescent lamps, use § 429.35(b);


(5) For integrated LED lamps, use § 429.56(b); and


(6) For other incandescent lamps, for other fluorescent lamps, for OLED lamps and non-integrated LED lamps, pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public product-specific information: The testing laboratory's ILAC accreditation body's identification number or other approved identification assigned by the ILAC accreditation body, initial lumen output, input power, lamp efficacy, and power factor. For non-integrated LED lamps, the certification report must also include the input voltage and current used for testing.






(c) *Rounding requirements.* (1) Round input power to the nearest tenth of a watt.


(2) Round initial lumen output to three significant digits.


(3) Round lamp efficacy to the nearest tenth of a lumen per watt.


(4) Round power factor to the nearest hundredths place.


(5) Round standby mode power to the nearest tenth of a watt.



---

[N] [81 FR 72503, Oct. 20, 2016, as amended at 90 FR 6789, Jan. 21, 2025]




