# § 308.501   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart: 


(a) *Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)* means the presiding officer appointed by the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818 note and 5 U.S.C. 3105. 


(b) *Authority* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 


(c) *Authority head* or *Board* means the Board of Directors of the FDIC, which is herein designated by the Chairman of the FDIC to serve as head of the FDIC for PFCRA matters. 


(d) *Benefit* means, in the context of “statement” as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3801(a)(9), any financial assistance received from the FDIC that amounts to $150,000 or less. The term does not include the FDIC's deposit insurance program. 


(e) *Claim* means any request, demand, or submission: 


(1) Made to the FDIC for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits); 


(2) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the FDIC or to a party to a contract with the FDIC; 


(i) For property or services if the United States: 


(A) Provided such property or services; 


(B) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or 


(C) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; 


(ii) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States: 


(A) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or 


(B) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or 


(3) Made to the FDIC that has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money. 


(f) *Complaint* means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 308.506 of this subpart. 


(g) *Corporation* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 


(h) *Defendant* means any person alleged in a complaint under § 308.506 of this subpart to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 308.502 of this subpart. 


(i) *Government* means the United States Government. 


(j) *Individual* means a natural person. 


(k) *Initial decision* means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 308.509 or § 308.536 of this subpart, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for consideration. 


(l) *Investigating official* means the Inspector General of the FDIC, or an officer or employee of the Inspector General designated by the Inspector General. The investigating official must serve in a position that has a rate of basic pay under the pay scale utilized by the FDIC that is equal to or greater than 120 percent of the minimum rate of basic pay for grade 15 under the federal government's General Schedule. 


(m) *Knows or has reason to know,* means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement: 


(1) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; 


(2) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or 


(3) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement. 


(n) *Makes,* wherever it appears, includes the terms “presents”, “submits”, and “causes to be made, presented, or submitted.” As the context requires, “making” or “made” likewise includes the corresponding forms of such terms. 


(o) *Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization, and includes the plural of that term. 


(p) *Representative* means an attorney, who is a member in good standing of the bar of any state, territory, or possession of the United States or of the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and designated by a party in writing. 


(q) *Reviewing official* means the General Counsel of the FDIC or his designee who is: 


(1) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official; 


(2) Not employed in the organizational unit of the FDIC in which the investigating official is employed; and 


(3) Serving in a position that has a rate of basic pay under the pay scale utilized by the FDIC that is equal to or greater than 120 percent of the minimum rate of basic pay for grade 15 under the federal government's General Schedule. 


(r) *Statement* means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made: 


(1) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or 


(2) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for): 


(i) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or 


(ii) A grant, loan, or benefit received, directly or indirectly, from the FDIC, or any state, political subdivision of a state, or other party, if the United States government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the government will reimburse such state, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit. 




