# ยง 206.171   Crisis counseling assistance and training.

(a) *Purpose.* This section establishes the policy, standards, and procedures for implementing section 416 of the Act, Crisis Counseling Assistance and Training. FEMA will look to the Director, National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), as the delegate of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS).


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *Assistant Administrator * means the head of the Disaster Assistance Directorate; the official who approves or disapproves a request for assistance under section 416 of the Act, and is the final appeal authority.


(2) *Crisis* means any life situation resulting from a major disaster or its aftermath which so affects the emotional and mental equilibrium of a disaster victim that professional mental health counseling services should be provided to help preclude possible damaging physical or psychological effects.


(3) *Crisis counseling* means the application of individual and group treatment procedures which are designed to ameliorate the mental and emotional crises and their subsequent psychological and behavioral conditions resulting from a major disaster or its aftermath.


(4) *Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO)* means the person appointed by the Administrator or Deputy Administrator to coordinate Federal assistance in an emergency or a major disaster.


(5) *Grantee* means the State mental health agency or other local or private mental health organization which is designated by the Governor to receive funds under section 416 of the Act.


(6) *Immediate services* means those screening or diagnostic techniques which can be applied to meet mental health needs immediately after a major disaster. Funds for immediate services may be provided directly by the Regional Administrator to the State or local mental health agency designated by the Governor, prior to and separate from the regular program application process of crisis counseling assistance.


(7) *Major disaster* means any natural catastrophe (including any hurricane, tornado, storm, high water, winddriven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm or drought), or, regardless of cause, any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part of the United States, which in the determination of the President causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant major disaster assistance under this Act to supplement the efforts and available resources of States, local governments, and disaster relief organizations in alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby.


(8) *Project Officer* means the person assigned by the Secretary, DHHS, to monitor a crisis counseling program, provide consultation, technical assistance, and guidance, and be the contact point within the DHHS for program matters.


(9) *Regional Administrator * means the director of a regional office of FEMA, or the Disaster Recovery Manager, as the delegate of the Regional Administrator.


(10) *Secretary* means the Secretary of DHHS or his/her delegate.


(11) *State Coordinating Officer (SCO)* means the person appointed by the Governor to act in cooperation with the FCO.


(c) *Agency policy.* (1) It is agency policy to provide crisis counseling services, when required, to victims of a major disaster for the purpose of relieving mental health problems caused or aggravated by a major disaster or its aftermath. Assistance provided under this section is short-term in nature and is provided at no cost to eligible disaster victims.


(2) The Regional Administrator and Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, in fulfilling their responsibilities under this section, shall coordinate with the Secretary.


(3) In meeting the responsibilities under this section, the Secretary or his/her delegate will coordinate with the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate.


(d) *State initiation of the crisis counseling program.* To obtain assistance under this section, the Governor or his/her authorized representative must initiate an assessment of the need for crisis counseling services within 10 days of the date of the major disaster declaration. The purpose of the assessment is to provide an estimate of the size and cost of the program needed and to determine if supplemental Federal assistance is required. The factors of the assessment must include those described in paragraphs (f)(2) (ii) and (iii) and (g)(2) (iii) and (iv) of this section.


(e) *Public or private mental health agency programs.* If the Governor determines during the assessment that because of unusual circumstances or serious conditions within the State or local mental health network, the State cannot carry out the crisis counseling program, he/she may identify a public or private mental health agency or organization to carry out the program or request the Regional Administrator to identify, with the assistance of the Secretary, such an agency or organization. Preference should be given to the extent feasible and practicable to those public and private agencies or organizations which are located in or do business primarily in the major disaster area.


(f) *Immediate services.* If, during the course of the assessment, the State determines that immediate mental health services are required because of the severity and magnitude of the disaster, and if State or local resources are insufficient to provide these services, the State may request and the Regional Administrator, upon determining that State resources are insufficient, may provide funds to the State, separate from the application process for regular program funds (described at paragraph (g) of this section).


(1) The application must be submitted to the Regional Administrator no later than 14 days following the declaration of the major disaster. This application represents the Governor's agreement and/or certification:


(i) That the requirements are beyond the State and local governments' capabilities;


(ii) That the program, if approved, will be implemented according to the plan contained in the application approved by the Regional Administrator;


(iii) To maintain close coordination with and provide reports to the Regional Administrator; and


(iv) To include mental health disaster planning in the State's emergency plan prepared under title II of the Stafford Act.


(2) The application must include:


(i) The geographical areas within the designated disaster area for which services will be provided;


(ii) An estimate of the number of disaster victims requiring assistance;


(iii) A description of the State and local resources and capabilities, and an explanation of why these resources cannot meet the need;


(iv) A description of response activities from the date of the disaster incident to the date of application;


(v) A plan of services to be provided to meet the identified needs; and


(vi) A detailed budget, showing the cost of proposed services separately from the cost of reimbursement for any eligible services provided prior to application.


(3) *Reporting requirements.* The State shall submit to the Regional Administrator:


(i) A mid-program report only when a regular program grant application is being prepared and submitted. This report will be included as part of the regular program grant application;


(ii) A final program report, a financial status report, and a final voucher 90 days after the last day of immediate services funding.


(4) Immediate services program funding:


(i) Shall not exceed 60 days following the declaration of the major disaster, except when a regular program grant application has been submitted;


(ii) May continue for up to 30 additional days when a regular program grant application has been submitted;


(iii) May be extended by the Regional Administrator, upon written request from the State, documenting extenuating circumstances; and


(iv) May reimburse the State for documented, eligible expenses from the date of the occurrence of the event or incurred in anticipation of and immediately preceding the disaster event which results in a declaration.


(v) Any funds granted pursuant to an immediate services program, paragraph (f) of this section, shall be expended solely for the purposes specified in the approved application and budget, these regulations, the terms and conditions of the award, and the applicable principles prescribed in 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002.


(5) *Appeals.* There are two levels of appeals. If a State submits appeals at both levels, the first appeal must be submitted early enough to allow the latter appeal to be submitted within 60 days following the date of the funding determination on the immediate services program application.


(i) The State may appeal the Regional Administrator's decision. This appeal must be submitted in writing within 60 days of the date of notification of the application decision, but early enough to allow for further appeal if desired. The appeal must include information justifying a reversal of the decision. The Regional Director shall review the material submitted, and after consultation with the Secretary, notify the State, in writing within 15 days of receipt of the appeal, of his/her decision;


(ii) The State may further appeal the Regional Administrator's decision to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. This appeal shall be made in writing within 60 days of the date of the Regional Administrator's notification of the decision on the immediate services application. The appeal must include information justifying a reversal of the decision. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or other impartial person, shall review the material submitted, and after consultation with the Secretary and Regional Administrator, notify the State, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the appeal, of his/her decision.


(g) *Regular program.* (1) The application must be submitted by the Governor or his/her authorized representative to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate through the Regional Administrator, and simultaneously to the Secretary no later than 60 days following the declaration of the major disaster. This application represents the Governor's agreement and/or certification:


(i) That the requirements are beyond the State and local governments' capabilities;


(ii) That the program, if approved, will be implemented according to the plan contained in the application approved by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate;


(iii) To maintain close coordination with and provide reports to the Regional Administrator, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, and the Secretary; and


(iv) To include mental health disaster planning in the State's emergency plan prepared under title II of the Stafford Act.


(2) The application must include:


(i) Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance;


(ii) The geographical areas within the designated disaster area for which services will be supplied;


(iii) An estimate of the number of disaster victims requiring assistance. This documentation of need should include the extent of physical, psychological, and social problems observed, the types of mental health problems encountered by victims, and a description of how the estimate was made;


(iv) A description of the State and local resources and capabilities, and an explanation of why these resources cannot meet the need;


(v) A plan of services which must include at a minimum:


(A) The manner in which the program will address the needs of the affected population, including the types of services to be offered, an estimate of the length of time for which mental health services will be required, and the manner in which long-term cases will be handled;


(B) A description of the organizational structure of the program, including designation by the Governor of an individual to serve as administrator of the program. If more than one agency will be delivering services, the plan to coordinate services must also be described;


(C) A description of the training program for project staff, indicating the number of workers needing such training;


(D) A description of the facilities to be utilized, including plans for securing office space if necessary to the project; and


(E) A detailed budget, including identification of the resources the State and local governments will commit to the project, proposed funding levels for the different agencies if more than one is involved, and an estimate of the required Federal contribution.


(3) *Reporting requirements.* The State shall submit the following reports to the Regional Administrator, the Secretary, and the State Coordinating Officer:


(i) Quarterly progress reports, as required by the Regional Administrator or the Secretary, due 30 days after the end of the reporting period. This is consistent with 2 CFR 200.328, Monitoring and Reporting Program Performance;


(ii) A final program report, to be submitted within 90 days after the end of the program period. This is also consistent with 2 CFR 200.328, Monitoring and Reporting Program Performance;


(iii) An accounting of funds, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.327, Financial Reporting, to be submitted with the final program report; and


(iv) Such additional reports as the Regional Administrator, Secretary, or SCO may require.


(4) Regular program funding:


(i) Shall not exceed 9 months from the date of the DHHS notice of grant award, except that upon the request of the State to the Regional Administrator and the Secretary, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may authorize up to 90 days of additional program period because of documented extraordinary circumstances. In limited circumstances, such as disasters of a catastrophic nature, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may extend the program period for more than 90 days where he or she deems it to be in the public interest. 


(ii) The amount of the regular program grant award will take into consideration the Secretary's estimate of the sum necessary to carry out the grant purpose.


(iii) Any funds granted pursuant to a regular program, paragraph (g) of this section, shall be expended solely for the purposes specified in the approved application and budget, these regulations, the terms and conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles prescribed in subpart Q of 45 CFR part 92.


(5) *Appeals.* The State may appeal the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate 's decision, in writing, within 60 days of the date of notification of the decision. The appeal must include information justifying a reversal of the decision. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or other impartial person, in consultation with the Secretary and Regional Administrator, shall review the material submitted and notify the State, in writing within 15 days of receipt of the appeal, of his/her decision.


(h) *Eligibility guidelines.* (1) For services. An individual may be eligible for crisis counseling services if he/she was a resident of the designated major disaster areas or was located in the area at the time of the disaster event and if:


(i) He/she has a mental health problem which was caused or aggravated by the major disaster or its aftermath; or


(ii) He/she may benefit from preventive care techniques.


(2) For training. (i) The crisis counseling project staff or consultants to the project are eligible for the specific instruction that may be required to enable them to provide professional mental health crisis counseling to eligible individuals;


(ii) All Federal, State, and local disaster workers responsible for assisting disaster victims are eligible for general instruction designed to enable them to deal effectively and humanely with disaster victims.


(i) *Assignment of responsibilities.* (1) The Regional Administrator shall:


(i) In the case of an immediate services program application, acknowledge receipt of the request, verify (with assistance from the Secretary) that State resources are insufficient, approve or disapprove the State's application, obligate and advance funds for this purpose, review appeals, make a determination (with assistance from the Secretary), and notify the State;


(ii) In the case of a regular program grant application:


(A) Acknowledge receipt of the request;


(B) Request the Secretary to conduct a review to determine the extent to which assistance requested by the Governor or his/her authorized representative is warranted;


(C) Considering the Secretary's recommendation, recommend approval or disapproval of the application for assistance under this section; and forward the Regional Administrator's and Secretary's recommendations and documentation to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate;


(D) Assist the State in preliminary surveys and provide guidance and technical assistance if requested to do so; and


(E) Maintain liaison with the Secretary and look to the Secretary for program oversight and monitoring.


(2) The Secretary shall:


(i) Provide technical assistance, consultation, and guidance to the Regional Administrator in reviewing a State's application, to a State during program implementation and development, and to mental health agencies, as appropriate;


(ii) At the request of the Regional Administrator, conduct a review to verify the extent to which the requested assistance is needed and provide a recommendation on the need for supplementary Federal assistance. The review must include:


(A) A verification of the need for services with an indication of how the verification was conducted;


(B) Identification of the Federal mental health programs in the area, and the extent to which such existing programs can help alleviate the need;


(C) An identification of State, local, and private mental health resources, and the extent to which these resources can assume the workload without assistance under this section and the extent to which supplemental assistance is warranted;


(D) A description of the needs; and


(E) A determination of whether the plan adequately addresses the mental health needs;


(iii) If the application is approved, provide grant assistance to States or the designated public or private entities;


(iv) If the application is approved, monitor the progress of the program and perform program oversight;


(v) Coordinate with, and provide program reports to, the Regional Administrator, and the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate;


(vi) Make the appeal determination, for regular program grants, involving allowable costs and termination for cause as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section;


(vii) As part of the project monitoring responsibilities, report to the Regional Administrator and Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate at least quarterly on the progress of crisis counseling programs, in a report format jointly agreed upon by the Secretary and FEMA; provide special reports, as requested by the Regional Administrator, FCO, or Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate;


(viii) Require progress reports and other reports from the grantee to facilitate his/her project monitoring responsibilities;


(ix) Properly account for all Federal funds made available to grantees under this section. Submit to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, within 120 days of completion of a program, a final accounting of all expenditures for the program and return to FEMA all excess funds. Attention is called to the reimbursement requirements of this part.


(3) The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall:


(i) Approve or disapprove a State's request for assistance based on recommendations of the Regional Administrator and the Secretary;


(ii) Obligate funds and authorize advances of funds to the DHHS;


(iii) Request that the Secretary designate a Project Officer;


(iv) Maintain liaison with the Secretary and Regional Administrator; and


(v) Review and make determinations on appeals, except for regular program appeals involving allowable costs and termination for cause as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, and notify the State of the decision.


(j) *Grant awards.* (1) Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any grant commits or obligates the United States in any way to make any additional, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of any approved application.


(2) Several other regulations of the DHHS apply to grants under this section. These include, but are not limited to:


(k) *Federal audits.* The crisis counseling program is subject to Federal audit. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, the Regional Administrator, the DHS Inspector General, The Secretary, and the Comptroller General of the United States, or their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records that pertain to Federal funds, equipment, and supplies received under this section for the purpose of audit and examination.



---

[N] [54 FR 11615, Mar. 21, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 9900, Mar. 3, 2003; 79 FR 76085, Dec. 19, 2014]




