# § 300.65   Catch sharing plan and domestic management measures in waters in and off Alaska.

(a) A catch sharing plan (CSP) may be developed by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council and approved by NMFS for portions of the fishery. Any approved CSP may be obtained from the Administrator, Alaska Region, NMFS.


(b) The catch sharing plan for Commission regulatory area 4 allocates the annual commercial catch limit among Areas 4C, 4D, and 4E and will be adopted by the Commission as annual management measures and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62.


(c) *Catch sharing plan (CSP) for Commission Regulatory Areas 2C and 3A*—(1) *General.* The catch sharing plan for Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A:


(i) Allocates the annual combined catch limit for Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A in order to establish the annual commercial catch limit and the annual guided sport catch limit for the halibut commercial fishing and sport fishing seasons, pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section; and


(ii) Authorizes the use of Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A halibut IFQ as guided angler fish (GAF) for harvest by charter vessel anglers in the corresponding area, pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section.


(iii) Authorizes the use of Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A RFQ resulting from halibut QS held by the RQE as authorized in part 679 to this title to supplement the annual guided sport catch limit in the corresponding area, pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(2) *Implementation.* The Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A CSP annual combined catch limits, annual commercial catch limits, and annual guided sport catch limits are adopted by the Commission as annual management measures and published by NMFS in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62.


(3) *Annual commercial catch limits.* (i) The Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A annual commercial catch limits are determined by subtracting wastage from the allocations in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart E, adopted by the Commission as annual management measures, and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62.


(ii) Commercial fishing in Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A is governed by the Commission's annual management measures and by regulations at 50 CFR part 679, subparts A, B, D, and E.


(4) *Annual guided sport catch limits.* (i) The Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A annual guided sport catch limits are determined by subtracting wastage from, and adding any pounds of RFQ held by an RQE for that area to, the allocations in Tables 3 and 4 of this subpart, adopted by the Commission as annual management measures, and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62.

(ii) Sport fishing by charter vessel anglers in Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A is governed by the Commission's annual management measures and by regulations at 50 CFR part 300, subparts A and E.


(iii) The amount of QS held by the RQE for Commission regulatory area 2C and 3A as of October 1 each year will be the basis for determining the amount of RFQ pounds that will be added to the annual guided sport catch limit for the corresponding area in the upcoming year.


(5) *Guided Angler Fish (GAF).* This paragraph (§ 300.65(c)(5)) governs the transfer of Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A halibut between individual fishing quota (IFQ) and guided angler fish (GAF), the issuance of GAF permits, and GAF use.


(i) *General.* (A) GAF is derived from halibut IFQ that is transferred from a Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A IFQ permit holder's account held by a person who also holds quota share (QS), as defined in § 679.2 of this title, to a GAF permit holder's account for the same regulatory area.


(B) A GAF permit authorizes a charter vessel angler to retain GAF that are caught in the Commission regulatory area specified on a GAF permit:


(*1*) During the sport halibut fishing season adopted by the Commission as annual management measures and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62, and


(*2*) Subject to the GAF use restrictions at paragraphs (c)(5)(iv)(A) through (K) of this section.


(C) NMFS will return unharvested GAF to the IFQ permit holder's account from which the GAF were derived on or after fifteen calendar days prior to the closing of the commercial halibut fishing season each year, subject to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section and underage provisions at § 679.40(e) of this title.


(ii) *Transfer Between IFQ and GAF*—(A) *General.* A transfer between IFQ and GAF means any transaction in which halibut IFQ passes between an IFQ permit holder and a GAF permit holder as:


(*1*) A transfer of IFQ to GAF, in which halibut IFQ equivalent pounds, as defined in § 679.2 of this title, are transferred from a Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A IFQ permit account, converted to number(s) of GAF as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(E) of this section, and assigned to a GAF permit holder's account in the same management area;


(*2*) A transfer of GAF to IFQ, in which GAF in number(s) of fish are transferred from a GAF permit holder's account in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A, converted to IFQ equivalent pounds as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(E) of this section, and assigned to the same IFQ permit holder's account from which the GAF were derived; or


(*3*) The return of unharvested GAF by NMFS to the IFQ permit holder's account from which it was derived, on or after 15 calendar days prior to the closing of the commercial halibut fishing season.


(B) *Transfer procedure*—(*1*) *Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF.* A transfer between IFQ and GAF requires Regional Administrator review and approval of a complete Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF. Both the transferor and the transferee are required to complete and sign the application. Transfers will be conducted via methods approved by NMFS. The Regional Administrator shall provide an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov/ram/default.htm.* An Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF is not required for the return of unharvested GAF by NMFS to the IFQ permit holder's account from which it was derived, 15 calendar days prior to the closing of the commercial halibut fishing season for that year.


(*2*) *Application timing.* The Regional Administrator will not approve any Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF before annual IFQ is issued for each year or after one month prior to the closing of the commercial fishing season for that year. Applications to transfer GAF to IFQ will be accepted from August 1 through August 31 only.


(*3*) *Transfer due to court order, operation of law, or as part of a security agreement.* NMFS may approve an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF to return GAF to the IFQ permit holder's account from which it derived pursuant to a court order, operation of law, or a security agreement.


(*4*) *Notification of decision on application.* (*i*) Persons who submit an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF to the Regional Administrator will receive notification of the Regional Administrator's decision to approve or disapprove the application for transfer.


(*ii*) If an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF is disapproved, NMFS will provide the reason(s) in writing by mail, posted on the date of that decision.


(*iii*) Disapproval of an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF may be appealed pursuant to § 679.43 of this title.


(*iv*) The Regional Administrator will not approve a transfer between IFQ and GAF on an interim basis if an applicant appeals a disapproval of an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF pursuant to § 679.43 of this title.


(*5*) *IFQ and GAF accounts.* (*i*) Accounts affected by either a Regional Administrator-approved Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF or the return of unharvested GAF to IFQ on or after 15 calendar days prior to the closing of the commercial halibut fishing season for that year will be adjusted on the date of approval or return. Applications for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF that are transfers of GAF to IFQ that have been approved by the Regional Administrator will be completed not earlier than September 1. Any necessary permits will be sent with the notification of the Regional Administrator's decision on the Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF.


(*ii*) Upon approval of an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF for an initial transfer from IFQ to GAF, NMFS will establish a new GAF account for the GAF applicant's account and issue the resulting new GAF and IFQ permits. If a GAF account already exists from a previous transfer from the same IFQ account in the corresponding management area in that year, NMFS will modify the GAF recipient's GAF account and the IFQ transferor's permit account and issue modified GAF and IFQ permits upon approval of an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF.


(*iii*) On or after 15 calendar days prior to the closing of the commercial halibut fishing season, NMFS will convert unharvested GAF from a GAF permit holder's account back into IFQ equivalent pounds as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(E)(*2*) of this section, and return the resulting IFQ equivalent pounds to the IFQ permit holder's account from which the GAF were derived, unless prevented by regulations at 15 CFR part 904.


(C) *Complete application.* Applicants must submit a completed Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF to the Regional Administrator as instructed on the application. NMFS will notify applicants with incomplete applications of the specific information necessary to complete the application.


(D) *Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF approval criteria.* An Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF will not be approved until the Regional Administrator has determined that:


(*1*) The person applying to transfer IFQ to GAF or receive IFQ from a transfer of GAF to IFQ:


(*i*) Possesses at least one unit of halibut quota share (QS), as defined in § 679.2 of this title, in the applicable Commission regulatory area, either Area 2C or Area 3A, for which the transfer of IFQ to GAF is requested;


(*ii*) Has been issued an annual IFQ Permit, as defined in § 679.4(d)(1) of this title, for the Commission regulatory area corresponding to the person's QS holding, either Area 2C or Area 3A, resulting from that halibut QS; and


(*iii*) Has an IFQ permit holder's account with an IFQ amount equal to or greater than amount of IFQ to be transferred in the Commission regulatory area, either Area 2C or Area 3A, for which the transfer of IFQ to GAF is requested.


(*iv*) In the applicable Commission regulatory area, either Area 2C or Area 3A, the sum of IFQ halibut equivalent pounds, as defined in § 679.2 of this title, from the transfer of IFQ to GAF and the pounds of RFQ issued to the RQE during a calendar year does not exceed an amount that is greater than the amount derived from: 5,947,740 units of Area 2C QS, or 22,187,161 units of Area 3A QS.


(*2*) The person applying to receive or transfer GAF possesses a valid charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit in the Commission regulatory area (Area 2C or Area 3A) that corresponds to the IFQ permit area from or to which the IFQ will be transferred.


(*3*) For a transfer of IFQ to GAF:


(*i*) The transfer between IFQ and GAF must not cause the GAF permit issued to exceed the GAF use limits in paragraphs (c)(5)(iv)(H)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section;


(*ii*) The transfer must not cause the person applying to transfer IFQ to exceed the GAF use limit in paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(H)(*3*) of this section; and


(*iii*) There must be no fines, civil penalties, sanctions, or other payments due and owing, or outstanding permit sanctions, resulting from Federal fishery violations involving either person or permit.


(*4*) If a Community Quota Entity (CQE), as defined in § 679.2 of this title, submits a “Community Quota Entity Application for Transfer Between Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ) and Guided Angler Fish (GAF),” the application will not be approved until the Regional Administrator has determined that:


(*i*) The CQE applying to transfer IFQ to GAF is eligible to hold IFQ on behalf of the eligible community in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A designated in Table 21 to 50 CFR part 679;


(*ii*) The CQE applying to transfer IFQ to GAF has received notification of approval of eligibility to receive IFQ for that community as described in § 679.41(d)(1) of this title;


(*iii*) The CQE applying to receive GAF from a Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A IFQ permit holder holds one or more charter halibut permits or community charter halibut permits for the corresponding area; and


(*iv*) The CQE applying to transfer between IFQ and GAF has submitted a complete annual report(s) as required by § 679.5(t) of this title.


(E) *Conversion between IFQ and GAF*—(*1*) *General.* An annual conversion factor will be calculated to convert between net pounds (whole number, no decimal points) of halibut IFQ and number(s) of GAF (whole number, no decimal points) for Area 2C and Area 3A. This conversion factor will be posted on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site before the beginning of each commercial halibut fishing season.


(*2*) *Conversion calculation.* The net pounds of IFQ transferred to or from an IFQ permit holder in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A will be equal to the number(s) of GAF transferred to or from the GAF account of a GAF permit holder in the corresponding area, multiplied by the estimated average net weight determined as follows. For the first calendar year after the effective date of this rule, the average net weight will be estimated for all halibut harvested by charter vessel anglers during the most recent year without a size limit in effect. After the first calendar year after the effective date of this rule, the average net weight will be estimated from the average length of GAF retained in that area during the previous year as reported to RAM via the GAF electronic reporting system. If no GAF were harvested in a year, the conversion factor will be calculated using the same method as for the first calendar year after the effective date of this rule. NMFS will round up to the nearest whole number (no decimals) when transferring IFQ to GAF and when transferring GAF to IFQ. Expressed algebraically, the conversion formula is:


IFQ net pounds = (number of GAF × average net weight).


(*3*) The total number of net pounds converted from unharvested GAF and transferred to the IFQ permit holder's account from which it derived cannot exceed the total number of net pounds NMFS transferred from the IFQ permit holder's account to the GAF permit holder's account for that area in the current year.


(iii) *Guided Angler Fish (GAF) permit*—(A) *General.* (*1*) A GAF permit authorizes a charter vessel angler to catch and retain GAF in the specified Commission regulatory area, subject to the limits in paragraphs (c)(5)(iv)(A) through (K) of this section, during a charter vessel fishing trip authorized by the charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit that is designated on the GAF permit.


(*2*) A GAF permit authorizes a charter vessel angler to catch and retain GAF in the specified Commission regulatory area from the time of permit issuance until any of the following occurs:


(*i*) The amount of GAF in the GAF permit holder's account is zero;


(*ii*) The permit expires at 11:59 p.m. (Alaska local time) on the day prior to 15 days prior to the end of the commercial halibut fishing season for that year;


(*iii*) NMFS replaces the GAF permit with a modified GAF permit following NMFS approval of an Application for Transfer Between IFQ and GAF; or


(*iv*) The GAF permit is revoked or suspended under 15 CFR part 904.


(*3*) A GAF permit is issued for use in a Commission regulatory area (2C or 3A) to the person who holds a valid charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit in the corresponding Commission regulatory area. Regulations governing issuance, transfer, and use of charter halibut permits are located in § 300.67.


(*4*) A GAF permit is assigned to only one charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit held by the GAF permit holder in the corresponding Commission regulatory area (2C or 3A).


(*5*) If a charter vessel angler harvests GAF from a charter vessel with a charter vessel guide on board, a legible copy of a valid GAF permit and the assigned charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit appropriate for the Commission regulatory area (2C or 3A) must be carried by the charter vessel operator on board the charter vessel used to harvest GAF at all times that such fish are retained on board and must be presented for inspection on request of any authorized officer. If a charter vessel angler harvests GAF from a charter vessel without a charter vessel guide on board, the charter vessel guide must retain the legible copy of the GAF permit and the assigned charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit must be on the charter vessel with the charter vessel angler.


(*6*) No person may alter, erase, mutilate, or forge a GAF permit or document issued under this section (§ 300.65(c)(5)(iii)). Any such permit or document that has been intentionally altered, erased, mutilated, or forged is invalid.


(*7*) GAF permit holders must retain GAF permit(s) and associated GAF permit logs for two years after the end of the fishing year for which the GAF permit(s) was issued and make the GAF permit available for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer (as defined in Commission regulations).


(B) *Issuance.* The Regional Administrator will issue a GAF permit upon approval of an Application to Transfer Between IFQ and GAF.


(C) *Transfer.* GAF authorized by a GAF permit under this paragraph (§ 300.65(c)(5)(iii)) are not transferable to another GAF permit, except as provided under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.


(iv) *GAF use restrictions.* (A) If a charter vessel angler harvests GAF from a charter vessel with a charter vessel guide on board, the charter vessel guide must have on board a legible copy of a valid GAF permit and the valid charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit assigned to the GAF permit for the area of harvest. If a charter vessel angler harvests GAF from a charter vessel without a charter vessel guide on board, the legible copy of the valid GAF permit must be on board the same vessel as the charter vessel guide, and the original charter halibut permit, community charter halibut permit, or military charter halibut permit assigned to the GAF permit for the area of harvest must be on the charter vessel with the charter vessel angler.


(B) The total number of GAF on board a vessel cannot exceed the number of unharvested GAF in the GAF permit holder's GAF account at the time of harvest.


(C) The total number of halibut retained by a charter vessel angler harvesting GAF cannot exceed the sport fishing daily bag limit in effect for unguided sport anglers at the time of harvest adopted by the Commission as annual management measures and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62.


(D) Retained GAF are not subject to any length limit implemented by the Commission's annual management measures and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62, if applicable.


(E) Each charter vessel angler retaining GAF must comply with the halibut possession requirements adopted by the Commission as annual management measures and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62.


(F) The charter vessel guide must ensure that each charter vessel angler complies with paragraphs (c)(5)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section.


(G) The charter vessel guide must be physically present when the GAF halibut is harvested and must immediately remove the tips of the upper and lower lobes of the caudal (tail) fin to mark all halibut caught and retained as GAF. If the GAF halibut is filleted, the entire carcass, with head and tail connected as a single piece, must be retained on board the charter vessel on which the halibut was caught until all fillets are offloaded.


(H) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(I) of this section, during the halibut sport fishing season adopted by the Commission as annual management measures and published in the _Federal Register_ as required in § 300.62, the following GAF use and IFQ transfer limits shall apply. GAF use limits do not apply to military charter halibut permits.


(*1*) No more than 400 GAF may be assigned to a GAF permit that is assigned to a charter halibut permit or community charter halibut permit endorsed for six (6) or fewer charter vessel anglers in a year,


(*2*) No more than 600 GAF may be assigned to a GAF permit that is assigned to a charter halibut permit endorsed for more than six (6) charter vessel anglers in a year; and


(*3*) In Commission regulatory area 2C, a maximum of 1,500 pounds or ten (10) percent, whichever is greater, of the start year fishable IFQ pounds for an IFQ permit, may be transferred from IFQ to GAF. In Commission regulatory area 3A, a maximum of 1,500 pounds or fifteen (15) percent, whichever is greater, of the start year fishable IFQ pounds for an IFQ permit, may be transferred from IFQ to GAF. Start year fishable pounds is the sum of IFQ equivalent pounds, as defined in § 679.2 of this title, for an area, derived from QS held, plus or minus adjustments made to that amount pursuant to § 679.40(d) and (e) of this title.


(I) The halibut QS equivalent of net pounds of halibut IFQ that is transferred to GAF is included in the computation of halibut QS use caps in § 679.42(f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this title.


(J) A CHP holder receiving GAF from a CQE is subject to § 679.42(f)(6) of this title. For a CHP holder who receives GAF from a CQE, the net poundage equivalent of all halibut IFQ received as GAF is included in the computation of that person's IFQ halibut holdings in § 679.42(f)(6) of this title.


(K) Applicability of GAF use restrictions to CQEs. The GAF use restrictions in paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(H) of this section do not apply if:


(*1*) A CQE transfers IFQ as GAF to a GAF permit that is assigned to one or more charter halibut permits held by that CQE or community charter halibut permits held by that CQE;


(*2*) A CQE transfers IFQ as GAF to another CQE holding one or more charter halibut permits or community charter halibut permits; or


(*3*) A CQE transfers IFQ as GAF to a GAF permit that is assigned to a charter halibut permit held by an eligible community resident (as defined at § 679.2) of that CQE community, as defined for purposes of the Catch Sharing Plan for Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A in § 679.2 of this title, holding one or more charter halibut permits.


(d) *Charter vessels in Commission regulatory area 2C and 3A*—(1) *General requirements*—(i) *Logbook submission.* For a charter vessel fishing trip during which halibut were caught and retained on or after the first Monday in April and on or before December 31, Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G) Saltwater Sport Fishing Charter Trip Logbook data sheets must be submitted to the ADF&G and postmarked or received no later than 14 calendar days after the Monday of the fishing week (as defined in 50 CFR 300.61) in which the halibut were caught and retained. Logbook sheets for a charter vessel fishing trip during which halibut were caught and retained on January 1 through the first Sunday in April, must be submitted to the ADF&G and postmarked or received no later than the second Monday in April.


(ii) The charter vessel guide is responsible for complying with the reporting requirements of this paragraph (d). The person whose business was assigned an Alaska Department of Fish and Game Saltwater Sport Fishing Charter Trip Logbook is responsible for ensuring that the charter vessel guide complies with the reporting requirements of this paragraph (d).


(2) *Retention and inspection of logbook.* A person who is required to provide information pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, or whose business was assigned an Alaska Department of Fish and Game Saltwater Sport Fishing Charter Trip Logbook and whose charter vessel anglers retain halibut is required to:


(i) Retain all logbook data pages showing halibut harvest for 2 years after the end of the fishing year for which the logbook was issued, and


(ii) Make the logbook available for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer (as defined in Commission regulations).


(3) *Charter vessel guide and crew restriction in Commission regulatory areas 2C and 3A.* A charter vessel guide, charter vessel operator, or crew member may not catch and retain halibut during a charter vessel fishing trip in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A, except that charter vessel operators who are charter vessel anglers may catch and retain halibut during a charter vessel fishing trip if the charter vessel guide is on a separate charter vessel.


(4) *Recordkeeping and reporting requirements in Commission regulatory area 2C and 3A*—(i) *General requirements.* Each charter vessel angler and charter vessel guide in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements, except as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(C) of this section, by the end of the calendar day or by the end of the charter vessel fishing trip, whichever comes first, unless otherwise specified.

(ii) *Logbook reporting requirements*—(A) *Charter vessel angler signature requirement.* Each charter vessel angler who retains halibut caught in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A must acknowledge that his or her name, license number (if required), and number of halibut retained (kept) are recorded correctly by signing the Alaska Department of Fish and Game Saltwater Charter Logbook data sheet on the line that corresponds to the angler's information.


(B) *Charter vessel guide requirements.* If halibut were caught and retained in Commission regulatory area 2C or 3A, the charter vessel guide must record the following information (see paragraphs (d)(4)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*10*) of this section) in the Alaska Department of Fish and Game Saltwater Charter Logbook:


(*1*) *Guide license number.* The Alaska Department of Fish and Game sport fishing guide license or registration number held by the charter vessel guide who certified the logbook data sheet.


(*2*) *Date.* Month and day for each charter vessel fishing trip taken. A separate logbook data sheet is required for each charter vessel fishing trip if two or more trips are taken on the same day. A separate logbook data sheet is required for each calendar day that halibut are caught and retained during a multi-day trip. A separate logbook sheet is required if more than one charter halibut permit is used on a trip.


(*3*) *Charter halibut permit (CHP) number.* The NMFS CHP number(s) authorizing charter vessel anglers on that charter vessel fishing trip to catch and retain halibut.


(*4*) *Guided Angler Fish (GAF) permit number.* The NMFS GAF permit number(s) authorizing charter vessel anglers on that charter vessel fishing trip to harvest GAF.


(*5*) *Statistical area.* The primary Alaska Department of Fish and Game statistical area code in which halibut were caught and retained.


(*6*) *Angler sport fishing license number and printed name.* Before a charter vessel fishing trip begins, record the first and last name of each paying or non-paying charter vessel angler on board that will fish for halibut. For each angler required to be licensed, record the Alaska Sport Fishing License number for the current year, resident permanent license number, or disabled veteran license number. For youth anglers not required to be licensed, record the word “youth” in place of the license number.


(*7*) *Number of halibut retained.* For each charter vessel angler, record the total number of non-GAF halibut caught and kept.


(*8*) *Number of GAF retained.* For each charter vessel angler, record the total number of GAF kept.


(*9*) *Guide signature.* The charter vessel guide acknowledges that the recorded information is correct by signing the logbook data sheet.


(*10*) *Angler signature.* The charter vessel guide is responsible for ensuring that charter vessel anglers that retain halibut comply with the signature requirements at paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.


(iii) *GAF reporting requirements*—(A) *General.* (*1*) Upon retention of a GAF halibut, the charter vessel guide must immediately record on the GAF permit log (on the back of the GAF permit) the date that the fish was caught and retained and the total length of that fish as described in paragraphs (d)(4)(iii)(D)(*5*) and (*7*) of this section. If GAF halibut are retained on a charter vessel without a charter vessel guide on board, the charter vessel guide must also comply with the reporting requirements in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(A)(*5*) of this section.


(*2*) In addition to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, a GAF permit holder must use the NMFS-approved electronic reporting system on the Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov/* to submit a GAF landings report.


(*3*) A GAF permit holder must submit a GAF landings report by 11:59 p.m. (Alaska local time) on the last calendar day of a fishing trip for each day on which a charter vessel angler retained GAF authorized by the GAF permit held by that permit holder.


(*4*) If a GAF permit holder is unable to submit a GAF landings report due to hardware, software, or Internet failure for a period longer than the required reporting time, or a correction must be made to information already submitted, the GAF permit holder must contact NOAA Office of Law Enforcement, Juneau, AK, at 800-304-4846 (Select Option 1).


(*5*) If a GAF is retained on a charter vessel without a charter vessel guide on board, the charter vessel guide must immediately record in the ADF&G Saltwater Charter Logbook the GAF permit number under which GAF were caught and retained, and the number of GAF kept under the corresponding charter vessel angler's name.


(B) *Electronic Reporting of GAF.* A GAF permit holder must obtain, at his or her own expense, the technology to submit GAF landing reports to the NMFS-approved reporting system for GAF landings.


(C) *NMFS-Approved Electronic Reporting System.* The GAF permit holder agrees to the following terms (see paragraphs (d)(4)(iii)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section):


(*1*) To use any NMFS online service or reporting system only for authorized purposes;


(*2*) To safeguard the NMFS Person Identification Number and password to prevent their use by unauthorized persons; and


(*3*) To accept the responsibility of and acknowledge compliance with § 300.4(a) and (b), § 300.65(d), and § 300.66(p) and (q).


(D) *Information entered for each GAF caught and retained.* The GAF permit holder must enter the following information for each charter vessel fishing trip in which GAF were retained under the authorization of the permit holder's GAF permit into the NMFS-approved electronic reporting system (see paragraphs (d)(4)(iii)(D)(*1*) through (*9*) of this section) by 11:59 p.m. (Alaska local time) on the last day of a charter fishing trip in which a charter vessel angler retained GAF:


(*1*) Logbook number from the Alaska Department of Fish and Game Saltwater Sport Fishing Charter Trip Logbook.


(*2*) Vessel identification number for vessel on which GAF were caught and retained:


(*i*) State of Alaska issued boat registration (AK number), or


(*ii*) U.S. Coast Guard documentation number.


(*3*) GAF permit number under which GAF were caught and retained.


(*4*) Alaska Department of Fish and Game sport fishing guide license or registration number held by the charter vessel guide who certified the logbook data sheet.


(*5*) Date that GAF was caught and retained.


(*6*) Number of GAF caught and retained.


(*7*) Length of each GAF caught and retained. Halibut lengths are measured in inches in a straight line from the anterior-most tip of the lower jaw with the mouth closed to the extreme end of the middle of the tail.


(*8*) Community charter halibut permit only: Community or Port where the charter vessel fishing trip began (*i.e.*, where charter vessel anglers boarded the vessel).


(*9*) Community charter halibut permit only: Community or Port where the charter vessel fishing trip ended (*i.e.*, where charter vessel anglers or fish were offloaded from the vessel).


(E) *Properly reported landing.* (*1*) The GAF permit holder is responsible for ensuring that all GAF harvested on board a vessel are debited from the GAF permit holder's account under which the GAF were retained.


(*2*) A GAF landing confirmation number issued by the NMFS-approved electronic reporting system and recorded by the GAF permit holder on the GAF permit log used to record the dates and lengths of retained GAF, as required in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, constitutes confirmation that the GAF permit holder's GAF landing is properly reported and the GAF permit holder's account is properly debited.


(*3*) Instructions for correcting a submitted GAF landing electronic report are at (d)(4)(iii)(A)(*4*) of this section.


(5) *Carcass retention requirement for size-restricted halibut.* If a size-restricted halibut is filleted on board the charter vessel, the entire carcass, with head and tail connected as a single piece, must be retained on board the charter vessel on which it was caught until all fillets are offloaded.




(6) If a charter vessel angler catches and retains halibut, and that halibut is on board a fishing vessel with halibut caught and retained by persons who are not charter vessel anglers, then the daily bag limit, possession limit, size limit, and carcass retention regulations applicable to charter vessel anglers shall apply to all halibut on board the fishing vessel.








(e) The Local Area Management Plan (LAMP) for Sitka Sound provides guidelines for participation in the halibut fishery in Sitka Sound.


(1) For purposes of this section, Sitka Sound means (See Figure 1 to subpart E):


(i) With respect to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, that part of the Commission regulatory area 2C that is enclosed on the north and east:


(A) By a line from Kruzof Island at 57°20′30″ N. lat., 135°45′10″ W. long. to Chichagof Island at 57°22′03″ N. lat., 135°43′00″ W. long., and


(B) By a line from Chichagof Island at 57°22′35″ N. lat., 135°41′18″ W. long. to Baranof Island at 57°22′17″ N. lat., 135°40′57″ W. long.; and


(C) That is enclosed on the south and west by a line from Cape Edgecumbe at 56°59′54″ N. lat., 135°51′27″ W. long. to Vasilief Rock at 56°48′56″ N. lat., 135°32′30″ W. long., and


(D) To the green day marker in Dorothy Narrows at 56°49′17″ N. lat., 135°22′45″ W. long. to Baranof Island at 56°49′17″ N. lat., 135°22′36″ W. long.


(ii) With respect to paragraphs (e)(3), (e)(4), and (e)(5) of this section, that part of the Commission Regulatory Area 2C that is enclosed on the north and east:


(A) By a line from Kruzof Island at 57°20′30″ N. lat., 135°45′10″ W. long. to Chichagof Island at 57°22′03″ N. lat., 135°43′00″ W. long., and


(B) A line from Chichagof Island at 57°22′35″ N. lat., 135°41′18″ W. long. to Baranof Island at 57°22′17″ N. lat., 135°40′57″ W. lat.; and


(C) That is enclosed on the south and west by a line from Sitka Point at 56°59′23″ N. lat., 135°49′34″ W. long., to Hanus Point at 56°51′55″ N. lat., 135°30′30″ W. long.,


(D) To the green day marker in Dorothy Narrows at 56°49′17″ N. lat., 135°22′45″ W. long. to Baranof Island at 56°49′17″ N. lat., 135°22′36″ W. long.


(2) A person using a vessel greater than 35 ft (10.7 m) in overall length, as defined at 50 CFR 300.61, is prohibited from fishing for IFQ halibut with setline gear, as defined at 50 CFR 300.61, within Sitka Sound as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.


(3) A person using a vessel less than or equal to 35 ft (10.7 m) in overall length, as defined at 50 CFR 300.61:


(i) Is prohibited from fishing for IFQ halibut with setline gear within Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, from June 1 through August 31; and


(ii) Is prohibited, during the remainder of the designated IFQ season, from retaining more than 2,000 lb (0.91 mt) of IFQ halibut within Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, per IFQ fishing trip, as defined in 50 CFR 300.61.


(4) No charter vessel shall engage in sport fishing, as defined at § 300.61, for halibut within Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, from June 1 through August 31.


(i) No charter vessel shall retain halibut caught while engaged in sport fishing, as defined at § 300.61, for other species, within Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, from June 1 through August 31.


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(4)(i) of this section, halibut harvested outside Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, may be retained onboard a charter vessel engaged in sport fishing, as defined in § 300.61, for other species within Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, from June 1 through August 31. 


(5) Setline gear may not be used in a 4 nm radius extending south from Low Island at 57°00.70′ N. lat., 135°36.57′ W. long. within Sitka Sound, as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, from June 1 through August 31.


(f) Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve. (1) For purposes of this paragraph (f), the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve means an area totaling 2.5 square nm off Cape Edgecumbe, defined by straight lines connecting the following points in a counterclockwise manner:


(2) No person shall engage in commercial, sport or subsistence fishing, as defined at § 300.61, for halibut within the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve.


(3) No person shall anchor a vessel within the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve if halibut is on board.


(g) *Subsistence fishing in and off Alaska.* No person shall engage in subsistence fishing for halibut unless that person meets the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3) of this section.


(1) A person is eligible to harvest subsistence halibut if he or she is a rural resident of a community with customary and traditional uses of halibut listed in the following table:


(2) A person is eligible to harvest subsistence halibut if he or she is a member of an Alaska Native tribe with customary and traditional uses of halibut listed in the following table:


(3) A person is eligible to harvest subsistence halibut if he or she is a rural resident in one of the rural areas of Alaska described as follows:


(i) Southeast Alaska east of 141° W. long., except for the land areas of the Ketchikan Gateway Borough as described at paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, the land areas of the City and Borough of Juneau, and the Ketchikan and Juneau non-subsistence marine waters areas as defined in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (h)(3)(ii) of this section (see figures 2 and 3 to this subpart E).


(ii) The Alaska Peninsula, Aleutian Islands, Kodiak Island Archipelago, and the area south of the northern boundary of the Bristol Bay Borough and south of 58°39.2′ N. lat. (see figures 5, 6, and 7 to this subpart E).


(iii) Nelson, Nunivak, and Saint Lawrence Islands (see figure 6 to this subpart E).


(iv) All other areas of Alaska within ten statute miles of mean high water on the Bering Sea and Pacific Ocean coasts, south of Cape Espenberg, including along the Kuskokwim River to Bethel, and that are not specified as non-rural land or water areas as defined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section (see figures 4, 5, 6, and 7 to this subpart E).


(4) Non-rural areas consist of the non-subsistence marine waters areas defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section and the land areas of the following cities and boroughs for purposes of the subsistence fishery for Pacific halibut in waters in and off Alaska:


(i) The Ketchikan Gateway Borough on May 18, 2008. This area encompasses all those islands bounded on the east, north, and west by Behm Canal, Behm Narrows, and Clarence Strait to its junction with Nichols Passage, and on the south by Nichols and Revillagigedo Channel to its junction with Behm Canal. The designated boundaries extend to the center line of Behm Canal, Behm Narrows, Clarence Strait, Nichols Passage, and Revillagigedo Channel, and include all the area of Revillagigedo, Gravina, Pennock, Betton, Grant and other Clover Passage and Naha Bay Islands, Hassler, Gedney, Black, Smeaton, Manzanita, Rudyerd, and Bold Islands, and all other offshore and adjacent islands and inlets thereto (see figure 2 to this subpart E).


(ii) The City and Borough of Juneau (see figure 3 to this subpart E).


(iii) The Greater Anchorage Area Borough (see figures 4 and 5 to this subpart E).


(iv) The Matanuska-Susitna Borough (see figure 5 to this subpart E).


(v) The Kenai Peninsula Borough excluding the area of the Seldovia Census Designated Place, the area south and west of that place, and the area south and west of a line that runs from 59°27.5′ N. lat., 151°31.7′ W. long. to 59°12.5′ N. lat., 151°18.5′ W. long (see figure 5 to this subpart E).


(vi) The City of Valdez (see figures 4 and 5 to this subpart E).


(h) *Limitations on subsistence fishing.* Subsistence fishing for halibut may be conducted only by persons who qualify for such fishing pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section and who hold a valid subsistence halibut registration certificate in that person's name issued by NMFS pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section, provided that such fishing is consistent with the following limitations.


(1) Subsistence fishing is limited to setline gear and hand-held gear, including longline, handline, rod and reel, spear, jig and hand-troll gear.


(i) Subsistence fishing gear set or retrieved from a vessel while engaged in subsistence fishing for halibut must not have more than the allowable number of hooks per vessel, or per person registered in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section and aboard the vessel, whichever is less, according to the regulatory area and permit type indicated in the following table:


(ii) All setline gear marker buoys carried on board or used by any vessel regulated under this section shall be marked with the following: first initial, last name, and address (street, city, and state), followed by the letter “S” to indicate that it is used to harvest subsistence halibut.


(iii) Markings on setline marker buoys shall be in characters at least 4 inches (10.16 cm) in height and 0.5 inch (1.27 cm) in width in a contrasting color visible above the water line and shall be maintained so the markings are clearly visible.


(2) The retention of subsistence halibut is limited per person eligible to conduct subsistence fishing for halibut and onboard the vessel according to the following table:


(3) Subsistence fishing may be conducted in any waters in and off Alaska except in the four non-subsistence marine waters areas defined as follows:


(i) *Ketchikan non-subsistence marine waters area in Commission regulatory area 2C* (see Figure 2 to subpart E) is defined as those waters between a line from Caamano Point at 55°29.90′ N. lat., 131°58.25′ W. long. to Point Higgins at 55°27.42′ N. lat., 131°50.00′ W. long. and a point at 55°11.78′ N. lat., 131°05.13′ W. long., located on Point Sykes to a point at 55°12.22′ N. lat., 131°05.70′ W. long., located one-half mile northwest of Point Sykes to Point Alava at 55°11.54′ N. lat., 131°11.00′ W. long. and within one mile of the mainland and the Gravina and Revillagigedo Island shorelines, including within one mile of the Cleveland Peninsula shoreline and east of the longitude of Niblack Point at 132°07.23′ W. long., and north of the latitude of the southernmost tip of Mary Island at 55°02.66′ N. lat.;


(ii) *Juneau non-subsistence marine waters area in Commission regulatory area 2C* (see Figure 3 to subpart E) is defined as those waters of Stephens Passage and contiguous waters north of the latitude of Midway Island Light (57°50.21′ N. lat.), including the waters of Taku Inlet, Port Snettisham, Saginaw Channel, and Favorite Channel, and those waters of Lynn Canal and contiguous waters south of the latitude of the northernmost entrance of Berners Bay (58°43.07′ N. lat.), including the waters of Berners Bay and Echo Cove, and those waters of Chatham Strait and contiguous waters north of the latitude of Point Marsden (58°03.42′ N. lat.), and east of a line from Point Couverden at 58°11.38′ N. lat., 135°03.40′ W. long., to Point Augusta at 58°02.38′ N. lat., 134°57.11′ W. long.;


(iii) *The Anchorage-Matsu-Kenai non-subsistence marine waters area in Commission Regulatory Area 3A* (see figures 4, 5, 6, and 7 to this subpart E) is defined as:


(A) All waters of Cook Inlet north of a line extending from the westernmost point of Hesketh Island at 59°30.40′ N. lat., except those waters within mean lower low tide from a point one mile south of the southern edge of the Chuitna River (61°05.00′ N. lat., 151°01.00′ W. long.) south to the easternmost tip of Granite Point (61°01.00′ N. lat., 151°23.00′ W. long.) (Tyonek subdistrict); and


(B) All waters of Alaska south of 59°30.40′ N. lat. on the western shore of Cook Inlet to Cape Douglas (58°51.10′ N. lat.) and in the east to Cape Fairfield (148°50.25′ W. long.), except those waters of Alaska west of a line from the easternmost point of Jakolof Bay (151°31.90′ W. long.), and following the shore to a line extending south from the easternmost point of Rocky Bay (151°18.41′ W. long.); and


(iv) *Valdez non-subsistence marine waters area in Commission regulatory area 3A* (see figures 4 and 5 to this subpart E) is defined as the waters of Port Valdez and Valdez Arm located north of 61°01.38′ N. lat., and east of 146°43.80′ W. long.


(4) Waters in and off Alaska that are not specifically identified as non-subsistence marine waters areas in paragraph (h)(3) of this section are rural for purposes of subsistence fishing for halibut. Subsistence fishing may be conducted in any rural area by any person with a valid subsistence halibut registration certificate in his or her name issued by NMFS under paragraph (i) of this section, except that:


(i) A person who is not a rural resident but who is a member of an Alaska Native tribe that is located in a rural area and that is listed in the table in paragraph (g)(2) of this section is limited to conducting subsistence fishing for halibut only in his or her area of tribal membership.


(ii) A person who is a resident outside the State of Alaska but who is a member of an Alaska Native tribe that is located in a rural area and that is listed in the table in paragraph (g)(2) of this section is limited to conducting subsistence fishing for halibut only in his or her area of tribal membership.


(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (h)(4), “area of tribal membership” means rural areas of the Commission regulatory area under which the Organized Tribal Entity is listed in the tables set out in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, or the Bering Sea closed area adjacent to the rural area in which the Alaska Native tribal headquarters is located.


(i) *Subsistence registration.* A person must register as a subsistence halibut fisher and possess a valid subsistence halibut registration certificate in his or her name issued by NMFS before he or she begins subsistence fishing for halibut in waters in and off Alaska.


(1) A subsistence halibut registration certificate will be issued to any person who registers according to paragraph (i)(2) of this section and who is qualified to conduct subsistence fishing for halibut according to paragraph (g) of this section. The Alaska Region, NMFS, may enter into cooperative agreements with Alaska Native tribal governments or their representative organizations for purposes of identifying persons qualified to conduct subsistence fishing for halibut according to paragraph (g) of this section.


(2) *Registration.* To register as a subsistence halibut fisherman, a person may request a cooperating Alaska Native tribal government or other entity designated by NMFS to submit an application on his or her behalf to the Alaska Region, NMFS. Alternatively, a person may apply by submitting a completed application to the Alaska Region, NMFS. Application forms are available on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*, or by contacting NMFS at 800-304-4846, Option 2. NMFS will process a SHARC Application for an Alaska Native Tribal Member or a SHARC Application for a Rural Resident provided that an application is completed, with all applicable fields accurately filled-in, and all required additional documentation is submitted. Initial applications for a SHARC must be signed and mailed or faxed to NMFS (see instructions on form). Renewals may be submitted electronically, mailed, or faxed.


(i) *Non-electronic submittal.* The applicant must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete. The applicant must submit the paper application as indicated on the application.


(ii) *Electronic submittal.* An individual can submit a SHARC renewal on-line using an application available at the Alaska Region website. By using the SHARC number and date of birth, and by submitting the application form, the applicant certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete.


(3) *Expiration of registration.* Each subsistence halibut registration certificate will be valid only for the period of time specified on the certificate. A person eligible to harvest subsistence halibut under paragraph (g) of this section may renew his or her registration certificate that is expired or will expire within 3 months by following the procedures described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. A subsistence halibut registration certificate will expire:


(i) 2 years from the date of its issuance to a person eligible to harvest subsistence halibut under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and


(ii) 4 years from the date of its issuance to a person eligible to harvest subsistence halibut under paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(j) *Community Harvest Permit (CHP).* An Area 2C or Area 3A community or Alaska Native tribe listed in paragraphs (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section may apply for a CHP, which allows a community or Alaska Native tribe to appoint one or more individuals from its respective community or Alaska Native tribe to harvest subsistence halibut from a single vessel under reduced gear and harvest restrictions. The CHP consists of a harvest log and up to five laminated permit cards. A CHP is a permit subject to regulation under § 679.4(a) of this title.


(1) *Qualifications.* (i) NMFS may issue a CHP to any community or Alaska Native tribe that applies according to paragraph (j)(2) of this section and that is qualified to conduct subsistence fishing for halibut according to paragraph (g) of this section.


(ii) NMFS will issue a CHP to a community in Area 2C or Area 3A only if:


(A) The applying community is listed as eligible in Area 2C or Area 3A according to paragraph (g)(1) of this section; and


(B) No Alaska Native tribe listed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section exists in that community.


(iii) NMFS will issue a CHP to an Alaska Native tribe in Area 2C or Area 3A only if the applying tribe is listed as eligible in Area 2C or Area 3A according to paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(iv) Eligible communities or Alaska Native tribes may appoint only one CHP Coordinator per community or tribe.


(2) *Application.* A community or Alaska Native tribe may apply for a CHP by submitting an application to the Alaska Region, NMFS. Applications must be mailed to: Restricted Access Management Program, NMFS, Alaska Region, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668. A complete application must include:


(i) The name of the community or Alaska Native tribe requesting the CHP;


(ii) The full name of the person who is designated as the CHP Coordinator for each community or Alaska Native tribe, the designated CHP Coordinator's mailing address (number and street, city, state, and zip code), community of residence (the rural community or residence from paragraph (g)(1) of this section) or the Alaska Native tribe if applicable (as indicated in paragraph (g)(2) of this section), and the daytime telephone number; and


(iii) Any previously issued CHP harvest logs.


(3) *Restrictions.* Subsistence fishing for halibut under a CHP shall be valid only:


(i) In Area 2C or Area 3A, except that a CHP may not be used:


(A) Within Sitka Sound as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section (see Figure 1 to this subpart E); or


(B) Within the Ketchikan, Juneau, Anchorage-Matsu-Kenai, and Valdez non-subsistence marine waters areas as defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section (see figures 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 to this subpart E).


(ii) To persons in possession of a valid subsistence halibut registration certificate issued in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section for the same community or Alaska Native tribe listed on the CHP;


(iii) On a single vessel on which a CHP card is present; and


(iv) If subsistence fishing gear set or retrieved from a vessel on which the CHP card is present does not exceed the restrictions of paragraph (h) of this section.


(4) *Expiration of permit.* Each CHP will be valid only for the period of time specified on the permit. A CHP will expire one year from the date of issuance to a community or Alaska Native tribe eligible to harvest halibut under paragraph (g) of this section. A community or Alaska Native tribe eligible to harvest subsistence halibut under paragraph (g) of this section may renew its CHP that is expired or will expire within three months by following the procedures described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.


(5) *Duties of the CHP coordinator.* Each CHP Coordinator must ensure:


(i) The designated harvesters who may fish under the CHP are identified on the Community Harvest Permit harvest log when the CHP is issued to the designated harvesters;


(ii) The CHP remains in the possession of the CHP Coordinator or other tribal or government authority when not in use and is issued to the designated harvesters when necessary; and


(iii) All required recordkeeping and data reporting of subsistence harvests under the CHP are performed.


(6) *Harvest log submission.* Each Community Harvest Permit harvest log must be submitted to NMFS on or before the date of expiration by facsimile or mail. Harvest logs must be mailed to RAM at the address given in paragraph (j)(2) of this section or faxed to 907-586-7354. The log must provide information on:


(i) The subsistence fisher's identity including his or her full name, subsistence halibut registration certificate number, date of birth, mailing address (number and street, city, state, and zip code), community of residence, daytime phone number, and tribal identity (if appropriate); and


(ii) The subsistence halibut harvest including whether the participant fished for subsistence halibut during the period specified on the permit, and if so, the date harvest occurred, the number and weight (in pounds) of halibut harvested, the type of gear and number of hooks used, the Commission regulatory area and local water body from which the halibut were harvested, and the number of lingcod and rockfish caught while subsistence fishing for halibut.


(k) *Ceremonial Permit or Educational Permit.* An Area 2C or Area 3A Alaska Native tribe that is listed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section may apply for a Ceremonial or Educational Permit, allowing the tribe to harvest up to 25 halibut per permit issued. The Ceremonial and Educational Permits each consist of a harvest log and a single laminated permit card. Ceremonial and Educational Permits are permits subject to regulation under § 679.4(a) of this title.


(1) *Qualifications.* (i) NMFS may issue a Ceremonial or Educational Permit to any Alaska Native tribe that completes an application according to paragraph (k)(2) of this section and that is qualified to conduct subsistence fishing for halibut according to paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(ii) Eligible Alaska Native tribes may appoint only one Ceremonial Permit Coordinator per tribe.


(iii) Eligible educational programs may appoint only one authorized Instructor per Educational Permit.


(2) *Application.* An Alaska Native tribe may apply for a Ceremonial or Educational Permit by submitting an application to the Alaska Region, NMFS. Applications must be mailed to: Restricted Access Management Program, NMFS, Alaska Region, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668.


(i) A complete application must include:


(A) The name of the Alaska Native tribe requesting the Ceremonial or Educational Permit;


(B) The name of the person designated as the Ceremonial Permit Coordinator for each Alaska Native tribe or the name of the person designated as the Instructor for an Educational Permit, the Ceremonial Permit Coordinator or Instructor's mailing address (number and street, city, state, and zip code), and the daytime telephone number;


(C) Any previously issued Ceremonial Permit harvest logs from any expired Ceremonial Permit if applying for a Ceremonial Permit; and


(D) Any previously issued Educational Permit harvest logs from any expired Educational Permit if applying for an Educational Permit.


(ii) NMFS will issue a Ceremonial Permit for the harvest of halibut associated with traditional cultural events only if the application:


(A) Indicates the occasion of cultural or ceremonial significance; and


(B) Identifies the person designated by the eligible Alaska Native tribe as the Ceremonial Permit Coordinator.


(iii) NMFS will issue an Educational Permit only if the application:


(A) Includes the name and address of the educational institution or organization;


(B) Includes the instructor's name;


(C) Demonstrates the enrollment of qualified students;


(D) Describes minimum attendance requirements of the educational program; and


(E) Describes standards for the successful completion of the educational program.


(3) *Restrictions.* Subsistence fishing for halibut under Ceremonial or Educational Permits shall be valid only:


(i) In Area 3A, except:


(A) In the Anchorage-Matsu-Kenai non-subsistence marine waters area defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section (see figures 4, 5, 6, and 7 to this subpart E), only the following tribes may use a Ceremonial or Educational permit:


(*1*) Kenaitze Indian Tribe;


(*2*) Seldovia Village Tribe;


(*3*) Ninilchik Village;


(*4*) Native Village of Port Graham;


(*5*) Native Village of Nanwalek; and


(*6*) Village of Salamatoff.


(B) In the Valdez non-subsistence marine waters area defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section (see figures 4 and 5 to this subpart E), only the Native Village of Tatitlek may use a Ceremonial or Educational permit.


(ii) In Area 2C, except:


(A) In the Ketchikan non-subsistence marine waters area defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section (see figure 2 to this subpart E), only the following tribes may use a Ceremonial or Educational permit:


(*1*) Central Council of Tlingit/Haida Indians;


(*2*) Ketchikan Indian Corporation; and


(*3*) Organized Village of Saxman;


(B) In the Juneau non-subsistence marine waters area defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section (see figure 3 to this subpart E), only the following tribes may use a Ceremonial or Educational permit:


(*1*) Central Council of Tlingit/Haida Indians;


(*2*) Douglas Indian Association; and


(*3*) Aukquan Traditional Council.


(C) A Ceremonial Permit may not be used within Sitka Sound from June 1 through August 31;


(iii) On a single vessel on which the Ceremonial or Educational Permit card is present;


(iv) On the vessel on which the instructor is present for Educational Permits;


(v) To persons in possession of a valid subsistence halibut registration certificate issued in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section for the same Alaska Native tribe listed on the Ceremonial or Educational Permit, except that students enrolled in an educational program may fish under an Educational Permit without a subsistence halibut registration certificate; and


(vi) If subsistence fishing gear set or retrieved from a vessel on which the Ceremonial or Educational Permit card is present does not exceed the restrictions of paragraph (h) of this section.


(4) *Expiration of permits.* Each Ceremonial or Educational Permit will be valid only for the period of time specified on the permit. Ceremonial and Educational Permits will expire 30 days from the date of issuance to an Alaska Native tribe eligible to harvest halibut under paragraph (g)(2) of this section. A tribe eligible to harvest subsistence halibut under paragraph (g)(2) of this section may apply for additional Ceremonial or Educational Permits at any time.


(5) *Duties of Ceremonial Permit Coordinators and Instructors.* Each Ceremonial Permit Coordinator or Instructor must ensure:


(i) The designated harvesters or students who may fish under the Ceremonial or Educational Permit are identified on the Ceremonial/Educational Permit harvest log when the permit is used;


(ii) The Ceremonial Permit remains in the possession of the Ceremonial Permit Coordinator or other tribal authority when not in use and is issued to designated harvesters when necessary; and


(iii) All required recordkeeping and data reporting of subsistence harvests under the Ceremonial or Educational Permit are performed.


(6) *Harvest log submission.* Submission of a Ceremonial or Educational Permit log shall be required upon the expiration of each permit and must be received by Restricted Access Management within 15 days of the expiration by facsimile or mail. Harvest logs must be mailed to RAM at the address given in paragraph (k)(2) of this section or faxed to 907-586-7354. The log must provide information on:


(i) The subsistence fisher's identity including his or her full name, subsistence halibut registration certificate number if applicable (students do not need a SHARC), date of birth, mailing address (number and street, city, state, and zip code), community of residence, daytime phone number, and tribal identity;


(ii) The subsistence halibut harvest including whether the participant fished for subsistence halibut during the period indicated on the permit, and if so, the date when harvest occurred, the number and weight (in pounds) of halibut harvested, the type of gear and number of hooks used, the Commission regulatory area and local water body from which the halibut were harvested, and the number of lingcod and rockfish caught while subsistence fishing for halibut.


(l) *Appeals.* If Restricted Access Management (RAM) determines that an application is deficient, it will prepare and send an Initial Administrative Determination (IAD) to the applicant. The IAD will indicate the deficiencies in the application or any additional provided information. An applicant who receives an IAD may appeal RAM's findings pursuant to § 679.43 of this title.



---

[N] [68 FR 18156, Apr. 15, 2003]


