# ยง 2520.104-22   Exemption from reporting and disclosure requirements for apprenticeship and training plans.

(a) An employee welfare benefit plan that provides exclusively apprenticeship training benefits or other training benefits or that provides exclusively apprenticeship and training benefits shall not be required to meet any requirement of part 1 of the Act, provided that the administrator of such plan:


(1) Has filed with the Secretary the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section;


(2) Takes steps reasonably designed to ensure that the information required to be contained in such notice is disclosed to employees of employers contributing to the plan who may be eligible to enroll in any course of study sponsored or established by the plan; and


(3) Makes such notice available to such employees upon request.


(b) The notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall contain accurate information concerning:


(1) The name of the plan;


(2) The Employer Identification Number (EIN) of the plan sponsor;


(3) The name of the plan administrator;


(4) The name and location of an office or person from whom an interested individual can obtain:


(i) A description of any existing or anticipated future course of study sponsored or established by the plan, including any prerequisites for enrolling in such course; and


(ii) A description of the procedure by which to enroll in such course. 


(c) The notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed with the Secretary electronically in accordance with the instructions published by the Department.



---

[N] [45 FR 15529, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 27933, Apr. 25, 1980; 54 FR 8629, Mar. 1, 1989; 68 FR 16400, Apr. 3, 2003; 84 FR 27955, June 17, 2019] 




