# § 425.507   Incorporating Promoting Interoperability requirements related to the Quality Payment Program for performance years beginning on or after January 1, 2025.

(a) For performance years beginning on or after January 1, 2025, unless otherwise excluded under paragraph (b) of this section, an ACO participant, ACO provider/supplier, and ACO professional that is a MIPS eligible clinician, Qualifying APM Participant (QP), or Partial Qualifying APM Participant (Partial QP) (each as defined at § 414.1305 of this chapter) must satisfy all of the following:


(1) Report the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category measures and requirements to MIPS according to 42 CFR part 414 subpart O at the individual, group, virtual group, or APM entity level.


(2) Earn a performance category score for the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category at the individual, group, virtual group, or APM entity level.


(b) An ACO participant, ACO provider/supplier, or ACO professional is excluded from the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with applicable policies that exclude or otherwise exempt eligible clinicians from reporting the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category as set forth in 42 CFR part 414 subpart O, provided however, that an ACO participant, ACO provider/supplier, or ACO professional cannot be excluded from the requirements specified in paragraph (a) solely on the basis of being a QP or Partial QP. Applicable exclusions may include:


(1) Low volume threshold as set forth at § 414.1310(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter.


(2) Eligible clinician as defined at § 414.1305 of this chapter who is not a MIPS eligible clinician as set forth in § 414.1310(b)(2) of this chapter.


(3) Reweighting of the MIPS Promoting Interoperability performance category to zero percent of the final score in accordance with applicable policies set forth at § 414.1380(c)(2) of this chapter.



---

[N] [88 FR 79546, Nov. 16, 2023]








