# § 165.1344   Regulated Navigation Area; Commencement Bay Nearshore/Tideflat Superfund Site, Commencement Bay, Tacoma, WA.

(a) *Regulated Areas.* The following area is a regulated navigation area (RNA): All waters within Dune Park downward to the Point Ruston Historic Ferry dock on Commencement Bay, WA, encompassed by a line connecting the following points beginning at 47°18′12.0″ N, 122°30′26.0″ W onshore, thence 240 feet to position 47°18′13.0″ N 122°30′22.0″ W offshore, thence 2,900 feet to position 47°17′52.0″ N, 122°29′53.0″ W offshore, thence 500 feet to position 47°17′49.0″ N 122°29′59.0″ W onshore. These coordinates are based on World Geodetic System (WGS 84).


(b) *Regulations.* In addition to the general RNA regulations in § 165.13, the following regulations apply to the RNA described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) Prohibited activities include those that would disturb the seabed, such as anchoring, dragging, trawling, spudding, or other activities that involve disrupting the integrity of the sediment caps installed in the designated regulated navigation area, pursuant to the remediation efforts of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other participants in the EPA Superfund Cleanup Site. Vessels may otherwise transit or navigate within this area without reservation.


(2) The prohibition described in this section does not apply to vessels or persons engaged in activities associated with remediation efforts in the Middle Waterway Superfund Sites, provided that the Captain of the Port (COTP) Puget Sound is given advance notice of those activities by the EPA.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0199, 87 FR 60271, Oct. 5, 2022]




