# § 1.6050Y-4   Information reporting by payors for reportable death benefits.

(a) *Requirement of reporting.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, every person that is a payor of reportable death benefits during any calendar year must file a separate information return for such calendar year with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for each reportable death benefits payment recipient in the form and manner prescribed by the IRS. The return must include the following information with respect to the reportable death benefits payment recipient to which the return relates:


(1) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the payor;


(2) The name, address, and TIN of the reportable death benefits payment recipient;


(3) The date of the payment;


(4) The gross amount of reportable death benefits paid to the reportable death benefits payment recipient during the taxable year;


(5) The payor's estimate of investment in the contract with respect to the buyer, limited to the payor's estimate of the buyer's investment in the contract with respect to the interest for which the reportable death benefits payment recipient was paid; and


(6) Any other information that is required by the form or its instructions.


(b) *Time and place for filing.* Returns required to be made under this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center designated in the instructions for the form on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the year following the calendar year in which the payment of reportable death benefits was made. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(5) for transition rules.


(c) *Requirement of and time for furnishing statements*—(1) *Requirement of furnishing statement.* Every person required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section must furnish to each reportable death benefits payment recipient whose name is required to be set forth in that return a written statement showing the information required by paragraph (a) of this section with respect to that reportable death benefits payment recipient and the name, address, and phone number of the information contact of the payor. This contact information must provide direct access to a person that can answer questions about the statement.


(2) *Time for furnishing statement.* Each statement required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be furnished to any reportable death benefits payment recipient must be furnished on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the payment of reportable death benefits was made. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(4) for transition rules.


(d) *Notice of rescission of a reportable policy sale.* Any person that has filed a return required by section 6050Y(c) and this section with respect to a payment of reportable death benefits must file a corrected return within 15 calendar days of recovering any portion of the reportable death benefits payment from the reportable death benefits payment recipient as a result of the rescission of the reportable policy sale. Any person that has furnished a written statement under section 6050Y(c)(2) and this section with respect to a payment of reportable death benefits must furnish the recipient of that statement with a corrected statement within 15 calendar days of recovering any portion of the reportable death benefits payment from the reportable death benefits payment recipient as a result of the rescission of the reportable policy sale.


(e) *Exceptions to requirement to file.* A payor is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a payment of reportable death benefits if paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section applies.


(1) Except as provided in this paragraph (e)(1), the payor obtains documentation in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii) upon which it may rely to treat the reportable death benefits payment recipient as a foreign beneficial owner of the reportable death benefits, applying in such case the provisions of § 1.1441-1 by substituting the term “payor” for the term “withholding agent” and without regard to the fact that the provisions apply only to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. A payor may also obtain from a partnership or trust that is a reportable death benefits recipient, in addition to documentation establishing the entity's foreign status, a written certification from the entity that no beneficial owner of any portion of the reportable death benefits payment is a United States person. In such a case, a payor may rely upon the written certification to treat the partnership or trust as a foreign beneficial owner for purposes of this paragraph (e)(1) provided that the payor does not have actual knowledge that a United States person is the beneficial owner of all or a portion of the reportable death benefits payment. See § 1.1441-1(c)(6)(ii) for the definition of beneficial owner that applies for purposes of this paragraph (e)(1). Other due diligence or reporting requirements may, however, apply to a payor that relies on the exception set forth in this paragraph (e)(1). See § 1.1441-5(c) and (e) (determination of payees of foreign partnerships and certain foreign trusts for amounts subject to withholding under § 1.1441-2(a)) and § 1.1461-1(b) and (c) (amounts subject to reporting for chapter 3 purposes).


(2) The buyer obtained the life insurance contract (or interest therein) under which reportable death benefits are paid in a reportable policy sale to which the exception to reporting described in § 1.6050Y-3(f)(2) applies.


(3) The payor never received, and has no knowledge of any issuer having received, an RPSS with respect to the interest in a life insurance contract with respect to which the reportable death benefits are paid.


(f) *Cross-reference to penalty provisions*—(1) *Failure to file correct information return.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to file timely a correct information return required under section 6050Y(c)(1) and this section, see section 6721 and § 301.6721-1 of this chapter. See section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.


(2) *Failure to furnish correct statement.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to furnish timely a correct statement to identified persons under section 6050Y(c)(2) and this section, see section 6722 and § 301.6722-1 of this chapter. See section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9879, 84 FR 58488, Oct. 31, 2019]






