# § 1003.206   Program administration costs.

ICDBG funds may be used for the payment of reasonable administrative costs and carrying charges related to the planning and execution of community development activities assisted in whole or in part with funds provided under this part. No more than 20 percent of the sum of any grant plus program income received shall be expended for activities described in this section and in § 1003.205—Eligible planning, urban environmental design and policy-planning-management capacity building activities. This does not include staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out activities eligible under §§ 1003.201 through 1003.204, since those costs are eligible as part of such activities. In addition, technical assistance costs associated with developing the capacity to undertake a specific funded activity are also not considered program administration costs. These costs must not, however, exceed 10% of the total grant award. 


(a) *General management, oversight and coordination.* Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not necessarily limited to, necessary expenditures for the following: 


(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the grantee's staff, the staff of local public agencies, or other staff engaged in program administration. In charging costs to this category the grantee may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the program of each person whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program involve program administration assignments, or the pro rata share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes any program administration assignments. The grantee may use only one of these methods during the grant period. Program administration includes the following types of assignments: 


(i) Providing tribal officials and citizens with information about the program; 


(ii) Preparing program budgets and schedules, and amendments thereto; 


(iii) Developing systems for assuring compliance with program requirements; 


(iv) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with subrecipients and contractors to carry out program activities; 


(v) Monitoring program activities for progress and compliance with program requirements; 


(vi) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD; 


(vii) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings; 


(viii) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and 


(ix) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraph (a)(1) (i) through (viii) of this section. 


(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program; 


(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services; and


(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, furnishings, or other personal property (or the payment of depreciation for such items in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E , insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space.)


(b) *Public information.* The provisions of information and other resources to residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of activities being assisted with ICDBG funds. 


(c) *Indirect costs.* Indirect costs may be charged to the ICDBG program under a cost allocation plan prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E. 


(d) *Submission of applications for Federal programs.* Preparation of documents required for submission to HUD to receive funds under the ICDBG program. In addition, ICDBG funds may be used to prepare applications for other Federal programs where the grantee determines that such activities are necessary or appropriate to achieve its community development objectives. 



---

[N] [62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75944, Dec. 7, 2015]




