# § 63.428   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) The initial notifications required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted by 1 year after an affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by December 16, 1996, whichever is later. Affected sources that are major sources on December 16, 1996, and plan to be area sources by December 15, 1997, shall include in this notification a brief, non-binding description of and schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.


(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records in either hardcopy or electronic form of the test results for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility for at least 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records for at least 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section.


(1) Annual certification testing performed under § 63.425(e) and railcar bubble leak testing performed under § 63.425(i); and


(2) Continuous performance testing performed at any time at that facility under § 63.425(f), (g), and (h).


(3) The documentation file shall be kept up-to-date for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility. The documentation for each test shall include, as a minimum, the following information:


(i) Name of test: Annual Certification Test—Method 27 (§ 63.425(e)(1)); Annual Certification Test—Internal Vapor Valve (§ 63.425(e)(2)); Leak Detection Test (§ 63.425(f)); Nitrogen Pressure Decay Field Test (§ 63.425(g)); Continuous Performance Pressure Decay Test (§ 63.425(h)); or Railcar Bubble Leak Test Procedure (§ 63.425(i)).


(ii) Cargo tank owner's name and address.


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iv) Test location and date.


(v) Tester name and signature.


(vi) Witnessing inspector, if any: Name, signature, and affiliation.


(vii) Vapor tightness repair: Nature of repair work and when performed in relation to vapor tightness testing.


(viii) Test results: tank or compartment capacity; test pressure; pressure or vacuum change, mm of water; time period of test; number of leaks found with instrument; and leak definition.


(4) Records of each instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502(e)(1) or § 60.502a(e)(1) of this chapter, as applicable, was not provided or available in the terminal's records. These records shall include, at a minimum:


(i) Cargo tank owner and address.


(ii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.


(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.


(5) Records of each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 63.421, not equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system. These records shall include, at a minimum:


(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped or improperly connected.


(ii) Type of deviation (*e.g.,* not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(c) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(1) shall:


(1) Keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the continuous monitoring data required under § 63.427(a). This record shall indicate the time intervals during which loadings of gasoline cargo tanks have occurred or, alternatively, shall record the operating parameter data only during such loadings. The date and time of day shall also be indicated at reasonable intervals on this record.


(2) Record and report simultaneously with the notification of compliance status required under § 63.9(h):


(i) All data and calculations, engineering assessments, and manufacturer's recommendations used in determining the operating parameter value under § 63.425(b); and


(ii) The following information when using a flare under provisions of § 63.11(b) to comply with § 63.422(b):


(A) Flare design (*i.e.,* steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); and


(B) All visible emissions readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required under § 63.425(b).


(3) If an owner or operator requests approval to use a vapor processing system or monitor an operating parameter other than those specified in § 63.427(a), the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application.


(4) Keep written procedures required under § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan as required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(d) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(2) shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of five years unless otherwise specified in this section:


(1) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.422(b)(2) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature as specified in § 60.502a(c)(1)(ii) of this chapter, for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.422(b)(2), maintain records, as applicable, of:


(i) The applicable operating or emission limit for the CMS. For combustion zone temperature operating limits, include the applicable date range the limit applies based on when the performance test was conducted.


(ii) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature measured by the temperature CPMS, each 5-minute average reading from the pressure CPMS, and each 3-hour rolling average total organic compounds (TOC) concentration (as propane) measured by the TOC CEMS.


(iii) For each deviation of the 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature operating limit, maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration (as propane), the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken.


(iv) For each period when there was a CMS outage or the CMS was out of control, the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).


(v) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check. For TOC CEMS, include the type of CEMS used (*i.e.,* flame ionization detector, nondispersive infrared analyzer) and an indication of whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration reported in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.


(vi) TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, also keep records of:


(A) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for the past 10 adsorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.


(B) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles used for the past 10 desorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.


(C) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for each adsorption cycle while using the alternative.


(D) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles for each desorption cycle while using the alternative.


(2) For each flare used to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.422(b)(2) and for each thermal oxidation system using the flare monitoring alternative as provided in § 60.502a(c)(1)(iii) of this chapter, maintain records of:


(i) The output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.670(b) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare for a minimum of 5 years. The record must identify the start and end time and date of each 15-minute block.


(ii) Visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.


(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, the record must identify the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, include separate records for each visible emissions observation performed.


(B) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours but visible emissions observations according to Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter were not conducted for the full 2-hour period, the record must include the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(iii) Each 15-minute block period during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) when liquid product is being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks for at least 15-minutes identifying the specific operating limit that was not met.


(iv) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for the thermal oxidation system vent gas or flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i), along with the date and start and end time for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the thermal oxidation system vent gas, flare vent gas, or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required supplemental gas flow rate (winter and summer, if applicable) and the actual monitored supplemental gas flow rate for the 15-minute block. Retain the supplemental gas flow rate records for a minimum of 5 years.


(v) The thermal oxidation system vent gas or flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If NHV_vg_ analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years. If you demonstrate your gas streams have consistent composition using the provisions in § 63.670(j)(6) as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter, retain records of the required minimum ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded and the actual ratio on a 15-minute block basis. If applicable, you must retain records of the required minimum gasoline loading rate as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and the actual gasoline loading rate on a 15-minute block basis for a minimum of 5 years.


(vi) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.


(vii) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g), (i), and (j) or in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and (viii) of this chapter as applicable. Note the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period.


(viii) An indication of whether “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” excludes periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded or if liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks according to the provisions in § 60.502a(c)(3)(i) of this chapter, records of all time periods when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”, and records of time periods when there were no “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”.


(ix) If you comply with the flare tip velocity operating limit using the one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in § 60.502a(c)(3)(ix) of this chapter, maintain records of the applicable one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment for as long as you use this compliance method.


(x) For each parameter monitored using a CMS, retain the records specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(x)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable:


(A) For each deviation, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.


(B) For each period when there is a CMS outage or the CMS is out of control, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.


(C) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check.


(3) Records of all 5-minute time periods during which liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks and records of all 5-minute time periods when there was no liquid product loaded into gasoline cargo tanks.


(4) Keep written procedures required under § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan as required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(e) Each owner or operator of storage vessels subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records as specified in § 60.115b of this chapter, except records shall be kept for at least 5 years. Additionally, for each storage vessel complying with the provisions in § 63.423(b)(2), keep records of each LEL monitoring event as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) Date and time of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.


(2) A description of the monitoring event (*e.g.,* monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2); re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt).


(3) Wind speed at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.


(4) The LEL meter manufacturer and model number used, as well as an indication of whether tubing was used during the LEL monitoring, and if so, the type and length of tubing used.


(5) Calibration checks conducted before and after making the measurements, including both the span check and instrumental offset. This includes the hydrocarbon used as the calibration gas, the Certificate of Analysis for the calibration gas(es), the results of the calibration check, and any corrective action for calibration checks that do not meet the required response.


(6) Location of the measurements and the location of the floating roof.


(7) Each measurement (taken at least once every 15 seconds). The records should indicate whether the recorded values were automatically corrected using the meter's programming. If the values were not automatically corrected, record both the raw (as the calibration gas) and corrected measurements, as well as the correction factor used.


(8) Each 5-minute rolling average reading.


(9) If the vapor concentration of the storage vessel was above 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minue rolling average basis, a description of whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service.


(f) Each owner or operator complying with the provisions of § 63.424 shall keep records of the information in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Each owner or operator complying with the provisions of § 63.424(b) shall record the following information in the logbook for each leak that is detected:


(i) The equipment type and identification number;


(ii) The nature of the leak (*i.e.,* vapor or liquid) and the method of detection (*i.e.,* sight, sound, or smell);


(iii) The date the leak was detected and the date of each attempt to repair the leak;


(iv) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak;


(v) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if the leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak;


(vi) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if the leak is not repaired within 15 days; and


(vii) The date of successful repair of the leak.


(2) Each owner or operator complying with the provisions of § 63.424(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter shall keep records of the following information:


(i) Types, identification numbers, and locations of all equipment in gasoline service.


(ii) For each leak inspection conducted under § 63.424(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter, keep the following records:


(A) An indication if the leak inspection was conducted under § 63.424(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.


(B) Leak determination method used for the leak inspection.


(iii) For leak inspections conducted with Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, keep the following additional records:


(A) Date of inspection.


(B) Inspector name.


(C) Monitoring instrument identification.


(D) Identification of all equipment surveyed and the instrument reading for each piece of equipment.


(E) Date and time of instrument calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.


(F) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.


(G) Instrument scale used.


(H) Results of the daily calibration drift assessment.


(iv) For leak inspections conducted with OGI, keep the records specified in section 12 of appendix K to part 60 of this chapter.


(v) For each leak that is detected during a leak inspection or by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties, record the following information:


(A) The equipment type and identification number.


(B) The date the leak was detected, the name of the person who found the leak, nature of the leak (*i.e.,* vapor or liquid) and the method of detection (*i.e.,* audio/visual/olfactory, Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, or OGI).


(C) The date of each attempt to repair the leak and the repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.


(D) The date of successful repair of the leak, the method of monitoring used to confirm the repair, and if Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter is used to confirm the repair, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60. If OGI is used to confirm the repair, keep video footage of the repair confirmation.


(E) For each repair delayed beyond 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak, record “Repair delayed”, the reason for the delay, and the expected date of successful repair. The owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be carried out in the 15-calendar day timeframe must sign the record.


(F) For each leak that is not repairable, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter at the time the leak is determined to be not repairable, a video captured by the OGI camera showing that emissions are still visible, or a signed record that the leak is still detectable via audio/visual/olfactory methods.


(g) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep the following records for each deviation of an emissions limitation (including operating limit), work practice standard, or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart.


(1) Date, start time, and duration of each deviation.


(2) List of the affected sources or equipment for each deviation, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(3) Actions taken to minimize emissions.


(h) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated authority or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.


(i) Records of each performance test or performance evaluation conducted and each notification and report submitted to the Administrator for at least 5 years. For each performance test, include an indication of whether liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded are excluded in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provision in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii) of this chapter. If complying with the alternative in § 63.427(f), for each performance test or performance evaluation conducted, include the pressure every 5 minutes while a gasoline cargo tank is being loaded and the highest instantaneous pressure that occurs during each loading.


(j) Prior to November 4, 2024, each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit performance test reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on November 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test and each CEMS performance evaluation required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k). As required by § 63.7(g)(2)(iv), you must include the value for the combustion zone temperature operating parameter limit set based on your performance test in the performance test report. If the monitoring alternative in § 63.427(f) is used, indicate that this monitoring alternative is being used, identify each loading rack that loads gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart, and report the highest instantaneous pressure monitored during the performance test or performance evaluation for each identified loading rack. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test or performance evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.


(k) The owner or operator must submit all Notification of Compliance Status reports in PDF format to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead.


(l) Prior to May 8, 2027, each owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable.


(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 63.424 shall report to the Administrator a description of the types, identification numbers, and locations of all equipment in gasoline service. For facilities electing to implement an instrument program under § 63.424(b)(4), the report shall contain a full description of the program.


(i) In the case of an existing source or a new source that has an initial startup date before December 14, 1994, the report shall be submitted with the notification of compliance status required under § 63.9(h), unless an extension of compliance is granted under § 63.6(i). If an extension of compliance is granted, the report shall be submitted on a date scheduled by the Administrator.


(ii) In the case of new sources that did not have an initial startup date before December 14, 1994, the report shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction, as described in § 63.5(d).


(2) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include in a semiannual report to the Administrator the following information, as applicable:


(i) Each loading of a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation had not been previously obtained by the facility;


(ii) Periodic reports as specified in § 60.115b of this chapter; and


(iii) The number of equipment leaks not repaired within 5 days after detection.


(3) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an excess emissions report to the Administrator in accordance with § 63.10(e)(3), whether or not a CMS is installed at the facility. The following occurrences are excess emissions events under this subpart, and the following information shall be included in the excess emissions report, as applicable:


(i) Each exceedance or failure to maintain, as appropriate, the monitored operating parameter value determined under § 63.425(b)(3). The report shall include the monitoring data for the days on which exceedances or failures to maintain have occurred, and a description and timing of the steps taken to repair or perform maintenance on the vapor collection and processing systems or the CMS.


(ii) Each instance of a nonvapor-tight gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility in which the owner or operator failed to take steps to assure that such cargo tank would not be reloaded at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank was obtained.


(iii) Each reloading of a nonvapor-tight gasoline cargo tank at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank is obtained by the facility in accordance with § 63.422(c).


(iv) For each occurrence of an equipment leak for which no repair attempt was made within 5 days or for which repair was not completed within 15 days after detection:


(A) The date on which the leak was detected;


(B) The date of each attempt to repair the leak;


(C) The reasons for the delay of repair; and


(D) The date of successful repair.


(4) Each owner or operator of a facility meeting the criteria in § 63.420(c) shall perform the requirements of this paragraph (l)(4), all of which will be available for public inspection:


(i) Document and report to the Administrator not later than December 16, 1996, for existing facilities, within 30 days for existing facilities subject to § 63.420(c) after December 16, 1996, or at startup for new facilities the methods, procedures, and assumptions supporting the calculations for determining criteria in § 63.420(c);


(ii) Maintain records to document that the facility parameters established under § 63.420(c) have not been exceeded; and


(iii) Report annually to the Administrator that the facility parameters established under § 63.420(c) have not been exceeded.


(iv) At any time following the notification required under paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section and approval by the Administrator of the facility parameters, and prior to any of the parameters being exceeded, the owner or operator may submit a report to request modification of any facility parameter to the Administrator for approval. Each such request shall document any expected HAP emission change resulting from the change in parameter.


(5) Each owner or operator of a facility meeting the criteria in § 63.420(d) shall perform the requirements of this paragraph (l)(5), all of which will be available for public inspection:


(i) Document and report to the Administrator not later than December 16, 1996, for existing facilities, within 30 days for existing facilities subject to § 63.420(d) after December 16, 1996, or at startup for new facilities the use of the emission screening equations in § 63.420(a)(1) or (b)(1) and the calculated value of E_T_ or E_P_;


(ii) Maintain a record of the calculations in § 63.420 (a)(1) or (b)(1), including methods, procedures, and assumptions supporting the calculations for determining criteria in § 63.420(d); and


(iii) At any time following the notification required under paragraph (l)(5)(i) of this section, and prior to any of the parameters being exceeded, the owner or operator may notify the Administrator of modifications to the facility parameters. Each such notification shall document any expected HAP emission change resulting from the change in parameter.


(m) On or after May 8, 2027, you must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (m)(1) through (8) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraph (n) of this section.


(1) Report the following general facility information:


(i) Facility name.


(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State.


(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(iv) The following information for the contact person:


(A) Name.


(B) Mailing address.


(C) Telephone number.


(D) Email address.


(v) The type of facility (bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station).


(vi) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.


(vii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (m)(1)(vii).


(2) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the emission limit in § 60.502a(c)(1) of this chapter by monitoring the combustion zone temperature as specified in § 60.502a(c)(1)(ii), for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h), and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(2), report the following information for the CMS:


(i) For all instances when the temperature CPMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit or when the vapor collection system pressure exceeded the maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter when liquid product was being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or when the TOC CEMS measured 3-hour rolling average concentrations higher than the applicable emission limitation when the vapor recovery system was operating:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation.


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.


(C) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature, average pressure, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration during the deviation. For TOC concentration, indicate whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration.


(D) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.


(ii) For all instances that the temperature CPMS for measuring the combustion zone temperature or pressure CPMS was not operating or out of control when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks, or the TOC CEMS was not operating or was out of control when the vapor recovery system was operating:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation.


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.


(C) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).


(F) For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, report either an indication that there were no deviations from the operating limits when using the limited alternative or report the number of each of the following types of deviations that occurred during the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).


(*1*) The number of adsorption cycles when the quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks exceeded the operating limit established in § 60.504a(e)(1) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*2*) The number of desorption cycles when the vacuum pressure was below the average vacuum pressure as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(i) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*3*) The number of desorption cycles when the quantity of purge gas used was below the average quantity of purge gas as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*4*) The number of desorption cycles when the duration of the vacuum/purge cycle was less than the average duration as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(iii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(3) For each flare used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(3) of this chapter and for each thermal oxidation system using the flare monitoring alternative as provided in § 60.502a(c)(1)(iii), report:


(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:


(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame was present.


(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met. Additionally, report the information in paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, as applicable.


(*1*) If you use the loading rate operating limits as determined in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter alone or in combination with the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum ratio and the actual ratio of gasoline loaded to total product loaded for the rolling 15-minute period and, if applicable, the required minimum quantity and the actual quantity of gasoline loaded, in gallons, for the rolling 15-minute period.


(*2*) If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum supplemental gas flow rate and the actual supplemental gas flow rate including units of flow rates for the 15-minute block.


(*3*) If you use parameter monitoring systems other than those specified in paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section, the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during the deviation determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.


(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” were routed to the flare or thermal oxidation system and the applicable monitoring was not performed.


(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (m)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:


(A) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.


(4) For any instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502a(e)(1) of this chapter was not provided or available in the terminal's records, report:


(i) Cargo tank owner and address.


(ii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.


(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.


(5) For each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 63.421, not equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system, report:


(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.


(ii) The type of deviation (*e.g.,* not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(6) Report the following information for each leak inspection required and each leak identified under § 63.424(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.


(i) For each leak detected during a leak inspection required under § 63.424(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter, report:


(A) The date of inspection.


(B) The leak determination method (OGI or Method 21).


(C) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were detected.


(D) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.


(E) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.


(F) The total number and types of equipment that were placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.


(ii) For leaks identified under § 63.424(c) by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties report:


(A) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were identified.


(B) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.


(C) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.


(D) The total number and type of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.


(iii) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the start of the reporting period.


(iv) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the end of the reporting period.


(v) For each leak that was on the delay of repair list at any time during the reporting period, report:


(A) Unique equipment identification number.


(B) Type of equipment.


(C) Leak determination method (OGI, Method 21, or audio/visual/olfactory).


(D) The reason(s) why the repair was not feasible within 15 calendar days.


(E) If applicable, the date repair was completed.


(7) For each gasoline storage vessel subject to requirements in § 63.423, report:


(i) The information specified in § 60.115b(a) or (b) of this chapter or deviations in measured parameter values from the plan specified in § 60.115b(c) of this chapter, depending upon the control equipment installed, or, if applicable, the information specified in § 63.1066(b).


(ii) If you are complying with § 63.423(b)(2), for each deviation in LEL monitoring, report:


(A) Date and start and end times of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.


(B) Description of the monitoring event, *e.g.,* monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2); re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt.


(C) Wind speed in miles per hour at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.


(D) The highest 5-minute rolling average reading during the monitoring event.


(E) Whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service. If the floating roof was repaired or replaced, also report the information in paragraphs (m)(7)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section for each re-monitoring conducted to confirm the repair.


(8) If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards, then provide a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards during the reporting period. If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CEMS or CPMS) was inoperable or out-of-control, then provide a statement that there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period.


(n) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit semiannual compliance reports with the information specified in paragraph (l) or (m) of this section to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on May 8, 2027, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for one year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent semiannual compliance reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.



---

[N] [89 FR 39364, May 8, 2024]










