# ยง 842.55   Claims not payable.

A claim is not payable when it:


(a) Is waived under an applicable international agreement, or pursuant to an applicable international agreement, a receiving state should adjudicate and pay the claim. However, if a foreign government subject to such an international agreement disputes its legal responsibilities under the agreement, and the claimant has no other means of compensation, USAF/JACC may authorize payment.


(b) Is purely contractual in nature.


(c) Is for attorney fees, punitive damages, a judgment or interest on a judgment, bail, or court costs. FCC should consider providing early notice to claimants that attorney fees are not payable as an item of damage under the FCA.


(d) Accrues from a private contractual relationship between U.S. personnel and third parties about property leases, public utilities, hiring of domestic servants, and debts of any description. This claim is sent for action to the commander of the person concerned (see 32 CFR part 818).


(e) Is based solely on compassionate grounds.


(f) Is a paternity claim.


(g) Is for patent or copyright infringement.


(h) Results wholly from the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant or agent.


(i) Is for rent, damage, or other payments involving regular acquisition, possession, and disposition of real property by or for the Air Force.


(j) Is filed by a Communist country or its inhabitants, unless authorized by AFLOA/JACC.


(k) Is for real property taken by a continuing trespass.


(l) Is for personal injury or death of a person covered by:


(1) The Federal Employees' Compensation Act (5 U.S.C. 8101, *et seq.*).


(2) The Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901, *et seq.*).


(3) A U.S. contract or agreement providing employee benefits through insurance, local law, or custom, where the United States pays for them either directly or as part of the consideration under the contract. (See 42 U.S.C. 1651 and 42 U.S.C. 1701.) The Judge Advocate General or Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation Staff, AFLOA/JACC, may authorize an award where local benefits are not adequate. Local benefits are deducted from any award.


(m) Results from an action by an enemy, or directly or indirectly from an act of the U.S. Armed Forces in combat, except that a claim may be allowed if it arises from an accident or malfunction incident to the operation of an aircraft of the U.S. Armed Forces, including its airborne ordnance, indirectly related to combat, and occurring while preparing for or going to, or returning from a combat mission.


(n) Is based on negligence of a concessionaire or other independent contractor.


(o) Arises out of personal activities of family members, guests, servants, or activities of the pets of members and employees of the U.S. Armed Forces.


(p) Is the subject of litigation against the United States or its employees. This restriction does not apply to joint criminal/civil proceedings in a foreign court. Claims settlement may be authorized by AFLOA/JACC in appropriate cases on request.


(q) Is covered under U.S. admiralty or maritime laws, unless authorized by The Judge Advocate General or Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation Staff.


(r) Is one for which a foreign government is responsible under SOFA, treaty, or other agreement. However, AFLOA/JACC may authorize payment of a claim where the foreign government refuses to recognize its legal responsibilities and the claimant has no other means of compensation.


(s) Is not in the best interest of the United States, is contrary to public policy, or otherwise contrary to the basic intent of the FCA. Claims considered not payable on this basis will be forwarded to USAF/JACC for final decision.


(t) Is presented by a national, or a corporation controlled by a national, of a country at war or engaged in armed conflict with the United States, or any country allied with such enemy country unless the settlement authority determines the claimant is, and at the time of the incident was, friendly to the United States. Exception: A prisoner of war or interned enemy alien is not excluded from filing a claim for damage, loss, or destruction of personal property within the U.S. Armed Forces' custody if the claim is otherwise payable.



---

[N] [55 FR 2809, Jan. 29, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 81 FR 83692, 83693, Nov. 22, 2016]




