# § 3288.40   Nonbinding arbitration.

(a) *When initiated.* (1) If, following mediation under § 3288.35, the parties fail to reach a settlement, any party or the homeowner may, within 15 days of the expiration of the deadline applicable under § 3288.35(b), initiate nonbinding arbitration.


(2) In addition, arbitration may be initiated upon referral by the mediator pursuant to § 3288.35(c).


(b) *Written request*—(1) *Submission to HUD.* A written request for arbitration must be submitted to the dispute resolution provider. Information about the dispute resolution provider and how to make a request for dispute resolution will be available at *http://www.hud.gov* or by contacting HUD's Office of Manufactured Housing Programs at (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891.


(2) *Contents of request.* The written request for arbitration must include:


(i) The name and address of the party making the request;


(ii) A brief description of the alleged defect or a copy of the report of the alleged defect; and


(iii) A copy of the request for dispute resolution.


(c) *Appointment and authority of arbitrator.* Upon receipt of the request, the dispute resolution provider will select an arbitrator. The arbitrator will have the authority to:


(1) Set hearing dates and deadlines;


(2) Conduct on-site inspections;


(3) Issue requests for documentation and information necessary to complete the record;


(4) Dismiss frivolous allegations;


(5) Make proposed findings, including findings of defect and culpability and a disposition recommendation to HUD; and


(6) Recommend apportionment of the responsibility of paying for or providing any correction or repair of the home when recommending that culpability be assessed to more than one party.


(d) *Denial of dispute.* If the parties deny a dispute exists and the arbitrator determines there is a defect, the arbitrator will make a determination of responsibility for the defect.


(e) *Notice to parties.* The dispute resolution provider will provide the parties and the homeowner with a notice setting forth the date, place, and time an arbitration is to be held.


(f) *Proceedings.* (1) If all parties do not request an in-person hearing under paragraph (f)(2) of this section within 5 days of the dispute resolution provider's receipt of the request for arbitration, or if the arbitrator rejects the request for an in-person hearing, the arbitrator may conduct either a record review or a telephonic hearing.


(2) If any party wants to request an in-person hearing, in which the parties or their representatives may personally appear before the arbitrator, the arbitrator will consider such a request if it is made by all of the parties that are participating in the arbitration. Such an in-person hearing will be held at the discretion of the arbitrator, after considering appropriate factors, such as cost.


(g) *Effect on nonparticipating parties.* If a party chooses not to participate in the arbitration, the process will continue without further input from that party. In such a case, the arbitrator may rely on the record developed through the arbitration to find a nonparticipating party responsible for correction or repair of a defect.


(h) *Completion of arbitration.* (1) Unless an extension is granted for good cause by HUD, the arbitrator, within 21 days of the dispute resolution provider's receipt of the request for arbitration, the arbitrator will complete the arbitration process and provide HUD with all background information used during the arbitration and with a written, nonbinding recommendation as to which party or parties are responsible for the defect, and what corrective actions should be taken.


(2) Unless an extension is granted for good cause by HUD, the arbitrator, within 21 days of the dispute resolution provider's receipt of the request for arbitration, will provide the parties with a copy of the nonbinding recommendation that was delivered to HUD, in accordance with § 3288.40(h)(1).


(i) *Settlement offers.* At any time before HUD issues a final order, the parties may submit to HUD a proposal to resolve the dispute.




