# § 572.197   Abdomen.

(a) The abdomen assembly is part of the upper torso assembly (180-3000) and is represented by two ribs (180-3368) and two linear deflection potentiometers (180-3881). The abdomen test is conducted on the complete dummy assembly (180-0000) with the arm (180-6000) on the impacted side removed. The dummy is equipped with a lower spine laterally oriented accelerometer as specified in 49 CFR 572.200(d) and deflection potentiometers specified in drawing 180-3881, installed as shown in sheet 2 of drawing 180-0000. When subjected to the test procedure as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the abdomen shall meet performance requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Test procedure.* (1) Soak the dummy assembly (180-0000) in a test environment as specified in 49 CFR 572.200(j).


(2) Seat the dummy, outfitted with the torso jacket (180-3450) and cotton underwear pants on a calibration bench, specified in Figure V3, the seat pan and the seatback surfaces of which are covered with a 2 mm thick PTFE (Teflon) sheet.


(3) Align the outermost portion of the pelvis flesh of the impacted side of the seated dummy tangent to a vertical plane located within 10 mm of the side edge of the bench as shown in Figure V7-A in Appendix A to this subpart, while the midsagittal plane of the dummy is in vertical orientation.


(4) Push the dummy at the knees and at mid-sternum of the upper torso with just sufficient horizontally oriented force towards the seat back until the back of the upper torso is in contact with the seat back.


(5) While maintaining the dummy's position as specified in paragraph (b)(3) and (4) of this section, the top of the shoulder rib mount (drawing 180-3352) orientation in the fore-and-aft direction is 24.6 ±2.0 degrees relative to horizontal, as shown in Figure V7-B in appendix A to this subpart);


(6) Adjust orientation of the legs such that they are symmetrical about the mid-sagittal plane, the thighs touch the seat pan, the inner part of the right and left legs at the knees are as close as possible to each other, the heels touch the designated foot support surface and the feet are vertical and as close together as possible;


(7) The impactor is specified in 49 CFR 572.200(b);


(8) The impactor is guided, if needed, so that at contact with the abdomen, its longitudinal axis is within ±1 degree of a horizontal plane and perpendicular to the midsagittal plane of the dummy and the centerpoint of the impactor's face is within 2 mm of the vertical midpoint between the two abdominal ribs and coincident with a line parallel to the seat back incline passing through the center of the shoulder yoke assembly arm rotation pivot (drawing 180-3327), as shown in Figure V7-A in appendix A to this subpart;


(9) The dummy's abdomen is impacted at 4.3 ±0.1 m/s.


(10) Allow a period of at least thirty (30) minutes between successive tests of the same abdomen assembly.


(c) *Performance criteria.* (1) While the impact probe is in contact with the dummy's abdomen, the deflection of the upper abdominal rib shall be not less than 36 mm and not more than 47 mm, and the lower abdominal rib not less than 33 mm and not more than 44 mm.


(2) Peak acceleration of the lower spine (T12) laterally oriented accelerometer shall be not less than 9 g and not more than 14 g;


(3) Peak impactor acceleration shall be not less than 12 g and not more than 16 g. 



---

[N] [71 FR 75370, Dec. 14, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 29896, June 23, 2009]




