# § 922.37   Appeals of permitting decisions.

(a) *Potential appellant.* The following person may appeal an action listed in paragraph (b) of this section (hereinafter referred to as “appellant”):


(1) An applicant or holder of a certification of any existing lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access pursuant to § 922.10;


(2) An applicant or a holder of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to § 922.30 or pursuant to site-specific regulations appearing in subparts F through V of this part;




(3) An applicant or a holder of a special use permit issued pursuant to section 310 of the Act and § 922.31; and


(4) An applicant or a holder of an ONMS authorization of an agency approval issued by any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction pursuant to § 922.36.


(5) For those National Marine Sanctuaries described in subparts F through K and S and T of this part, any interested person may also appeal the same actions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(b) *Actions that may be appealed.* An appellant may appeal the following actions to the Assistant Administrator:


(1) The denial, conditioning, amendment, suspension, or revocation by the Director of a general permit pursuant to § 922.30 or other relevant subpart, special use permit pursuant to section 310 of the Act and § 922.31, or an ONMS authorization issued pursuant to § 922.36; or a certification under § 922.10.


(2) Reserved.


(c) *Appeal requirements.* Appeals must be made in writing to the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, NOAA, 1305 East-West Highway, 13th Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910 and must:


(1) State the action(s) by the Director being appealed;


(2) State the reason(s) for the appeal; and


(3) Be received within 30 days of the appellant's receipt of notice of the action by the Director.


(d) *Appeal procedures.* (1) The Assistant Administrator may request the appellant submit such information as the Assistant Administrator deems necessary in order to render a decision on the appeal. The information requested must be received by the Assistant Administrator within 45 days of the postmark date of the request.


(2) The Assistant Administrator may seek the views of any other persons when deciding an appeal.


(3) The Assistant Administrator may hold an informal hearing. If an informal hearing is held:


(i) The Assistant Administrator may designate an officer before whom the hearing shall be held;


(ii) The hearing officer shall give notice in the _Federal Register_ of the time, place and subject matter of the hearing;


(iii) The appellant and Director may appear personally or by counsel at the hearing and submit such material and present such arguments as deemed appropriate by the hearing officer; and


(iv) The hearing officer shall recommend a decision in writing to the Assistant Administrator ithin 60 days after the record for the hearing closes.


(e) *Deciding an appeal.* (1) The Assistant Administrator shall decide the appeal using the same regulatory criteria as for the initial decision and shall base the appeal decision on the record before the Director and any information submitted at the Assistant Administrator's request pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, regarding the appeal, and, if a hearing has been held, on the record before the hearing officer and the hearing officer's recommended decision.


(2) The Assistant Administrator shall notify the appellant of the final decision and the reason(s) therefore in writing.


(3) The Assistant Administrator's decision shall constitute final agency action for purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act.


(f) *Authority to extend time limits.* Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section other than the 30-day limit for filing an appeal pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section may be extended by the Assistant Administrator for good cause.



---

[N] [88 FR 962, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]




