# § 550.160   When will BOEM grant me a right-of-use and easement (RUE), and what requirements must I meet?

(a) A RUE is required to construct, secure to the seafloor, use, modify, or maintain platforms, seafloor production equipment, artificial islands, facilities, installations, and/or other devices at an OCS site other than an OCS lease you own, that are:


(1) Permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed; and


(2) Used for conducting exploration, development, and production activities or other operations on or off lease; or


(3) Used for other purposes approved by BOEM.


(b) You must exercise the RUE according to the terms of the grant and the regulations in this part.


(c) You must meet the qualification requirements at §§ 556.400 through 556.402 of this subchapter and the applicable financial assurance requirements in this section and part 556, subpart I of this subchapter.


(d) If you apply for a RUE on a leased area, you must notify the lessee and give her/him an opportunity to comment on your application; and


(e) You must receive BOEM approval for all platforms, seafloor production equipment, artificial islands, facilities, installations, and/or other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed.


(f) You must pay a rental amount as required by paragraph (g) of this section if:


(1) You obtain a RUE after January 12, 2004; or


(2) You ask BOEM to modify your RUE to change the footprint of the associated platform, seafloor production equipment, artificial island, facility, installation, and/or device.


(g) If you meet either of the conditions in paragraph (f) of this section, you must pay a rental amount to BOEM as shown in the following table:


(h) You may make the rental payments required by paragraph (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section on an annual basis, for a 5-year period, or for multiples of 5 years. You must make the first payment electronically through *Pay.gov* and you must include a copy of the *Pay.gov* confirmation receipt page with your right-of-use and easement application. You must make all subsequent payments before the respective time periods begin.


(i) *Late payments.* An interest charge will be assessed on unpaid and underpaid amounts from the date the amounts are due, in accordance with the provisions found in 30 CFR 1218.54. If you fail to make a payment that is late after written notice from BOEM, BOEM may initiate cancellation of the right-of-use grant and easement.



---

[N] [76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 31589, Apr. 24, 2024]






