# ยง 1485.31   Anti-fraud requirements.

(a) *All MAP Participants.* (1) All MAP Participants annually shall submit to CCC for approval a detailed fraud prevention program. CCC will notify all new and existing MAP Participants in writing in each Participant's approval letter and through the FAS website as to applicable submission dates for and dates for approvals of fraud prevention programs. MAP Participants should review their fraud prevention programs annually. The fraud prevention program shall, at a minimum, include an annual review of physical controls and weaknesses, a standard process for investigating and remediation of suspected fraud cases, and training in risk management and fraud detection for all current and future employees. The MAP Participant shall not conduct or permit any MAP promotion activities to occur unless and until CCC has communicated in writing approval of the MAP Participant's fraud prevention program.


(2) The MAP Participant, within five business days of receiving an allegation or information giving rise to a reasonable suspicion of misrepresentation or fraud that could give rise to a claim by CCC, shall report such allegation or information in writing to such USDA personnel as specified in the Participant's agreement and/or approval letter. The MAP Participant shall cooperate fully in any USDA investigation of such allegation or occurrence of misrepresentation or fraud and shall comply with any directives given by CCC or USDA to the MAP Participant for the prompt investigation of such allegation or occurrence.


(b) *MAP Participants with brand programs.* (1) The MAP Participant may charge a fee to brand participants to cover the cost of the fraud prevention program.


(2) The MAP Participant shall repay to CCC funds paid to a brand participant through the MAP Participant on claims that the MAP Participant or CCC subsequently determines are unauthorized or otherwise non-reimbursable expenses within 30 calendar days of the MAP Participant's determination or CCC's disallowance. The MAP Participant shall repay CCC by submitting a check to CCC or by offsetting the MAP Participant's next reimbursement claim. The MAP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC. A MAP Participant operating a brand program in strict accordance with an approved fraud prevention program, however, will not be liable to reimburse CCC for MAP funds paid on such claims if the claims were based on misrepresentations or fraud of the brand participant, its employees, or agents, unless CCC determines that the MAP Participant was grossly negligent in the operation of the brand program regarding such claims. CCC shall communicate any such determination to the MAP Participant in writing.




