# § 242.819   Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules.

(a) *General.* A security-based swap execution facility shall:


(1) Establish and enforce compliance with any rule established by such security-based swap execution facility, including the terms and conditions of the security-based swaps traded or processed on or through the facility, and any limitation on access to the facility;


(2) Establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including means to provide market participants with impartial access to the market and to capture information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred; and


(3) Establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including rules specifying trading procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded or posted on the facility.


(b) *Operation of security-based swap execution facility and compliance with rules.* (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall establish rules governing the operation of the security-based swap execution facility, including, but not limited to, rules specifying trading procedures to be followed by members when entering and executing orders traded or posted on the security-based swap execution facility.


(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and impartially enforce compliance with the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, including, but not limited to:


(i) The terms and conditions of any security-based swaps traded or processed on or through the security-based swap execution facility;


(ii) Access to the security-based swap execution facility;


(iii) Trade practice rules;


(iv) Audit trail requirements;


(v) Disciplinary rules; and


(vi) Mandatory trading requirements.


(c) *Access requirements*—(1) *Impartial access to markets and market services.* A security-based swap execution facility shall provide any eligible contract participant and any independent software vendor with impartial access to its market(s) and market services, including any indicative quote screens or any similar pricing data displays, provided that the facility has:


(i) Criteria governing such access that are impartial, transparent, and applied in a fair and non-discriminatory manner;


(ii) Procedures whereby eligible contract participants provide the security-based swap execution facility with written or electronic confirmation of their status as eligible contract participants, as defined by the Act and Commission rules thereunder, prior to obtaining access; and


(iii) Comparable fee structures for eligible contract participants and independent software vendors receiving comparable access to, or services from, the security-based swap execution facility.


(2) *Jurisdiction.* Prior to granting any eligible contract participant access to its facilities, a security-based swap execution facility shall require that the eligible contract participant consent to its jurisdiction.


(3) *Limitations on access.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and impartially enforce rules governing any decision to allow, deny, suspend, or permanently bar an eligible contract participant's access to the security-based swap execution facility, including when a decision is made as part of a disciplinary or emergency action taken by the security-based swap execution facility.


(4) *Commission review with respect to a denial or limitation of access to any service or a denial or conditioning of membership*—(i) *In general.* An application for review by the Commission may be filed by any person who is aggrieved by a determination of a security-based swap execution facility with respect to any final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access to any service offered by the security-based swap execution facility or any final action with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership, as defined in § 242.835(b)(2) of this chapter (Rule 835(b)(2)), in accordance with § 201.442 of this chapter (Rule of Practice 442).


(ii) *Standard to govern Commission review.* In reviewing such a determination, if the Commission finds that the specific grounds on which such denial, limitation, or conditioning is based exist in fact, that such denial, limitation, or conditioning is in accordance with the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, and that such rules are, and were applied in a manner, consistent with the purposes of the Exchange Act, the Commission, by order, shall dismiss the proceeding. If the Commission does not make any such finding or if it finds that such denial, limitation, or conditioning imposes any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act, the Commission, by order, shall set aside the action of the security-based swap execution facility and require it to admit such person to membership or participation or grant such person access to services offered by the security-based swap execution facility.


(d) *Rule enforcement program.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and it shall have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules.


(1) *Abusive trading practices prohibited.* A security-based swap execution facility shall prohibit abusive trading practices on its markets by members. A security-based swap execution facility that permits intermediation shall prohibit customer-related abuses including, but not limited to, trading ahead of customer orders, trading against customer orders, accommodation trading, and improper cross trading. Specific trading practices that shall be prohibited include front-running, wash trading, pre-arranged trading (except for transactions approved by or certified to the Commission pursuant § 242.806 or § 242.807, respectively), fraudulent trading, money passes, and any other trading practices that a security-based swap execution facility deems to be abusive. A security-based swap execution facility shall also prohibit any other manipulative or disruptive trading practices prohibited by the Act or by the Commission pursuant to Commission regulation.


(2) *Capacity to detect and investigate rule violations.* A security-based swap execution facility shall have arrangements and resources for effective enforcement of its rules. Such arrangements shall include the authority to collect information and documents on both a routine and non-routine basis, including the authority to examine books and records kept by the security-based swap execution facility's members and by persons under investigation. A security-based swap execution facility's arrangements and resources shall also facilitate the direct supervision of the market and the analysis of data collected to determine whether a rule violation has occurred.


(3) *Compliance staff and resources.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and maintain sufficient compliance staff and resources to ensure that it can conduct effective audit trail reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and real-time market monitoring. The security-based swap execution facility's compliance staff shall also be sufficient to address unusual market or trading events as they arise, and to conduct and complete investigations in a timely manner, as set forth in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.


(4) *Automated trade surveillance system.* A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain an automated trade surveillance system capable of detecting potential trade practice violations. The automated trade surveillance system shall load and process daily orders and trades no later than 24 hours after the completion of the trading day. The automated trade surveillance system shall have the capability to detect and flag specific trade execution patterns and trade anomalies; compute, retain, and compare trading statistics; reconstruct the sequence of market activity; perform market analyses; and support system users to perform in-depth analyses and ad hoc queries of trade-related data.


(5) *Real-time market monitoring.* A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct real-time market monitoring of all trading activity on its system(s) or platform(s) to identify any market or system anomalies. A security-based swap execution facility shall have the authority to adjust trade prices or cancel trades when necessary to mitigate market disrupting events caused by malfunctions in its system(s) or platform(s) or errors in orders submitted by members. Any trade price adjustments or trade cancellations shall be transparent to the market and subject to standards that are clear, fair, and publicly available.


(6) *Investigations and investigation reports*—(i) *Procedures.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and maintain procedures that require its compliance staff to conduct investigations of possible rule violations. An investigation shall be commenced upon the receipt of a request from Commission staff or upon the discovery or receipt of information by the security-based swap execution facility that indicates a reasonable basis for finding that a violation may have occurred or will occur.


(ii) *Timeliness.* Each compliance staff investigation shall be completed in a timely manner. Absent mitigating factors, a timely manner is no later than 12 months after the date that an investigation is opened. Mitigating factors that may reasonably justify an investigation taking longer than 12 months to complete include the complexity of the investigation, the number of firms or individuals involved as potential wrongdoers, the number of potential violations to be investigated, and the volume of documents and data to be examined and analyzed by compliance staff.


(iii) *Investigation reports when a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.* Compliance staff shall submit a written investigation report for disciplinary action in every instance in which compliance staff determines from surveillance or from an investigation that a reasonable basis exists for finding a rule violation. The investigation report shall include the reason the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; compliance staff's analysis and conclusions; and a recommendation as to whether disciplinary action should be pursued.


(iv) *Investigation reports when no reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.* If after conducting an investigation, compliance staff determines that no reasonable basis exists for finding a rule violation, it shall prepare a written report including the reason the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; and compliance staff's analysis and conclusions.


(v) *Warning letters.* The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may authorize its compliance staff to issue a warning letter to a person or entity under investigation or to recommend that a disciplinary panel take such an action. No more than one warning letter may be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same rule violation within a rolling 12-month period.


(e) *Regulatory services provided by a third party*—(1) *Use of regulatory service provider permitted.* A security-based swap execution facility may choose to contract with a registered futures association (under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act), a board of trade designated as a contract market (under section 5 of the Commodity Exchange Act), a national securities exchange, a national securities association, or another security-based swap execution facility (each a “regulatory service provider”), for the provision of services to assist in complying with the Act and Commission rules thereunder, as approved by the Commission. A security-based swap execution facility that chooses to contract with a regulatory service provider shall ensure that such provider has the capacity and resources necessary to provide timely and effective regulatory services, including adequate staff and automated surveillance systems. A security-based swap execution facility shall at all times remain responsible for the performance of any regulatory services received, for compliance with the security-based swap execution facility's obligations under the Act and Commission rules thereunder, and for the regulatory service provider's performance on its behalf.


(2) *Duty to supervise regulatory service provider.* A security-based swap execution facility that elects to use the service of a regulatory service provider shall retain sufficient compliance staff to supervise the quality and effectiveness of the regulatory services provided on its behalf. Compliance staff of the security-based swap execution facility shall hold regular meetings with the regulatory service provider to discuss ongoing investigations, trading patterns, market participants, and any other matters of regulatory concern. A security-based swap execution facility shall also conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy and effectiveness of services provided on its behalf. Such reviews shall be documented carefully and made available to the Commission upon request.


(3) *Regulatory decisions required from the security-based swap execution facility.* A security-based swap execution facility that elects to use the service of a regulatory service provider shall retain exclusive authority in all substantive decisions made by its regulatory service provider, including, but not limited to, decisions involving the cancellation of trades, the issuance of disciplinary charges against members, and denials of access to the trading platform for disciplinary reasons. A security-based swap execution facility shall document any instances where its actions differ from those recommended by its regulatory service provider, including the reasons for the course of action recommended by the regulatory service provider and the reasons why the security-based swap execution facility chose a different course of action.


(f) *Audit trail.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish procedures to capture and retain information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred.


(1) *Audit trail required.* A security-based swap execution facility shall capture and retain all audit trail data necessary to detect, investigate, and prevent customer and market abuses. Such data shall be sufficient to reconstruct all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades within a reasonable period of time and to provide evidence of any violations of the rules of the security-based swap execution facility. An acceptable audit trail shall also permit the security-based swap execution facility to track a customer order from the time of receipt through execution on the security-based swap execution facility.


(2) *Elements of an acceptable audit trail program*—(i) *Original source documents.* A security-based swap execution facility's audit trail shall include original source documents. Original source documents include unalterable, sequentially identified records on which trade execution information is originally recorded, whether recorded manually or electronically. Records for customer orders (whether filled, unfilled, or cancelled, each of which shall be retained or electronically captured) shall reflect the terms of the order, an account identifier that relates back to the account's owner(s), the time of order entry, and the time of trade execution. A security-based swap execution facility shall require that all orders, indications of interest, and requests for quotes be immediately captured in the audit trail.


(ii) *Transaction history database.* A security-based swap execution facility's audit trail program shall include an electronic transaction history database. An adequate transaction history database shall include a history of all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades entered into a security-based swap execution facility's trading system or platform, including all order modifications and cancellations. An adequate transaction history database shall also include:


(A) All data that are input into the trade entry or matching system for the transaction to match and clear;


(B) The customer type indicator code; and


(C) Timing and sequencing data adequate to reconstruct trading.


(iii) *Electronic analysis capability.* A security-based swap execution facility's audit trail program shall include electronic analysis capability with respect to all audit trail data in the transaction history database. Such electronic analysis capability shall ensure that the security-based swap execution facility has the ability to reconstruct indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades, and identify possible trading violations with respect to both customer and market abuse.


(iv) *Safe-storage capability.* A security-based swap execution facility's audit trail program shall include the capability to safely store all audit trail data retained in its transaction history database. Such safe-storage capability shall include the capability to store all data in the database in a manner that protects it from unauthorized alteration, as well as from accidental erasure or other loss. Data shall be retained in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of § 242.826 (Core Principle 9).


(3) *Enforcement of audit trail requirements*—(i) *Annual audit trail and recordkeeping reviews.* A security-based swap execution facility shall enforce its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements through at least annual reviews of all members and persons and firms subject to the security-based swap execution facility's recordkeeping rules to verify their compliance with the security-based swap execution facility's audit trail and recordkeeping requirements. Such reviews shall include, but are not limited to, reviews of randomly selected samples of front-end audit trail data for order routing systems; a review of the process by which user identifications are assigned and user identification records are maintained; a review of usage patterns associated with user identifications to monitor for violations of user identification rules; and reviews of account numbers and customer type indicator codes in trade records to test for accuracy and improper use.


(ii) *Enforcement program required.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish a program for effective enforcement of its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements. An effective program shall identify members, persons, and firms subject to the security-based swap execution facility's recordkeeping rules that have failed to maintain high levels of compliance with such requirements, and impose meaningful sanctions when deficiencies are found. Sanctions shall be sufficient to deter recidivist behavior. No more than one warning letter shall be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same violation of audit trail or recordkeeping requirements within a rolling 12-month period.


(g) *Disciplinary procedures and sanctions.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the capacity to enforce such rules through prompt and effective disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion of members that violate the rules of the security-based swap execution facility.


(1) *Enforcement staff.* (i) A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and maintain sufficient enforcement staff and resources to effectively and promptly prosecute possible rule violations within the disciplinary jurisdiction of the security-based swap execution facility.


(ii) The enforcement staff of a security-based swap execution facility shall not include members or other persons whose interests conflict with their enforcement duties.


(iii) A member of the enforcement staff shall not operate under the direction or control of any person or persons with trading privileges at the security-based swap execution facility.


(iv) The enforcement staff of a security-based swap execution facility may operate as part of the security-based swap execution facility's compliance department.


(2) *Disciplinary panels.* A security-based swap execution facility shall establish one or more disciplinary panels that are authorized to fulfill their obligations under the rules of this section. Disciplinary panels shall meet the composition requirements of § 242.834(d), and shall not include any members of the security-based swap execution facility's compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding.


(3) *Notice of charges.* If compliance staff authorized by a security-based swap execution facility or disciplinary panel thereof determines that a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation and adjudication is warranted, it shall direct that the person or entity alleged to have committed the violation be served with a notice of charges. A notice of charges shall adequately state the acts, conduct, or practices in which the respondent is alleged to have engaged; state the rule or rules alleged to have been violated (or about to be violated); advise the respondent that it is entitled, upon request, to a hearing on the charges; and prescribe the period within which a hearing on the charges may be requested. If the rules of the security-based swap execution facility so provide, a notice may also advise:


(i) That failure to request a hearing within the period prescribed in the notice, except for good cause, may be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing; and


(ii) That failure to answer or to deny expressly a charge may be deemed to be an admission of such charge.


(4) *Right to representation.* Upon being served with a notice of charges, a respondent shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing in all succeeding stages of the disciplinary process, except by any member of the security-based swap execution facility's governing board or disciplinary panel, any employee of the security-based swap execution facility, or any person substantially related to the underlying investigations, such as a material witness or respondent.


(5) *Answer to charges.* A respondent shall be given a reasonable period of time to file an answer to a notice of charges. The rules of a security-based swap execution facility governing the requirements and timeliness of a respondent's answer to a notice of charges shall be fair, equitable, and publicly available.


(6) *Admission or failure to deny charges.* The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may provide that, if a respondent admits or fails to deny any of the charges, a disciplinary panel may find that the violations alleged in the notice of charges for which the respondent admitted or failed to deny any of the charges have been committed. If the security-based swap execution facility's rules so provide, then:


(i) The disciplinary panel may impose a sanction for each violation found to have been committed;


(ii) The disciplinary panel shall promptly notify the respondent in writing of any sanction to be imposed and shall advise the respondent that the respondent may request a hearing on such sanction within the period of time, which shall be stated in the notice; and


(iii) The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may provide that, if a respondent fails to request a hearing within the period of time stated in the notice, the respondent will be deemed to have accepted the sanction.


(7) *Denial of charges and right to hearing.* Where a respondent has requested a hearing on a charge that is denied, or on a sanction set by the disciplinary panel, the respondent shall be given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the rules of the security-based swap execution facility.


(8) *Settlement offers.* (i) The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may permit a respondent to submit a written offer of settlement at any time after an investigation report is completed. The disciplinary panel presiding over the matter may accept the offer of settlement, but may not alter the terms of a settlement offer unless the respondent agrees.


(ii) The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may provide that, in its discretion, a disciplinary panel may permit the respondent to accept a sanction without either admitting or denying the rule violations upon which the sanction is based.


(iii) If an offer of settlement is accepted, the panel accepting the offer shall issue a written decision specifying the rule violations it has reason to believe were committed, including the basis or reasons for the panel's conclusions, and any sanction to be imposed, which shall include full customer restitution where customer harm is demonstrated, except where the amount of restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined. If an offer of settlement is accepted without the agreement of the enforcement staff, the decision shall adequately support the disciplinary panel's acceptance of the settlement. Where applicable, the decision shall also include a statement that the respondent has accepted the sanctions imposed without either admitting or denying the rule violations.


(iv) The respondent may withdraw its offer of settlement at any time before final acceptance by a disciplinary panel. If an offer is withdrawn after submission, or is rejected by a disciplinary panel, the respondent shall not be deemed to have made any admissions by reason of the offer of settlement and shall not be otherwise prejudiced by having submitted the offer of settlement.


(9) *Hearings.* A security-based swap execution facility shall adopt rules that provide for the following minimum requirements for any hearing:


(i) The hearing shall be fair, shall be conducted before members of the disciplinary panel, and shall be promptly convened after reasonable notice to the respondent. A security-based swap execution facility need not apply the formal rules of evidence for a hearing; nevertheless, the procedures for the hearing may not be so informal as to deny a fair hearing;


(ii) No member of the disciplinary panel for the hearing may have a financial, personal, or other direct interest in the matter under consideration;


(iii) In advance of the hearing, the respondent shall be entitled to examine all books, documents, or other evidence in the possession or under the control of the security-based swap execution facility. The security-based swap execution facility may withhold documents that are privileged or constitute attorney work product; were prepared by an employee of the security-based swap execution facility but will not be offered in evidence in the disciplinary proceedings; may disclose a technique or guideline used in examinations, investigations, or enforcement proceedings; or disclose the identity of a confidential source;


(iv) The security-based swap execution facility's enforcement and compliance staffs shall be parties to the hearing, and the enforcement staff shall present their case on those charges and sanctions that are the subject of the hearing;


(v) The respondent shall be entitled to appear personally at the hearing, to cross-examine any persons appearing as witnesses at the hearing, to call witnesses, and to present such evidence as may be relevant to the charges;


(vi) The security-based swap execution facility shall require persons within its jurisdiction who are called as witnesses to participate in the hearing and produce evidence. The security-based swap execution facility shall make reasonable efforts to secure the presence of all other persons called as witnesses whose testimony would be relevant. The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may provide that a sanction may be summarily imposed upon any person within its jurisdiction whose actions impede the progress of a hearing; and


(vii) If the respondent has requested a hearing, a copy of the hearing shall be made and shall become a part of the record of the proceeding. The record shall not be required to be transcribed unless:


(A) The transcript is requested by Commission staff or the respondent;


(B) The decision is appealed pursuant to the rules of the security-based swap execution facility; or


(C) The decision is reviewed by the Commission pursuant to § 201.442 of this chapter. In all other instances, a summary record of a hearing is permitted.


(10) *Decisions.* Promptly following a hearing conducted in accordance with the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, the disciplinary panel shall render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision shall include:


(i) The notice of charges or a summary of the charges;


(ii) The answer, if any, or a summary of the answer;


(iii) A summary of the evidence produced at the hearing or, where appropriate, incorporation by reference of the investigation report;


(iv) A statement of findings and conclusions with respect to each charge and a complete explanation of the evidentiary and other basis for such findings and conclusions with respect to each charge;


(v) An indication of each specific rule that the respondent was found to have violated; and


(vi) A declaration of all sanctions imposed against the respondent, including the basis for such sanctions and the effective date of such sanctions.


(11) *Emergency disciplinary actions.* (i) A security-based swap execution facility may impose a sanction, including suspension, or take other summary action against a person or entity subject to its jurisdiction upon a reasonable belief that such immediate action is necessary to protect the best interest of the market place.


(ii) Any emergency disciplinary action shall be taken in accordance with a security-based swap execution facility's procedures that provide for the following:


(A) If practicable, a respondent should be served with a notice before the action is taken, or otherwise at the earliest possible opportunity. The notice shall state the action, briefly state the reasons for the action, and state the effective time and date, and the duration of the action.


(B) The respondent shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing in all proceedings subsequent to the emergency action taken. The respondent shall be given the opportunity for a hearing as soon as reasonably practicable and the hearing shall be conducted before the disciplinary panel pursuant to the rules of the security-based swap execution facility.


(C) Promptly following the hearing, the security-based swap execution facility shall render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision shall include a description of the summary action taken; the reasons for the summary action; a summary of the evidence produced at the hearing; a statement of findings and conclusions; a determination that the summary action should be affirmed, modified, or reversed; and a declaration of any action to be taken pursuant to the determination, and the effective date and duration of such action.


(12) *Right to appeal.* The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may permit the parties to a proceeding to appeal promptly an adverse decision of a disciplinary panel in all or in certain classes of cases. Such rules may require a party's notice of appeal to be in writing and to specify the findings, conclusions, or sanctions to which objection are taken. If the rules of a security-based swap execution facility permit appeals, then both the respondent and the enforcement staff shall have the opportunity to appeal and:


(i) The security-based swap execution facility shall establish an appellate panel that is authorized to hear appeals. The rules of the security-based swap execution facility may provide that the appellate panel may, on its own initiative, order review of a decision by a disciplinary panel within a reasonable period of time after the decision has been rendered;


(ii) The composition of the appellate panel shall be consistent with § 242.834(d) and shall not include any members of the security-based swap execution facility's compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding. The rules of a security-based swap execution facility shall provide for the appeal proceeding to be conducted before all of the members of the appellate panel or a panel thereof;


(iii) Except for good cause shown, the appeal or review shall be conducted solely on the record before the disciplinary panel, the written exceptions filed by the parties, and the oral or written arguments of the parties; and


(iv) Promptly following the appeal or review proceeding, the appellate panel shall issue a written decision and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision issued by the appellate panel shall adhere to all the requirements of paragraph (g)(10) of this section to the extent that a different conclusion is reached from that issued by the disciplinary panel.


(13) *Disciplinary sanctions*—(i) *In general.* All disciplinary sanctions imposed by a security-based swap execution facility or its disciplinary panels shall be commensurate with the violations committed and shall be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or similar violations by other members. All disciplinary sanctions, including sanctions imposed pursuant to an accepted settlement offer, shall take into account the respondent's disciplinary history. In the event of demonstrated customer harm, any disciplinary sanction shall also include full customer restitution, except where the amount of restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined.


(ii) *Summary fines for violations of rules regarding timely submission of records.* A security-based swap execution facility may adopt a summary fine schedule for violations of rules relating to the failure to timely submit accurate records required for clearing or verifying each day's transactions. A security-based swap execution facility may permit its compliance staff, or a designated panel of security-based swap execution facility officials, to summarily impose minor sanctions against persons within the security-based swap execution facility's jurisdiction for violating such rules. A security-based swap execution facility's summary fine schedule may allow for warning letters to be issued for first-time violations or violators. If adopted, a summary fine schedule shall provide for progressively larger fines for recurring violations.


(14) *Commission review of a disciplinary sanction*—(i) *In general.* An application for review by the Commission may be filed by any person who is aggrieved by a determination of a security-based swap facility with respect to any final disciplinary action, as defined in § 242.835(b)(1) of this chapter (Rule 835(b)(1)), in accordance with § 201.442 of this chapter (Rule of Practice 442).


(ii) *Standard to govern Commission review.* (A) In reviewing such a determination, if the Commission finds that such person has engaged in such acts or practices, or has omitted such acts, as the security-based swap execution facility has found him to have engaged in or omitted, that such acts or practices, or omissions to act, are in violation of the Exchange Act, the rules or regulations thereunder, or the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, and that such provisions are, and were applied in a manner, consistent with the purposes of Exchange Act, the Commission, by order, shall so declare and, as appropriate, affirm the sanction imposed by the security-based swap execution facility, modify the sanction in accordance with paragraph (C) of this subsection, or remand to the security-based swap execution facility for further proceedings; or


(B) if the Commission does not make any such finding it shall, by order, set aside the sanction imposed by the security-based swap execution facility and, if appropriate, remand to the security-based swap execution facility for further proceedings.


(C) If the Commission, having due regard for the public interest and the protection of investors, finds that a sanction imposed by a security-based swap execution facility upon such person imposes any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act or is excessive or oppressive, the Commission may cancel, reduce, or require the remission of such sanction.


(h) *Activities of security-based swap execution facility's employees, governing board members, committee members, and consultants*—(1) *Definitions.* The following definitions shall apply only in this paragraph (h):


(i) *Covered interest,* with respect to a security-based swap execution facility, means:


(A) A security-based swap that trades on the security-based swap execution facility;


(B) A security of an issuer that has issued a security that underlies a security-based swap that is listed on that facility; or


(C) A derivative based on a security that falls within paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section.


(ii) *Pooled investment vehicle* means an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 in which no covered interest constitutes more than 10 percent of the investment company's assets.


(2) *Required rules.* A security-based swap execution facility must maintain in effect rules which have been submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or § 242.807 that, at a minimum, prohibit an employee of the security-based swap execution facility from:


(i) Trading, directly or indirectly, any covered interest; and


(ii) Disclosing to any other person any material, non-public information which such employee obtains as a result of their employment at the security-based swap execution facility, where such employee has or should have a reasonable expectation that the information disclosed may assist another person in trading any covered interest; provided, however, that such rules shall not prohibit disclosures made in the course of an employee's duties, or disclosures made to another security-based swap execution facility, court of competent jurisdiction, or representative of any agency or department of the Federal or State government acting in their official capacity.


(3) *Possible exemptions.* A security-based swap execution facility may adopt rules, which must be submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or § 242.807, which set forth circumstances under which exemptions from the trading prohibition contained in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section may be granted; such exemptions are to be administered by the security-based swap execution facility on a case-by-case basis. Specifically, such circumstances may include:


(i) Participation by an employee in a pooled investment vehicle where the employee has no direct or indirect control with respect to transactions executed for or on behalf of such vehicle;


(ii) Trading by an employee in a derivative based on a pooled investment vehicle that falls within paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section;


(iii) Trading by an employee in a derivative based on an index in which no covered interest constitutes more than 10 percent of the index; and


(iv) Trading by an employee under circumstances enumerated by the security-based swap execution facility in rules which the security-based swap execution facility determines are not contrary to applicable law, the public interest, or just and equitable principles of trade.


(4) *Prohibited conduct.* (i) No employee, governing board member, committee member, or consultant of a security-based swap execution facility shall:


(A) Trade for such person's own account, or for or on behalf of any other account, in any covered interest on the basis of any material, non-public information obtained through special access related to the performance of such person's official duties as an employee, governing board member, committee member, or consultant; or


(B) Disclose for any purpose inconsistent with the performance of such person's official duties as an employee, governing board member, committee member, or consultant any material, non-public information obtained through special access related to the performance of such duties.


(ii) No person shall trade for such person's own account, or for or on behalf of any other account, in any covered interest on the basis of any material, non-public information that such person knows was obtained in violation of this paragraph (h)(4) from an employee, governing board member, committee member, or consultant.


(i) *Service on security-based swap execution facility governing boards or committees by persons with disciplinary histories.* (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain in effect rules which have been submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or § 242.807 that render a person ineligible to serve on its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board who:


(i) Was found within the prior three years by a final decision of a security-based swap execution facility, a self-regulatory organization, an administrative law judge, a court of competent jurisdiction, or the Commission to have committed a disciplinary offense;


(ii) Entered into a settlement agreement with a security-based swap execution facility, a court of competent jurisdiction, or the Commission within the prior three years in which any of the findings or, in the absence of such findings, any of the acts charged included a disciplinary offense;


(iii) Currently is suspended from trading on any security-based swap execution facility, is suspended or expelled from membership with a self-regulatory organization, is serving any sentence of probation, or owes any portion of a fine imposed pursuant to:


(A) A finding by a final decision of a security-based swap execution facility, a self-regulatory organization, an administrative law judge, a court of competent jurisdiction, or the Commission that such person committed a disciplinary offense; or


(B) A settlement agreement with a security-based swap execution facility, a court of competent jurisdiction, or the Commission in which any of the findings or, in the absence of such findings, any of the acts charged included a disciplinary offense;


(iv) Currently is subject to an agreement with the Commission, a security-based swap execution facility, or a self-regulatory organization not to apply for registration with the Commission or membership in any self-regulatory organization;


(v) Currently is subject to or has had imposed on him or her within the prior three years a Commission registration revocation or suspension in any capacity for any reason, or has been convicted within the prior three years of any felony; or


(vi) Currently is subject to a denial, suspension, or disqualification from serving on a disciplinary committee, arbitration panel, or governing board of any security-based swap execution facility or self-regulatory organization.


(2) No person may serve on a disciplinary committee, arbitration panel, oversight panel or governing board of a security-based swap execution facility if such person is subject to any of the conditions listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(3) A security-based swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission a schedule listing all those rule violations which constitute disciplinary offenses and, to the extent necessary to reflect revisions, shall submit an amended schedule within 30 days of the end of each calendar year. A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain and keep current the schedule required by this section, and post the schedule on the security-based swap execution facility's website so that it is in a public place designed to provide notice to members and otherwise ensure its availability to the general public.


(4) A security-based swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission within 30 days of the end of each calendar year a certified list of any persons who have been removed from its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board pursuant to the requirements of this section during the prior year.


(5) Whenever a security-based swap execution facility finds by final decision that a person has committed a disciplinary offense and such finding makes such person ineligible to serve on that security-based swap execution facility's disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board, the security-based swap execution facility shall inform the Commission of that finding and the length of the ineligibility in a form and manner specified by the Commission.


(6) For purposes of this paragraph:


(i) *Arbitration panel* means any person or panel empowered by a security-based swap execution facility to arbitrate disputes involving the security-based swap execution facility's members or their customers.


(ii) *Disciplinary offense* means:


(A) Any violation of the rules of a security-based swap execution facility, except a violation resulting in fines aggregating to less than $5,000 within a calendar year involving:


(*1*) Decorum or attire;


(*2*) Financial requirements; or


(*3*) Reporting or recordkeeping;


(B) Any rule violation which involves fraud, deceit, or conversion or results in a suspension or expulsion;


(C) Any violation of the Act or the Commission's rules thereunder; or


(D) Any failure to exercise supervisory responsibility when such failure is itself a violation of either the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, the Act, or the Commission's rules thereunder.


(E) A disciplinary offense must arise out of a proceeding or action which is brought by a security-based swap execution facility, the Commission, any Federal or State agency, or other governmental body.


(iii) *Final decision* means:


(A) A decision of a security-based swap execution facility which cannot be further appealed within the security-based swap execution facility, is not subject to the stay of the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, and has not been reversed by the Commission or any court of competent jurisdiction; or


(B) Any decision by an administrative law judge, a court of competent jurisdiction, or the Commission which has not been stayed or reversed.


(j) *Notification of final disciplinary action involving financial harm to a customer.* (1) Upon any final disciplinary action in which a security-based swap execution facility finds that a member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for a customer, whether executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer:


(i) The security-based swap execution facility shall promptly provide written notice of the disciplinary action to the member; and


(ii) The security-based swap execution facility shall have established a rule pursuant to § 242.806 or § 242.807 that requires a member that receives such a notice to promptly provide written notice of the disciplinary action to the customer, as disclosed on the member's books and records.


(2) A written notice required by paragraph (j)(1) of this section must include the principal facts of the disciplinary action and a statement that the security-based swap execution facility has found that the member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for the customer, whether executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer.


(3) Solely for purposes of this paragraph (j):


(i) *Customer* means a person that utilizes an agent in connection with trading on a security-based swap execution facility.


(ii) *Final disciplinary action* means any decision by or settlement with a security-based swap execution facility in a disciplinary matter which cannot be further appealed at the security-based swap execution facility, is not subject to the stay of the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, and has not been reversed by the Commission or any court of competent jurisdiction.


(k) *Designation of agent for non-U.S. member.* (1) A security-based swap execution facility that admits a non-U.S. person as a member shall be deemed to be the agent of the non-U.S. member with respect to any security-based swaps executed by the non-U.S. member. Service or delivery of any communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission to the security-based swap execution facility shall constitute valid and effective service upon the non-U.S. member. The security-based swap execution facility which has been served with, or to which there has been delivered, a communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission to a non-U.S. member shall transmit the communication promptly and in a manner which is reasonable under the circumstances, or in a manner specified by the Commission in the communication, to the non-U.S. member.


(2) It shall be unlawful for a security-based swap execution facility to permit a non-U.S. member to execute security-based swaps on the facility unless the security-based swap execution facility prior thereto informs the non-U.S. member in writing of the requirements of this section.


(3) The requirements of paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section shall not apply if the non-U.S. member has duly executed and maintains in effect a written agency agreement in compliance with this paragraph with a person domiciled in the United States and has provided a copy of the agreement to the security-based swap execution facility prior to effecting any transaction on the security-based swap execution facility. This agreement must authorize the person domiciled in the United States to serve as the agent of the non-U.S. member for purposes of accepting delivery and service of all communications issued by or on behalf of the Commission to the non-U.S. member and must provide an address in the United States where the agent will accept delivery and service of communications from the Commission. This agreement must be filed with the Commission by the security-based swap execution facility prior to permitting the non-U.S. member to effect any transactions in security-based swaps. Such agreements shall be filed in a manner specified by the Commission.


(4) A non-U.S. member shall notify the Commission immediately if the written agency agreement is terminated, revoked, or is otherwise no longer in effect. If the security-based swap execution facility knows or should know that the agreement has expired, been terminated, or is no longer in effect, the security-based swap execution facility shall notify the Commission immediately.






