# § 513.10   Award determinations.

(a) Once the time for filing any appeals of the covered action (and all related actions) has expired, or where an appeal has been filed, after all appeals in the covered action and related actions have concluded, and over $1,000,000 in monetary sanctions have been collected, the Agency will evaluate all timely whistleblower award claims submitted on a WB-AWARD form in accordance with the criteria set forth in this part. The Agency may require the claimant to provide additional information relating to the claimant's eligibility for an award or satisfaction of any of the conditions for an award.


(b) The determination of whether, to whom, or in what amount to make an award shall be in the discretion of the Administrator. In determining whether to grant an award to a whistleblower eligible for an award and the amount of an award, the Administrator shall take into consideration, as appropriate:


(1) Whether a whistleblower reported or attempted to report the information internally to an applicable motor vehicle manufacturer, part supplier, or dealership;


(2) The significance of the original information provided by the whistleblower to the successful resolution of the covered action;


(3) The degree of assistance provided by the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower in the covered action;


(4) The statutory purpose of incentivizing whistleblowers; and


(5) The public interest or such additional factors as the Administrator considers relevant.


(c) If the Administrator determines that an award is warranted, the Administrator shall determine the amount of such award or awards to one or more whistleblowers. Whistleblower awards shall be in an aggregate amount equal to—


(1) Not less than 10 percent, in total, of monetary sanctions collected in the covered action; and


(2) Not more than 30 percent, in total, of monetary sanctions collected in the covered action.


(d) Following the Administrator's determination, the Agency will send each whistleblower claimant an Order setting forth whether the claim is granted or denied, and if granted, setting forth the award amount. If the Administrator determines that an award is warranted, in no event will the total amount awarded to all whistleblowers in the aggregate be less than 10 percent or greater than 30 percent of the amount of monetary sanctions collected in the covered action.


(e) No contract with the Agency is necessary for a whistleblower to receive an award.






