# § 761.283   Determination of the number of samples to collect and sample collection locations.

This section addresses how to determine the number of samples to collect and sample collection locations for bulk PCB remediation waste and porous surfaces destined to remain at a cleanup site after cleanup.


(a) *Minimum number of samples.* (1) At each separate cleanup site at a PCB remediation waste location, take a minimum of three samples for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site, regardless of the amount of each type of waste that is present. There is no upper limit to the number of samples required or allowed.


(2) This is an example of how to calculate the minimum number of required samples at a PCB remediation waste location. There are three distinct cleanup sites at this example location: a loading dock, a transformer storage lot, and a disposal pit. The minimum number of samples to take appears in parentheses after each type of waste for each cleanup site. The PCB remediation wastes present at the loading dock are concrete (three samples) and clay soil (three samples). The non-liquid PCB remediation wastes present at the transformer storage lot are oily soil (three samples), clay soil (three samples) and gravel (three samples). The PCB remediation wastes present at the disposal pit are sandy soil (three samples), clay soil (three samples), oily soil (three samples), industrial sludge (three samples), and gravel (three samples).


(b) *Selection of sample locations—general.* (1)(i) Use a square-based grid system to overlay the entire area to be sampled. Orient the grid axes on a magnetic north-south line centered in the area and an east-west axis perpendicular to the magnetic north-south axis also centered in the area.


(ii) If the site is recleaned based on the results of cleanup verification conducted in accordance with § 761.61(a)(6), follow the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section for locating sampling points after the recleaning, but reorient the grid axes established in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section by moving the origin one meter in the direction of magnetic north and one meter in the direction east of magnetic north.


(2) Mark out a series of sampling points 1.5 meters apart oriented to the grid axes. The sampling points shall proceed in every direction to the extent sufficient to result in a two-dimensional grid completely overlaying the sampling area.


(3) Collect a sample at each point if the grid falls in the cleanup area. Analyze all samples either individually or according to the compositing schemes provided in the procedures at § 761.289. So long as every sample collected at a grid point is analyzed as either an individual sample or as part of a composite sample, there are no other restrictions on how many samples are analyzed.


(c) *Selection of sample locations—small cleanup sites.* When a cleanup site is sufficiently small or irregularly shaped that a square grid with a grid interval of 1.5 meters will not result in a minimum of three sampling points for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site, there are two options.


(1) Use a smaller square grid interval and the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Use the following coordinate-based random sampling scheme. If the site is recleaned based on the results of cleanup verification conducted in accordance with § 761.61(a)(6), follow the procedures in this section for locating sampling points after the recleaning, but select three new pairs of sampling coordinates.


(i) Beginning in the southwest corner (lower left when facing magnetic north) of the area to be sampled, measure in centimeters (or inches) the maximum magnetic north-south dimension of the area to be sampled. Next, beginning in the southwest corner, measure in centimeters (or inches) the maximum magnetic east-west dimension of the area to be sampled. Designate the north-south and east-west dimensions (describing the west and south boundaries, respectively, of the area to be sampled), as the reference axes of a square-based grid system.


(ii) Use a random number table or random number generator to select a pair of coordinates that will locate the sample within the area to be sampled. The first coordinate in the pair is the measurement on the north-south axis. The second coordinate in the pair is the measurement on the east-west axis. Collect the sample at the intersection of an east-west line drawn through the measured spot on the north-south axis, and a north-south line drawn through the measured spot on the east-west axis. If the cleanup site is irregularly shaped and this intersection falls outside the cleanup site, select a new pair of sampling coordinates. Continue to select pairs of sampling coordinates until three are selected for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site.


(d) *Area of inference.* Analytical results for an individual sample point apply to the sample point and to an area of inference extending to four imaginary lines parallel to the grid axes and one half grid interval distant from the sample point in four different directions. The area of inference forms a square around the sample point. The sides of the square are parallel to the grid axes and one grid interval in length. The sample point is in the center of the square area of inference. The area of inference from a composite sample is the total of the areas of the individual samples included in the composite.




