# ยง 50.61   Public communication.

(a) *Initial notification.* After the Secretary commences review of whether an act may satisfy the definition in ยง 50.4(b), Treasury shall publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ within 30 days of the Secretary commencing review notifying the public that the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism. Treasury may also announce that an act is not under review for certification.


(b) *Update notification.* Not later than 30 days following the publication of a notice under paragraph (a) of this section that an act is under review for certification, and not later than every 60 days thereafter until the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ notifying the public whether the act is still under review for certification as an act of terrorism.


(c) *Contents of notification.* Nothing in this section shall require Treasury to provide any information other than whether the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism (or is no longer under such review) or shall limit Treasury from providing further information of relevance.


(d) *Rules of construction.* Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from certifying or determining not to certify an act as an act of terrorism before notifying the public that the act is under review for certification. If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification under this section by Treasury impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.


(e) *Nonbinding decision.* A notification made under this section shall not be construed to be a final determination by the Secretary of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.




