# ยง 1008.21   Petitions for amendment: Time limits for processing.

(a) *Acknowledgment of receipt.* The acknowledgment of receipt of a petition required by ยง 1008.20(c) shall be dispatched not later than ten working days after receipt of the petition by the Privacy Act Officer, unless a decision on the petition has been previously dispatched.


(b) *Decision on petition.* A petition for amendment shall be processed promptly. A determination whether to accept or reject the petition for amendment shall be made within 30 working days after receipt of the petition by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record.


(c) *Suspension of time limit.* The 30 working day time limit for a decision on a petition shall be suspended if it is necessary to notify the petitioner, pursuant to ยง 1008.20(d), that additional information in support of the petition is required. Running of the 30 working day time limit shall resume on receipt of the additional information by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record.


(d) *Extensions of time.* (1) The 30 working day time limit for a decision on a petition may be extended if the Privacy Act Officer determines that an extension is necessary for one of the following reasons:


(i) A decision on the petition requires analysis of voluminous record or records;


(ii) Some or all of the challenged records must be collected from facilities other than the facility at which the Privacy Act Officer is located; or


(iii) Some or all of the challenged records are of concern to another agency of the Federal Government whose assistance and views are being sought in processing the request.


(2) If the official responsible for making a decision on the petition determines that an extension is necessary, the official shall promptly inform the petitioner of the extension and the date on which a decision is expected to be dispatched.




