# ยง 349.6   Enforcement.

MARAD shall provide administrative assistance to any individual certified to be entitled to reemployment rights and benefits pursuant to chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, made applicable by 46 App. U.S.C. 1132(a) and these regulations, who alleges in writing to MARAD the failure, refusal, or imminent failure or refusal of an employer to grant such rights or other benefits. The complaint must be sent to MARAD at the address in ยง 349.3. Such complaint may be in any format and shall include the name and address of the employer against whom the complaint is filed and a summary of the allegations that form the basis for the complaint. MARAD will review, investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint by taking one or more of the following actions:


(a) *Consultation with claimant.* MARAD will communicate with the individual filing the complaint, in writing and/or by telephone or other means, to provide assistance in pursuing reemployment rights and benefits with the employer.


(b) *Employer contact.* MARAD may contact the employer and attempt to resolve the complaint to the mutual satisfaction of the complainant and the employer.


(c) *Consultation with Department of Labor.* If attempts by MARAD to resolve the complaint are unsuccessful, MARAD may seek advice on the matter from the U.S. Department of Labor.


(d) *Referral to Attorney General or Merit Systems Protection Board.* MARAD will notify the complainant of an unsuccessful effort to resolve a complaint. Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 4323 and 4324, if the complainant so requests, MARAD will refer to the Attorney General a complaint relating to a private or State employer, or to the Merit Systems Protection Board, for litigation, a complaint relating to a Federal executive agency employer.




