# § 290.5   Basic proposal qualifications.

(a) NIST shall designate each proposal which satisfies the qualifications criteria below as “qualified proposal” and subject the qualified proposals to a merit review. Applications which do not meet the requirements of this section will not receive further consideration.


(1) *Qualified organizations.* Any nonprofit institution, or group thereof, or consortium of nonprofit institutions, including entities which already exist or may be incorporated specifically to manage the Center.


(2) *Proposal format.* Proposals for Center Operating Awards shall:


(i) Be submitted with a Standard Form 424 to the above address;


(ii) *Not exceed 25 typewritten pages in length for the basic proposal document* (which must include the information requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section); it may be accompanied by additional appendices of relevant supplementary attachments and tabular material. Basic proposal documents which exceed 25 pages in length will not be qualified for further review.


(3) *Proposal requirements.* In order to be considered for a Center Operating Award, proposals must contain:


(i) A plan for the allocation of intellectual property rights associated with any invention or copyright which may result from the involvement in the Center's technology transfer or research activities consistent with the conditions of § 290.9;


(ii) A statement which provides adequate assurances that the host organization will contribute 50 percent or more of the proposed Center's capital and annual operating and maintenance costs for the first three years and an increasing share for each of the following three additional years. Applicants should provide evidence that the proposed Center will be self-supporting after six years.


(iii) A statement describing linkages to industry, government, and educational organizations within its service region.


(iv) A statement defining the initial service region including a statement of the constituency to be served and the level of service to be provided, as well as outyear plans.


(v) A statement agreeing to focus the mission of the Center on technology transfer activities and not to exclude companies based on state boundaries.


(vi) A proposed plan for the annual evaluation of the success of the Center by the Program, including appropriate criteria for consideration, and weighting of those criteria.


(vii) A plan to focus the Center's technology emphasis on areas consistent with NIST technology research programs and organizational expertise.


(viii) A description of the planned Center sufficient to permit NIST to evaluate the proposal in accordance with § 290.6 of these procedures.


(b) [Reserved]




