# § 216.118   Requirements for monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.

(a) In addition to the reporting provisions described in § 230.8 of this chapter, the Makah Indian Tribe will:


(1) Ensure a certified Tribal hunt observer accompanies each hunt. The Tribal hunt observer will record in a hunting logbook the time, date, and location (latitude and longitude, accurate to at least the nearest second) of each hunting approach of a gray whale, each attempt to strike a gray whale, and each gray whale struck. For each gray whale struck, the Tribal hunt observer will record whether the whale was landed. If not landed, the Tribal hunt observer will describe the circumstances associated with the striking of the whale and estimate whether the animal suffered a wound that might be fatal. For every gray whale approached by the whaling crew, the Tribal hunt observer must make every reasonable attempt to collect digital photographs useful for photo-identification purposes.


(2) Ensure that each vessel involved in a training approach has onboard a training logbook for recording the date, location, and number of gray whales approached and the number of training harpoon throws. Each training approach and training harpoon throw must be reported to the Tribal hunt observer within 24 hours.


(3) Maintain hunting and training logbooks specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and allow persons designated by NMFS to inspect them upon request.


(4) Ensure that each whaling captain allows a NMFS hunt observer to accompany and observe any hunt.


(5) Maintain an official record of all articles of Makah Indian handicraft, including the following information for each article certified by the Makah Tribal Council or its designee: the date of the certification; the permanent distinctive mark identifying the article as a Makah Indian handicraft; a brief description of the handicraft, including artist's full name, gray whale product(s) used, and approximate size; and at least one digital photograph of the entire handicraft. A copy of the official record of Makah Indian handicrafts must be provided to NMFS personnel, including NMFS enforcement officers, upon request.


(6) Ensure that the following reports are filed electronically with the NMFS West Coast Region's office in Seattle, Washington, by the indicated date:


(i) *Tribal certification report.* Thirty days prior to the beginning of a hunting season, a report that includes the names of all Tribal hunt observers and enrolled Makah Indian Tribal members who have been certified to participate in a hunt as whaling captains, riflemen, harpooners, and safety officers. The Tribe may provide additional names during the hunting season.


(ii) *Incident report.* An incident report must be submitted within 48 hours after striking a gray whale. The report may address multiple gray whales so long as the Tribe submits the report within 48 hours of the first gray whale being struck. An incident report must contain the following information:


(A) Struck and lost gray whale(s): The whaling captain's name; the Tribal hunt observer's name; the date, location (latitude and longitude, accurate to at least the nearest second), time, and number of strikes and attempted strikes if any; the method(s) of strikes and attempted strikes; an estimate of the whale's total length. The report will describe the circumstances associated with the striking of the whale and estimate whether the animal suffered a wound that might be fatal. The report will include all photographs taken by a Tribal hunt observer of gray whales struck and lost by the whaling crew. The report may also contain any other observations by the Makah Indian Tribe concerning the struck and lost whale(s) or circumstances of the hunt.


(B) Struck and landed gray whale(s): The whaling captain's name; the Tribal hunt observer's name; the date, location (latitude and longitude, accurate to at least the nearest second), time, and number of strikes and attempted strikes if any; the method(s) of strikes and attempted strikes; the whale's body length as measured from the point of the upper jaw to the notch between the tail flukes; an estimate of the whale's maximum girth; the extreme width of the tail flukes; the whale's sex and, if female, lactation status; the length and sex of any fetus in the landed whale; photographs of the whale(s), including the entire dorsal right side, the entire dorsal left side, the dorsal aspect of the fluke, and the ventral aspect of the fluke. All such photographs must include a ruler to convey scale and a sign specifying the Makah Indian Tribe's name, whaling captain's name, whale species, and date. The report must also describe the time to death (measured from the time of the first strike to the time of death as indicated by relaxation of the lower jaw, no flipper movement, or sinking without active movement) and the disposition of all specimen samples collected and whale products, including any whale products deemed unsuitable for use by Makah Indian Tribal members. The report may also contain any other observations by the Makah Indian Tribe concerning the landed whale or circumstances of the hunt.


(iii) *Hunt report.* Within 30 days after the end of each hunting season, a report that describes the following information for each day of hunting:


(A) Struck and lost gray whale(s): The report must contain the information specified in paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(A) of this section.


(B) Struck and landed gray whale(s): The report must contain the information specified in paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(B) of this section.


(C) Hunting approaches and unsuccessful strike attempt(s): For each gray whale approached or subjected to an unsuccessful strike attempt(s), the report must contain: The whaling captain's name; the Tribal hunt observer's name; the date, location (latitude and longitude, accurate to at least the nearest second), time, and number of approaches and unsuccessful strike attempts; the method of attempted strikes; an estimate of the total length of any whale subjected to an unsuccessful strike attempt; and all photographs taken by a Tribal hunt observer of gray whales approached by the whaling crew. The report may also contain any other observations by the Makah Indian Tribe concerning the whale(s) approached or subjected to unsuccessful strike attempts or circumstances of the hunt.


(iv) *Annual approach report.* By January 15 of each year, a report containing the dates, location, and number of gray whales subjected to hunting approaches, training approaches, and training harpoon throws during the previous calendar year. The report may also contain any other observations by the Makah Indian Tribe concerning the approached whales or circumstances of the approaches and training harpoon throws.


(v) *Annual handicraft report.* By April 1 of each year, a report that describes all Makah Indian handicrafts certified by the Makah Tribal Council or its designee during the previous calendar year. The report must contain the following information for each handicraft certified: The date of the certification; the permanent distinctive mark identifying the article as a Makah Indian handicraft; a brief description of the handicraft, including artist's full name, gray whale product(s) used, and approximate size; and at least one digital photograph of the entire handicraft.


(vi) *Availability of reports.* The hunt report, annual approach report, and annual handicraft report collected pursuant to this section will be maintained and made available for public review in the NMFS West Coast Region's office in Seattle, Washington.


(b) Upon receiving an incident report specified in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section documenting that eight gray whales have been struck, the Regional Administrator will evaluate:


(1) The photo-identification and notification requirements described in §§ 216.113(b)(6)(iv) and 216.115. The evaluation will address the status of gray whale photo-identification catalogs used to manage gray whale hunts authorized under this subpart, the survey efforts employed to keep those catalogs updated, the level of certainty associated with identifying cataloged WNP gray whales and PCFG whales, the role of ancillary information such as genetic data during catalog review, and any other elements deemed appropriate by the Regional Administrator. The evaluation will be made available to the public no more than 120 days after receiving the subject incident report.


(2) The humaneness of the authorized manner of hunting as specified in § 216.113(a)(1)(iii). To evaluate humaneness, NMFS will convene a team composed of a veterinarian, a marine mammal biologist, and all Tribal hunt observers and NMFS hunt observers who were witness to the strikes described in the incident reports required by this section. The team's evaluation will address the effectiveness of the hunting methods used by the Makah Indian Tribe, the availability and practicability of other such methods, and the time to death of hunted whales, and any other matters deemed appropriate by the Regional Administrator and the team. The team's evaluation will be made available to the public no more than 120 days after receiving the subject incident report.


(c) The NMFS West Coast Region's Seattle office is located at 7600 Sand Point Way NE, Seattle, WA 98115-0070.






