# ยง 403.745   Condition of participation: Building safety.

(a) *Standard: Building Safety.* Except as otherwise provided in this section the RNHCI must meet the applicable provisions and must proceed in accordance with the Health Care Facilities Code (NFPA 99 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, TIA 12-4, TIA 12-5 and TIA 12-6).


*(b) Standard: Exceptions.* Chapters 7, 8, 12, and 13 of the adopted Health Care Facilities Code do not apply to a RNHCI.


(c) *Waiver.* If application of the Health Care Facilities Code required under paragraph (a) of this section would result in unreasonable hardship for the RNHCI, CMS may waive specific provisions of the Health Care Facilities Code, but only if the waiver does not adversely affect the health and safety of individuals.


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* The standards incorporated by reference in this section are approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect a copy at the CMS Information Resource Center, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* If any changes in this edition of the Code are incorporated by reference, CMS will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ to announce the changes.


(1) National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169, *www.nfpa.org*, 1.617.770.3000.


(i) NFPA 99, Standards for Health Care Facilities Code of the National Fire Protection Association 99, 2012 edition, issued August 11, 2011.


(ii) TIA 12-2 to NFPA 99, issued August 11, 2011.


(iii) TIA 12-3 to NFPA 99, issued August 9, 2012.


(iv) TIA 12-4 to NFPA 99, issued March 7, 2013.


(v) TIA 12-5 to NFPA 99, issued August 1, 2013.


(vi) TIA 12-6 to NFPA 99, issued March 3, 2014.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 26896, May 4, 2016]




