# ยง 12.24   Parallel proceedings.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, a parallel proceeding shall include:


(1) An arbitration proceeding or civil court proceeding, involving one or more of the respondents as a party, which is pending at the time the reparation complaint is filed and involves claims or counterclaims that are based on the same set of facts which serve as a basis for all of the claims in the reparations complaint, and which either:


(i) Was commenced at the instance of the complainant in reparations; or


(ii) Involves counterclaims by the complainant in reparations alleging violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, or any regulation or order issued thereunder; or


(iii) Is governed by a compulsory counterclaim rule of Federal court procedure which required the complainant in reparations to assert all of complainant's claims (including those based on alleged violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, and any regulation or order issued thereunder) as counterclaims in that proceeding;


(2) The appointment by a court of a receivership over the assets, property or proceeds of a respondent named in a reparation complaint where the responsibility of the receivership includes the resolution of claims made by customers; or


(3) A petition filed under any chapter of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.,* as amended, commenced pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 301 or 302 by a respondent in a reparation proceeding, or the issuance by a bankruptcy court of an order for relief after the filing against a respondent in a reparation proceeding of an involuntary petition in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 303.


(b) *Notice.* At the time a complaint in reparations is filed pursuant to these rules, or at any time thereafter, any party, receiver or trustee, or counsel to any of the foregoing with knowledge of a parallel proceeding shall promptly notify the Commission, by first-class mail addressed to the Office of Proceedings, attention of the Proceedings Clerk, and serve notice on all other parties, including the receiver or trustee. The notice shall include the following information:


(1) The caption of the parallel proceeding;


(2) The name of the court or the arbitration tribunal (including address and phone number, if known);


(3) The docket number or numbers;


(4) The date the parallel proceeding was filed (and the current status if known); and


(5) If a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership is pending, the date of the appointment and name and address of the receiver or trustee.


(c) *Effect of pending arbitration or civil court litigation.* (1) The Director of the Office of Proceedings shall refuse to institute an elected decisional procedure concerning a reparation complaint filed under this part in which there is a parallel proceeding described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and shall return the complaint to the complaining person. The effective date of the Director's termination of the complaint without prejudice shall be fifteen (15) days from the date of service of notice of the action taken pursuant to this paragraph.


(2) If notice of a parallel proceeding described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is received before the initial decision is filed (or before a final decision under ยง 12.106 of the rules is entered), a proceeding in which a decisional procedure has been commenced shall be dismissed, without prejudice. The effective date of the order of dismissal shall be fifteen (15) days from the date of service of the order by the Proceedings Clerk.


(d) *Effect of receivership or bankruptcy proceedings.* (1) The Director of the Office of Proceedings shall refuse to institute an elected decisional procedure as to a respondent in any reparation complaint filed pursuant to this part who is the subject of a parallel proceeding described in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, and shall notify all parties, including the receiver or trustee, that as to that respondent a reparation proceeding shall not be instituted. The effective date of the Director's action shall be fifteen (15) days from the date of service of the notice thereof.


(2) A proceeding in which an elected decisional procedure has been commenced shall be ordered dismissed, without prejudice, as to any respondent who becomes the subject of a parallel proceeding described in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section if notice pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section is received before the filing of an initial decision (or before a final decision is issued pursuant to ยง 12.106) as to that respondent. The Proceedings Clerk shall notify all parties, including the receiver or trustee, of the order. The effective date of the order shall be fifteen (15) days from the date of the service of the order by the Proceedings Clerk.


(e) *Exceptions.* At the time notice of a parallel proceeding is filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or any time thereafter, any party, or the receiver or trustee, may file and serve upon other parties a statement in support of or in opposition to any action taken or to be taken pursuant to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. This statement shall be addressed to the Office of Proceedings, attention of the Proceedings Clerk. Upon receipt of any such statement, the Proceedings Clerk shall immediately forward the statement to the official with responsibility over the case. The notice and the statements filed by the parties shall be reviewed by that official who, on or before the effective date of action taken pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) and (d)(1) and (2) of this section, may take such actions as, in the official's opinion, are necessary to ensure that the parties to the matter or proceedings are not unduly prejudiced.


(f) *No right of appeal to the Commission.* Any action taken, or order issued, pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2), of this section that has become effective shall be deemed a final order which is not subject to appeal pursuant to subpart F of these rules.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64354, Nov. 18, 2021]




