# § 63.3551   How do I demonstrate initial compliance?

(a) You may use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment, or for all of the coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment. You must use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option must meet the applicable levels of emission reduction in § 63.3490. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each one and two-piece draw and iron can body coating, sheetcoating, three-piece can body assembly coating, and end coating affected source. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings or thinners used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings or thinners that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option. 


(b) *Compliance with operating limits.* You must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.3492, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.3556 and 63.3557. 


(c) *Compliance with work practice requirements.* You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.3493 during the initial compliance period as specified in § 63.3512. 


(d) *Compliance demonstration.* To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option must meet the applicable levels of emission reduction in § 63.3490. You must keep all records applicable to the control efficiency/outlet concentration option as required by §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.3510, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the control efficiency/outlet concentration option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.3492 and the work practice standards required by § 63.3493. 




