# § 357.2   FERC Form No. 6, Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies.

(a) *Who must file.* (1) Each pipeline carrier subject to the provisions of section 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act whose annual jurisdictional operating revenues has been $500,000 or more for each of the three previous calendar years must prepare and file with the Commission copies of FERC Form No. 6, “Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies,” pursuant to the General Instructions set out in that form. Newly established entities must use projected data to determine whether FERC Form No. 6 must be filed. 


(2) Oil pipeline carriers exempt from filing Form No. 6 whose annual jurisdictional operating revenues have been more than $350,000 but less than $500,000 for each of the three previous calendar years must prepare and file pages 301, “Operating Revenue Accounts (Account 600),” and 700, “Annual Cost of Service Based Analysis Schedule,” of FERC Form No. 6. When submitting pages 301 and 700, each exempt oil pipeline carrier must include page 1 of Form No. 6, the Identification and Attestation schedules. 


(3) Oil pipeline carriers exempt from filing Form No. 6 and pages 301 and whose annual jurisdictional operating revenues were $350,000 or less for each of the three previous calendar years must prepare and file page 700, “Annual Cost of Service Based Analysis Schedule,” of FERC Form No. 6. When submitting page 700, each exempt oil pipeline carrier must include page 1 of Form No. 6, the Identification and Attestation schedules. 


(b) *When to file.* (1) The annual report for the year ending December 31, 2004, must be filed on April 25, 2005.


(2) The annual report for each year thereafter must be filed on April 18 of the subsequent year.


(c) *What to submit.* (1) This report form must be filed as prescribed in § 385.2011 of this chapter and as indicated in the General Instructions set out in the report form, and must be properly completed and verified. 


(2) A copy of the report must be retained by the pipeline carrier in its files. The conformed copies may be produced by any legible means of reproduction. 


(3) The form must be filed in electronic format only pursuant to § 385.2011 of this chapter, beginning with report year 2002, due on or before March 31, 2003.



---

[N] [Order 620, 65 FR 81344, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended by Order 628, 68 FR 269, Jan. 3, 2003; 69 FR 9044, Feb. 26, 2004]




