# § 177.1580   Polycarbonate resins.

Polycarbonate resins may be safely used as articles or components of articles intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food, in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) Polycarbonate resins are polyesters produced by:


(1) The condensation of 4,4′-iso-propylidenediphenol and carbonyl chloride to which may have been added certain optional adjuvant substances required in the production of the resins; or by


(2) The reaction of molten 4,4′-iso-propylidenediphenol with molten diphenyl carbonate in the presence of the disodium salt of 4,4′-isopropylidenediphenol.


(3) The condensation of 4,4′-isopro- pylidenediphenol, carbonyl chloride, and 0.5 percent weight maximum of *a*2,*a*6-bis (6-hydroxy*-m-*tolyl) mesitol to which may have been added certain optional adjuvant substances required in the production of branched polycarbonate resins.


(b) The optional adjuvant substances required in the production of resins produced by the methods described in paragraph (a)(1) and (3) of this section may include substances generally recognized as safe in food, substances used in accordance with a prior sanction or approval, and the following:


(c) Polycarbonate resins shall conform to the specification prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and shall meet the extractives limitations prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(1) *Specification.* Polycarbonate resins can be identified by their characteristic infrared spectrum.


(2) *Extractives limitations.* The polycarbonate resins to be tested shall be ground or cut into small particles that will pass through a U.S. standard sieve No. 6 and that will be held on a U.S. standard sieve No. 10.


(i) Polycarbonate resins, when extracted with distilled water at reflux temperature for 6 hours, shall yield total extractives not to exceed 0.15 percent by weight of the resins.


(ii) Polycarbonate resins, when extracted with 50 percent (by volume) ethyl alcohol in distilled water at reflux temperature for 6 hours, shall yield total extractives not to exceed 0.15 percent by weight of the resins.


(iii) Polycarbonate resins, when extracted with *n-*heptane at reflux temperature for 6 hours, shall yield total extractives not to exceed 0.15 percent by weight of the resins.


(d) Polycarbonate resins may be used in accordance with this section except in infant feeding bottles (baby bottles) and spill-proof cups, including their closures and lids, designed to help train babies and toddlers to drink from cups (sippy cups).



---

[N] [42 FR 14572, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 23227, Apr. 24, 1981; 49 FR 4372, Feb. 6, 1984; 50 FR 14096, Apr. 10, 1985; 53 FR 29656, Aug. 8, 1988; 59 FR 43731, Aug. 25, 1994; 77 FR 41902, July 17, 2012]




