# § 3285.801   Exterior close-up.

(a) Exterior siding and roofing necessary to join all sections of the home must be installed according to the product manufacturer installation instructions and must be fastened in accordance with designs and manufacturer instructions, consistent with §§ 3280.305 and 3280.307 of this chapter. Exterior close-up strips/trim must be fastened securely and sealed with exterior sealant (see figure A to this section).


(b) *Joints and seams.* All joints and seams in exterior wall coverings that were disturbed during location of the home must be made weatherproof.


(c) Prior to installing the siding, the polyethylene sheeting covering exterior walls for transit must be completely removed.


(d) Prior to completing the exterior close-up, any holes in the roofing must be made weatherproof and sealed with a sealant or other material that is suitable for use with the roofing in which the hole is made.


(e) *Mate-line gasket.* The home manufacturer must provide materials and designs for mate-line gaskets or other methods designed to resist the entry of air, water, water vapor, insects, and rodents at all mate-line locations exposed to the exterior (see Figure B to this section).


(f) *Hinged roofs and eaves.* Hinged roofs and eaves must be completed during installation in compliance with all requirements of the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR part 3280) and the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations (24 CFR part 3282). Unless exempted by the following provisions, hinged roofs are also subject to a final inspection for compliance with the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR part 3280) by the IPIA or a qualified independent inspector acceptable to the IPIA. Homes with hinged roofs that are exempted from IPIA inspection are instead to be completed and inspected in accordance with the Manufactured Home Installation Program (24 CFR part 3286). This includes homes:


(1) That are designed to be located in Wind Zone I;


(2) In which the roof pitch of the hinged roof is less than 7:12, including designs incorporating peak cap construction or peak flip construction; and


(3) In which fuel burning appliance flue penetrations are not above the hinge.



---

[N] [72 FR 59362, Oct. 19, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 53731, Sept. 8, 2015]






