# § 273.5   Responsibilities.

(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT&L), and in accordance with DoD Directive 5134.12:


(1) Develops DoD materiel disposition policies, including policies for FEPP.


(2) Oversees the effective implementation of the DoD materiel disposition program.


(3) Approves policy changes as appropriate to support contingency operations.


(4) Approves national organizations for special interest consideration as SEAs, and approve categories of property considered appropriate, usable, and necessary for transfer to SEAs.


(b) The Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)), and in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) Provides agency-level command and control and administers the worldwide Defense Materiel Disposition Program.


(2) Implements guidance issued by the ASD(L&MR) or other organizational elements of the OSD and establishes system concepts and requirements, resource management, program guidance, budgeting and funding, training and career development, management review and analysis, internal control measures, and crime prevention for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.


(3) Chairs the Disposal Policy Working Group (DPWG).


(4) Provides direction to the DLA Disposition Services on implementing the worldwide defense materiel disposition program.


(5) Provides direction to the DLA inventory control points (ICPs) on the cataloging of items in the Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) as outlined in DoD 4100.39-M, “Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) Procedures Manual-Glossary and Volumes 1-16” (available at *whs/directives/corres/html/410039m.html*). This is done to prevent the unauthorized disposition or release of items within DoD, other federal civilian agencies, or release into commerce.


(6) Promotes maximum reuse of FEPP, excess, and surplus property. Pursues all possible avenues to sponsor or endorse reuse of excess DoD property and preclude unnecessary purchases.


(7) Directs the DLA Disposition Services communications with the DoD Components regarding changes in service delivery processes or plans that will affect disposal support provided. In overseas locations, these communications will include geographic Combatant Commanders, U.S. Chiefs of Mission, and the in-country security assistance offices.


(8) Accommodates contingency operation requirements. Directs the DLA support team to determine any needed deviations from standard disposal processing guidance and communicates approved temporary changes to the Military Departments and DLA Disposition Services.


(9) Ensures maximum compatibility between documentation, procedures, codes, and formats used in materiel disposition systems and the Military Departments' supply systems.


(10) Programs, budgets, funds, accounts, allocates and controls personnel, spaces, and other resources for its respective activities.


(11) Annually provides to GSA a report of property transferred to non-federal recipients in accordance with 41 CFR 102-36.295.


(12) Assumes the worldwide disposal of all DoD HP except for those categories specifically designated to remain the responsibility of the Military Department or Defense Agency as described in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.


(13) Ensures property disposal training courses are available (*e.g.*, at DLA Training Center) for all personnel associated with the disposal program.


(14) Ensures DLA Disposition Services follows the DoD disposal hierarchy with landfill disposal as a last resort.


(c) The DoD Components Heads:


(1) Recommend Defense Materiel Disposition Program policy changes to the ASD(L&MR).


(2) Recommend Defense Materiel Disposition Program procedural changes to the Director, DLA, and provide information copies to the ASD(L&MR).


(3) Assist the Director, DLA, upon request, to resolve matters of mutual concern.


(4) Treat the disposal of DoD property as an integral part of DoD Supply Chain Management; ensure that disposal actions and costs are a part of each stage of the supply chain management of items and that disposal of property is a planned event at all levels of their organizations.


(5) Provide the Director, DLA, with mutually agreed-upon data necessary to administer the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.


(6) Participate in the DoD PMRP and promote maximum reutilization of FEPP, excess, and surplus property and fine precious metals for internal use or as GFM.


(7) Nominate to the ASD(L&MR) national organizations for special interest consideration as SEAs; approve schools (non-national organizations) as SEAs; and recommend to the ASD(L&MR) categories of property considered appropriate, usable, and necessary for transfer to SEAs.


(8) Provide administrative and logistics support, including appropriate facilities, for the operations of tenant and related off-site DLA Disposition Services field activities under inter-Service support agreements (ISSAs).


(9) For property not explicitly identified in this part, follow Service-unique regulations to dispose of and maintain accountability of property. Ensure all accountable records associated with the disposal of FEPP, excess, and surplus property are established and updated to reflect supply status and ensure audit ability in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.64, “Accountability and Management of DoD Equipment and Other Accountable Property” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/500064p.pdf*). This requirement also applies to modified processes that may be developed for contingency operations.


(10) Ensure completion of property disposition (reutilization and marketing) training courses, as appropriate.


(11) Administer reclamation programs and accomplish reclamation from excess materiel.


(12) Establish and administer disposal accounts, as jointly agreed to by DLA and the Military Departments, to support the demilitarization (DEMIL) and reclamation functions performed by the Military Departments.


(13) Dispose of surplus merchant vessels or vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more, capable of conversion to merchant use, through the Federal Maritime Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, by forwarding a “Report of Excess Personal Property” Standard Form 120 to GSA, in accordance with the procedures in 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102. For vessels explicitly excluded by 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, follow procedures in DoD 4160.28-M, Volumes 1-3, “Defense Demilitarization: Program Administration, Demilitarization Coding, Procedural Guidance” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028m_vol1.pdf*, *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028m_vol2.pdf*, *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028m_vol3.pdf*), *i.e.*, battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, or submarines.


(14) Dispose of HP specifically designated as requiring DoD Component processing.


(15) Request DLA Disposition Services provide sales services, as needed, for recyclable marketable materials generated as a result of resource recovery programs through the DoD Component QRP in accordance with the procedures in § 273.7.


(16) Consider public donation if applicable before landfill disposal and monitor, with DLA Disposition Services Site personnel, all property sent to landfills to ensure no economically salable or recyclable property is discarded.


(17) Report, accurately identify on approved turn in documents, and turn in all authorized scrap generations to servicing DLA Disposition Services sites.


(18) Update the DoD IUID Registry upon the materiel disposition of uniquely identified items in accordance with the procedures in § 273.9.


(19) Improve disposal policies, training, and procedural implementation among the DoD Components and Federal civilian agencies through membership on the DPWG.




