# ยง 14.50   Definitions.

*Act.* The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504, title II of Pub. L. 96-481, as amended by Pub. L. 99-80. 


*Adjudicative officer.* The Administrative Law Judge, Administrative Judge of the HUD Office of Hearings and Appeals, or other officer designated by the Secretary, who presided at the adversary adjudication.


*Adversary adjudication.* (a) An adjudication under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the United States is represented by counsel or otherwise, but not including an adjudication for the purpose of establishing or fixing a rate or for the purpose of granting or renewing a license; and 


(b) Appeals of decisions of contracting officers made pursuant to section 6 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 605) before agency boards of contract appeals as provided in section 8 of that Act (41 U.S.C. 607). 


*Agency counsel* (a) When the position of the Department is being represented, the attorney or attorneys designated by the Department's General Counsel to represent the Department in a proceeding covered by this part, and 


(b) When the position of another agency of the United States is being represented, the representative as designated by that agency. 


*Department.* The Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the organizational unit within the Department responsible for conducting an adversary adjudication subject to this part. 


*Proceeding.* An adversary adjudication as defined above. 


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 



---

[N] [52 FR 27126, July 17, 1987, as amended at 72 FR 53877, Sept. 20, 2007; 87 FR 8196, Feb. 14, 2022]




