# § 156.156   Residue removal instructions for refillable containers.

The label of each pesticide product packaged in a refillable container must include the residue removal instructions in this section. Instructions must be given for all pesticide products that are distributed or sold in refillable containers, including those that do not require dilution prior to application.


(a) *Timing of the residue removal procedure.* One of the following statements must immediately precede the instructions required in paragraph (b) of this section and must be consistent with the instructions in paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) “Cleaning the container before final disposal is the responsibility of the person disposing of the container. Cleaning before refilling is the responsibility of the refiller.”


(2) “Pressure rinsing the container before final disposal is the responsibility of the person disposing of the container. Cleaning before refilling is the responsibility of the refiller.”


(b) *Residue removal instructions prior to container disposal.* (1) Instructions for cleaning each refillable container prior to disposal are required. The residue removal instructions must be appropriate for the characteristics and formulation of the pesticide product and must be adequate to protect human health and the environment.


(2) Subject to meeting the standard in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the statement on residue removal instructions could include any one of the following:


(i) The refilling residue removal procedure developed by the registrant for the pesticide product.


(ii) Standard industry practices for cleaning refillable containers.


(iii) For pesticides that require dilution prior to application, the following statement: “To clean the container before final disposal, empty the remaining contents from this container into application equipment or a mix tank. Fill the container about 10 percent full with water. Agitate vigorously or recirculate water with the pump for 2 minutes. Pour or pump rinsate into application equipment or rinsate collection system. Repeat this rinsing procedure two more times.”


(iv) Any other statement the registrant considers appropriate.




