# ยง 1808.401   Application requirements.

(a) *Qualified Issuer Application.* A Qualified Issuer applicant shall provide all required information in its Qualified Issuer Application to establish that it meets all criteria for designation as a Qualified Issuer and can carry out all Qualified Issuer responsibilities and requirements including, but not limited to, information that demonstrates that the applicant has the appropriate expertise, capacity, and experience and is qualified to make, administer and service Bond Loans for Eligible Purposes. After receipt of a Qualified Issuer Application, the CDFI Fund may request additional information and clarifying or technical information on the materials submitted as part of the Qualified Issuer Application. The CDFI Fund will provide the template for the Qualified Issuer Application.


(b) *Guarantee Application.* (1) A Qualified Issuer shall provide all required information in its Guarantee Application to establish that it meets all criteria set forth in this interim rule to receive a Guarantee and can carry out all Guarantee requirements including, but not limited to, information that demonstrates that the Qualified Issuer has the appropriate expertise, capacity, and experience and is qualified to make, administer and service Bond Loans for Eligible Purposes. The Guarantee Application shall include a Capital Distribution Plan and a Secondary Capital Distribution Plan for each potential Eligible CDFI, as well as any other requirements set forth in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability or as may be required by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion for the evaluation and selection of Guarantee applicants. After receipt of a Guarantee Application, the CDFI Fund may request additional information and clarifying or technical information on the materials submitted as part of the Guarantee Application. The CDFI Fund will provide the template for the Guarantee Application.


(2) The Capital Distribution Plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:


(i) Statement of Proposed Sources and Uses of Funds;


(ii) For the Qualified Issuer and each Certified CDFI seeking a Bond Loan, an organizational capacity statement, a plan that describes how the proposed Bond Loan will meet Eligible Purposes, and a description of Credit Enhancement, if any;


(iii) A Secondary Capital Distribution Plan, if applicable; and


(iv) Assurances and certifications that not less than 100 percent of the principal amount of Bonds will be used to make Bond Loans for Eligible Purposes beginning on the Bond Issue Date, and that Secondary Loans shall be made as set forth in subsection 1808.307(b).




