# § 761.202   EPA identification numbers.

(a) *General.* Any generator, commercial storer, transporter, or disposer of PCB waste who is required to have an EPA identification number under this subpart must notify EPA of his/her PCB waste handling activities, using the notification procedures and form described in § 761.205. EPA will confirm the EPA identification number of facilities already assigned one, and will assign an EPA identification number to facilities that do not have one. 


(b) *Prohibitions.* After June 4, 1990: 


(1) A generator of PCB waste shall not: 


(i) Process, store, dispose of, transport, or offer for transportation PCB waste without having received an EPA identification number from the Agency. A generator of PCB waste who is exempted from notification under § 761.205(c)(1) or who notifies EPA in a timely manner under § 761.205(c)(2)(i), but has not yet received a unique identification number, shall be regarded as having received from EPA the identification number “40 CFR PART 761.” 


(ii) Offer the PCB waste to transporters, disposers, or commercial storers of PCB waste who have not received an EPA identification number. 


(2) A transporter of PCB waste shall not: 


(i) Transport PCB waste without having received an EPA identification number from EPA. 


(ii) Deliver PCB waste to transporters, disposers, or commercial storers of PCB waste that have not received an EPA identification number. 


(3) A commercial storer of PCB waste shall not accept any PCB waste for storage without having received an EPA identification number from EPA. 


(4) A disposer of PCB waste shall not accept any PCB waste for disposal without having received an EPA identification number from EPA. A disposer of PCB waste who owns more than one disposal facility or mobile treatment unit shall not accept waste unless the disposer has received an EPA identification number for each facility or mobile unit. 


(c) *PCB waste handled prior to effective date of this subpart.* Generators (other than generators exempt from notification under § 761.205(c)(1)), commercial storers, transporters, and disposers of PCB waste who are required to have EPA identification numbers under this subpart, and who were engaged in PCB waste handling activities on or prior to February 5, 1990, are not subject to the prohibitions of paragraph (b) of this section if they have applied for an EPA identification number in accordance with the applicable notification procedures of § 761.205. Such persons shall use the EPA identification number “40 CFR PART 761,” or a number assigned to the persons by EPA or a State under RCRA, until EPA issues to such persons a specific identification number under § 761.205(a), (b), or (c). 


(d) *PCB waste first handled after effective date of this subpart.* Generators (other than generators exempt from notification under § 761.205(c)(1)), commercial storers, transporters, and disposers of PCB waste who are required to have EPA identification numbers under this subpart, and who first engage in PCB waste activities after February 5, 1990, are subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (b) of this section.




