# § 21.334   Election of payment at the Chapter 30 rate.

(a) *Election.* When the veteran elects payment of an allowance at the chapter 30 rate, the effective dates for commencement, reduction and termination of the allowance shall be in accordance with §§ 21.7130 through 21.7135 and § 21.7050 under chapter 30.


(b) *Election of payment at the Chapter 30 rate subsequent to induction into a rehabilitation program.* Election of payment at the Chapter 30 rate subsequent to induction into training is permissible under provisions of § 21.264 (a) and (b). The effective date of the election is the latest of the following dates: 


(1) The commencing date determined under § 21.7131 in the case of a veteran who has elected payment at the chapter 30 rate; or 


(2) The day following the end of the period for which VA paid tuition, fees or other program charges under this Chapter.


(c) *Reelection of subsistence allowance subsequent to induction.* If a veteran reelects subsistence allowance under provisions of § 21.264(b) of this part, the effective date of change is earliest of the following: 


(1) The date following completion of the term, semester, quarter, or other period of instruction in which the veteran is currently enrolled; 


(2) The veteran's Chapter 30 delimiting date;


(3) The day after exhaustion of Chapter 30 entitlement; or 


(4) The day following the date of a VA determination that failure to approve reelection would prevent the veteran from continuing the rehabilitation program.


(d) *Election or reelection during leave or between periods of instruction*—(1) *Payment at the Chapter 30 rate.* If an otherwise eligible veteran elects payment at the Chapter 30 rate during a period between periods of instruction, the effective date of the election shall be the first day of the next period of instruction.


(2) *Subsistence allowance.* If an otherwise eligible veteran reelects subsistence allowance during leave or between periods of instruction following election of payment at the Chapter 30 rate, the effective date of the change will be the date of the reelection or the beginning of the next period of training, whichever is to the veteran's benefit.


(e) *Effect of Chapter 34 program termination.* (1) Since Chapter 34 benefits are not payable beyond December 31, 1989, any previous election of benefits at that rate is terminated as of that date;


(2) A veteran entitled to chapter 30 benefits based on his or her chapter 34 eligibility as of December 31, 1989, and whose election of chapter 34 rates terminated as of the date under paragraph (e)(1) of this section must, if the individual desires payment at the chapter 30 rate, elect such payment.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 4284, Jan. 30, 1989, 54 FR 13522, Apr. 4, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992]




