# § 721.11755   Poly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl), .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, polymer with 1,1′-methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene], caprolactam-blocked.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl), .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, polymer with 1,1′-methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene], caprolactam-blocked (P-18-340; CAS RN 2247074-17-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(3) and (7), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), and (g)(1) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: respiratory sensitization; skin sensitization; reproductive toxicity; specific target organ toxicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than for one component thermoset elastomer manufacture. It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance without the use of a packed tower scrubber that removes at least 95 percent of the substance prior to release.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 87351, Dec. 18, 2023]






