# ยง 910.521   Management decision.

(a) *General.* The management decision must clearly state whether or not the audit finding is sustained, the reasons for the decision, and the expected auditee action to repay disallowed costs, make financial adjustments, or take other action. If the auditee has not completed corrective action, a timetable for follow-up should be given. Prior to issuing the management decision, the Federal agency may request additional information or documentation from the auditee, including a request for auditor assurance related to the documentation, as a way of mitigating disallowed costs. The management decision should describe any appeal process available to the auditee. While not required, DOE agency may also issue a management decision on findings relating to the financial statements (if they were available) which are required to be reported in accordance with GAGAS.


(b) As provided in ยง 910.513 Responsibilities, paragraph (c)(3), DOE is responsible for issuing a management decision for findings that relate to DOE awards it makes to for-profit entities.


(c) Not applicable.


(d) *Time requirements.* DOE must issue a management decision within six months of acceptance of the audit report. The auditee must initiate and proceed with corrective action as rapidly as possible and corrective action should begin no later than upon receipt of the audit report.


(e) *Reference numbers.* Management decisions must include the reference numbers the auditor assigned to each audit finding in accordance with ยง 910.516 Audit findings paragraph (c).




