# § 71.10   Permitted disinfectants.

(a) Disinfectants permitted for use on cars, boats, and other vehicles, premises, and cages and other equipment are as follows: 


(1) “Cresylic disinfectant” in the proportion of at least 4 fluid ounces to 1 gallon of water. 


(2) Liquefied phenol (U.S.P. strength 87 percent phenol) in the proportion of at least 6 fluid ounces to 1 gallon of water. 


(3) Chlorinated lime (U.S.P. strength, 30 percent available chlorine) in the proportion of 1 pound to 3 gallons of water. 


(4) Sodium hydroxide (Lye) prepared in a fresh solution in the proportion of not less than 1 pound avoirdupois of sodium hydroxide of not less than 95 percent purity to 6 gallons of water, or one 13
1/2 ounce can to 5 gallons of water. Due to the extreme caustic nature of sodium hydroxide solution, precautionary measures such as the wearing of rubber gloves, boots, raincoat, and goggles should be observed. An acid solution such as vinegar shall be kept readily available in case any of the sodium hydroxide solution should come in contact with the body. 


(5) Disinfectants which are registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 135 *et seq.*), with tuberculocidal claims, as disinfectants for general use, may be used for the purpose of this part in accordance with directions on the labels accepted in connection with their registration. However, disinfectants which fall in this category are not permitted for use in outbreaks of foreign animal diseases unless in specific cases such use is approved in advance by the Administrator. 


(b) The use of “cresylic disinfectant” is permitted subject to the following conditions: 


(1) The manufacturer thereof shall have obtained specific permission from APHIS for the use of his products in official disinfection. To obtain such permission manufacturers shall first submit a sample of at least 8 ounces for examination, together with a statement of the formula employed and a guaranty that the product will be maintained of a quality uniform with the sample submitted. 


(2) To prevent confusion, the product of each manufacturer and distributor shall bear a distinctive trade name or brand, together with the name of the manufacturer or distributor. 


(3) The product shall at all times conform to specifications for composition and performance issued by the Administrator. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 32 FR 19157, Dec. 20, 1967; 37 FR 8864, May 2, 1972; 37 FR 9460, May 11, 1972; 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 61 FR 56883, Nov. 5, 1996] 




