# ยง 316.2   Description of bonds.

(a) *General.* Definitive (paper) Series E bonds bear a facsimile of the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury and of the Seal of the Department of the Treasury. They were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.


(b) *Denominations and prices.* Series E bonds were issued on a discount basis. The denominations and issue prices were:


(c) *Inscription and issue.* At the time of issue, the issuing agent:


(1) Inscribed on the face of each bond the name, social security number and address of the owner, and the name of the beneficiary, if any, or the name, social security number and address of the first-named coowner and the name of the other coowner (the inscription of the social security number was required for bonds issued on or after January 1, 1974);


(2) Entered the issue date in the upper right-hand portion of the bond; and


(3) Imprinted the agent's validation indicia in the lower right-hand portion to show the date the bond was actually inscribed. A bond was valid only if an authorized issuing agent received payment therefor and duly inscribed, dated and imprinted validation indicia on the bond.


(d) *Term.* A Series E bond was dated as of the first day of the month in which payment of the purchase price was received by an agent authorized to issue the bonds. This date is the issue date. The bonds mature as shown in ยง 316.8. The bond may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity or the end of any extended maturity period (see paragraph (a) of ยง 316.8). The bond may be redeemed at the owner's option at any time at fixed redemption values.


(e) *Investment yield (interest).* The investment yield (interest) on Series E bonds is defined in paragraphs (c) and (d) of ยง 316.8. Beginning in the third month from its issue date, a bond increased in redemption value on the first day of each month, up to and including the thirtieth month from issue date, so as to provide for such period an investment yield of no less than 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually. Thereafter, its redemption value increases at the beginning of each successive half-year period. The interest is paid as part of the redemption value.



---

[N] [57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]




