# ยง 516.6   Appearance as counsel.

(a) *General.* Military personnel on active duty and DA civilian personnel will not appear as counsel before any civilian court or in any preliminary proceeding, for example, deposition, in litigation in which the Army has an interest without the prior written approval of TJAG, except under the following conditions:


(1) The appearance is authorized by this regulation.


(2) The individual is a party to the proceeding.


(3) The appearance is authorized under an expanded legal assistance program (See AR 27-3).


(4) The individual is a judge advocate assigned or detailed by TJAG to DOJ to represent the United States in civil or criminal cases, for example, a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney, or an attorney assigned to Litigation Division.


(b) *Procedure.* All requests for appearance as counsel will be made through Litigation Division to the Personnel, Plans and Training Office, OTJAG. Requests for DA military or civilian attorneys to appear in any civilian court or proceeding on behalf of a soldier who is also facing UCMJ action will be delivered to the SJA, legal adviser, or Regional Defense Counsel, as appropriate. The SJA or legal adviser will forward the request to Litigation Division with an evaluation of the case and recommendation. Regional Defense Counsel should send requests for USATDS counsel to Chief, USATDS, who will forward the request to Litigation Division. Privileged or otherwise sensitive client information should only be submitted through USATDS channels.




