# § 1700.101   Definitions.

*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service, or designee or successor.


*Applicant* means an entity that is eligible for an eligible program under that program's eligibility criteria.


*Borrower* means any organization that has an outstanding loan or loan guarantee made by RUS for a program purpose.


*Completed application* means an application that includes the elements specified by the rules for the applicable eligible program in form and substance satisfactory to RUS.


*ConAct* means the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1921 *et seq.*).


*Credit support* means equity, cash requirements, letters of credit, and other financial commitments provided in support of a loan or loan guarantee.


*Eligible community* means a community as defined by 7 CFR 1700.103.


*Eligible program* means a program as defined by 7 CFR 1700.102.


*Financial assistance* means a grant, combination loan and grant, loan guarantee or loan.


*Financial feasibility* means the ability of a project or enterprise to meet operating expenses, financial performance metrics, such as debt service coverage requirements and return on investment, and the general ability to repay debt and sustain continued operations at least through the life of the RUS loan or loan guarantee.


*Matching fund* requirements means the applicant's financial or other required contribution to the project for approved purposes.


*Nonduplication* generally means a restriction on financing projects for services in a geographic area where reasonably adequate service already exists as defined by the applicable program.


*Project* means the activity for which financial assistance has been provided.


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


*RUS* means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, successor to the Rural Electrification Administration.


*Substantially underserved trust area* means a community in trust land with respect to which the Administrator determines has a high need for the benefits of an eligible program.


*Trust land* means “trust land” as defined in section 3765 of title 38, United States Code as determined by the Administrator under 7 CFR 1700.104.


*Underserved* means an area or community lacking an adequate level or quality of service in an eligible program, including areas of duplication of service provided by an existing provider where such provider has not provided or will not provide adequate level or quality of service.




