# ยง 1091.205   Supplemental oral response.

(a) If the respondent makes a timely request in a response under ยง 1091.203 for the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response, the Director shall issue an order setting forth the date, time, and general information relating to the conduct of a supplemental oral response.


(b) There shall be no discovery permitted or witnesses called in connection with a supplemental oral response.


(c) If a respondent is a corporate or other entity, and not a natural person, the respondent shall be represented in any supplemental oral response by:


(1) An officer, managing or general member, or partner authorized to represent the respondent; or


(2) An attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State.


(d) If a respondent is a natural person, the respondent shall be represented in any supplemental oral response by:


(1) The respondent personally; or


(2) An attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State.


(e) The Director shall cause an audio recording of a supplemental oral response to be made by a court reporter or other designated person. A respondent may purchase a copy or transcript of the recording at the respondent's own expense.


(f) The initiating official may participate in any supplemental oral response conducted under this section.


(g) A respondent's failure to participate in a supplemental oral response scheduled by the Director shall constitute the respondent's waiver of the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response.






