# ยง 35.1200   Purpose and applicability.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this subpart M is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in housing occupied by families receiving tenant-based rental assistance. Such assistance includes tenant-based rental assistance under the Section 8 certificate program, the Section 8 voucher program, the HOME program, the Shelter Plus Care program, the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program, and the Indian Housing Block Grant program. *Tenant-based rental assistance* means rental assistance that is not attached to the structure.


(b) *Applicability.* (1) This subpart applies only to dwelling units occupied or to be occupied by families or households that have one or more children of less than 6 years of age, common areas servicing such dwelling units, and exterior painted surfaces associated with such dwelling units or common areas. Common areas servicing a dwelling unit include those areas through which residents pass to gain access to the unit and other areas frequented by resident children of less than 6 years of age, including on-site play areas and child care facilities.


(2) For the purposes of the Section 8 tenant-based certificate program and the Section 8 voucher program:


(i) The requirements of this subpart are applicable where an initial or periodic inspection occurs on or after September 15, 2000; and 


(ii) The PHA shall be the designated party.


(3) For the purposes of formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901 *et seq.*):


(i) The requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000; and


(ii) The grantee shall be the designated party.


(4) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the HOPWA Program and the Shelter Plus Care program (42 U.S.C. 11402-11407) tenant-based rental assistance component:


(i) The requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded pursuant to Notices of Funding Availability published on or after September 15, 2000; and 


(ii) The grantee shall be the designated party.


(5) For the purposes of the HOME program:


(i) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to funds which are committed in accordance with ยง 92.2 of this title before September 15, 2000; and


(ii) The participating jurisdiction shall be the designated party.


(6) For the purposes of the Indian Housing Block Grant program:


(i) The requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000; and


(ii) The IHBG recipient shall be the designated party.


(7) The housing agency, grantee, participating jurisdiction, or IHBG recipient may assign to a subrecipient or other entity the responsibilities of the designated party in this subpart.



---

[N] [64 FR 50216, Sept. 15, 1999; 65 FR 3387, Jan. 21, 2000]




