# § 1070.18   Responses to requests for CFPB records.

(a) *Acknowledgements of requests.* Upon receipt of a request, the CFPB will assign to the request a unique tracking number. The CFPB will send an acknowledgement letter to the requester by mail or email within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the request. The acknowledgment letter will contain the following information:


(1) The applicable request tracking number;


(2) The date of receipt of the request, as determined in accordance with § 1070.14(d), as well as the date when the requester may expect a response;


(3) A brief statement identifying the subject matter of the request; and


(4) A confirmation, with respect to any fees that may apply to the request pursuant to § 1070.22, that the requester has sought a waiver or reduction in such fees, has agreed to pay any and all applicable fees, or has specified an upper limit that the requester is willing to pay in fees to process the request.


(b) *Initial determination to grant or deny a request.* (1) The officer designated in § 1070.15(b), or his or her delegate, shall make initial determinations either to grant or to deny in whole or in part requests for records.


(2) If the request is granted in full or in part, and if the requester requests a copy of the records requested, then a copy of the records shall be mailed or emailed to the requester in the requested format, to the extent the records are readily producible in the requested format. The CFPB shall also send the requester a statement of the applicable fees, either at the time of the determination or shortly thereafter, and inform the requester of the availability of its FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.


(3) In the case of a request for inspection, the requester shall be notified in writing of the determination, when and where the requested records may be inspected, and of the fees incurred in complying with the request. The CFPB shall then promptly make the records available for inspection at the time and place stated, in a manner that will not interfere with CFPB's operations and will not exclude other persons from making inspections. The requester shall not be permitted to remove the records from the room where inspection is made. If, after making inspection, the requester desires copies of all or a portion of the requested records, copies shall be furnished upon payment of the established fees prescribed by § 1070.22. Fees may be charged for search and review time as stated in § 1070.22.


(4) If it is determined that the request for records should be denied in whole or in part, the requester shall be notified by mail or by email. The letter of notification shall:


(i) State the exemptions relied upon in denying the request;


(ii) If technically feasible, indicate the amount of information deleted and the exemptions under which the deletion is made at the place in the record where such deletion is made (unless providing such indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption relied upon to deny such material);


(iii) Set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official;


(iv) Advise the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Bureau's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Governmental Information Services;


(v) Advise the requester of the right to administrative appeal in accordance with § 1070.21; and


(vi) Specify the official or office to which such appeal shall be submitted.


(5) If it is determined, after a reasonable search for records, that no responsive records have been found to exist, the requester shall be notified in writing or by email. The notification shall also advise the requester of the right to administratively appeal the CFPB's determination that no responsive records exist (*i.e.,* to challenge the adequacy of the CFPB's search for responsive records) in accordance with § 1070.21. The response shall specify the official or office to which the appeal shall be submitted for review.


(c) *Resolution of disputes.* The CFPB is committed to efficiently resolving disputes during the request process. The following resources are available to requesters to resolve any disputes that may arise during the request process:


(1) *FOIA Public Liaison.* Any request related questions or concerns should be directed to the FOIA Public Liaison, who is responsible for reducing delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes.


(2) *Dispute resolution.* The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) offers non-compulsory, non-binding dispute resolution services to help resolve FOIA disputes. A requester may contact OGIS directly at Office of Government Information Services, National Archives and Records Administration, Room 2510, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, Email: *ogis@nara.gov,* Phone: (301) 837-1996, Fax: (301) 837-0348. This information is provided as a public service only. By providing this information, the CFPB does not commit to refer disputes to OGIS.


(d) *Format of records disclosed.* (1) The CFPB will provide records in the requested format if the records can readily be reproduced from the original file to that specific format.


(2) The CFPB may charge fees associated with converting records or files into the requested format in accordance with § 1070.22.




