# § 21.264   Election of payment at the 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 educational assistance rate or election of payment of Post-9/11 subsistence allowance.

(a) *Election of chapter 30 educational assistance rate.* (1) *Eligibility.* A veteran who applies for, and is found entitled to training or education under Chapter 31, may elect to receive payment at the educational allowance rate and other assistance furnished under Chapter 30, for similar training in lieu of a subsistence allowance, provided the following criteria are met: 


(i) The veteran has remaining eligibility for, and entitlement to educational assistance under Chapter 30; 


(ii) The veteran enrolls in a program of education or training approved for benefits under Chapter 30; 


(iii) The program of education is part of an IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) approved by VA.


(2) *Reelection of subsistence allowance.* Reelection of payment of benefits at the Chapter 31 subsistence allowance rate may be made only after completion of a term, quarter, semester, or other period of instruction unless: 


(i) Chapter 30 eligibility or entitlement ends earlier; 


(ii) Failure to approve immediate reelection would prevent the veteran from continuing in the rehabilitation program.


(3) *Services precluded.* A veteran entitled to vocational rehabilitation training or education who elects payment at the educational assistance rate payable under Chapter 30 shall be provided the same training and rehabilitation services as other veterans under Chapter 31, but may not be provided: 


(i) Subsistence allowances; 


(ii) Loans from the revolving fund loan; 


(iii) Payment of costs for: 


(A) Vocational and other training services; 


(B) Supplies; or 


(C) Individualized tutorial assistance.


(4) *Chapter 30 provisions applicable.* A veteran who has elected payment at the Chapter 30 educational assistance rate must meet the same terms and conditions as other veterans pursuing similar training under these programs.


(b) *Election of payment of Post-9/11 subsistence allowance*—(1) *Eligibility.* Effective August 1, 2011, a veteran who applies and is eligible for training or education under chapter 31 may elect to receive payment of the *Post-9/11 subsistence allowance* under § 21.260(c) in lieu of a subsistence allowance under § 21.260(b), provided the veteran has remaining eligibility for, and entitlement to, educational assistance under chapter 33, Post-9/11 GI Bill.


(2) *Reelection of subsistence allowance under § 21.260(b).* Reelection of payment of benefits at the chapter 31 subsistence allowance rate under § 21.260(b) may be made only after completion of a term, quarter, semester, or other period of instruction unless:


(i) Chapter 33 eligibility or entitlement ends earlier; or


(ii) Failure to approve immediate reelection would prevent the veteran from continuing in the rehabilitation program.


(3) *Services under chapter 31.* A veteran who elects payment of the *Post-9/11 subsistence allowance* remains entitled to all other services and assistance under chapter 31.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 4283, Jan. 30, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992; 76 FR 45704, Aug. 1, 2011]




