# 5.205   Special situations.

(a) *Research and development (R&D) advance notices.* Contracting officers may transmit to the GPE advance notices of their interest in potential R&D programs whenever market research does not produce a sufficient number of concerns to obtain adequate competition. Advance notices must not be used where security considerations prohibit such publication. Advance notices will enable potential sources to learn of R&D programs and provide these sources with an opportunity to submit information which will permit evaluation of their capabilities. Contracting officers must consider potential sources which respond to advance notices for a subsequent solicitation. Advanced notices must be entitled “Research and Development Sources Sought” and include the name and telephone number of the contracting officer or other contracting activity official from whom technical details of the project can be obtained. This will enable sources to submit information for evaluation of their R&D capabilities. Contracting officers must synopsize (see 5.201) all subsequent solicitations for R&D contracts, including those resulting from a previously synopsized advance notice, unless one of the exceptions in 5.202 applies.


(b) *Federally Funded Research and Development Centers.* Before establishing a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) (see Part 35) or before changing its basic purpose and mission, the sponsor must transmit at least three notices over a 90-day period to the GPE and the _Federal Register,_ indicating the agency's intention to sponsor an FFRDC or change the basic purpose and mission of an FFRDC. The notice must indicate the scope and nature of the effort to be performed and request comments. Notice is not required where the action is required by law. 


(c) *Special notices.* Contracting officers may transmit to the GPE special notices of procurement matters such as business fairs, long-range procurement estimates, prebid or preproposal conferences, meetings, and the availability of draft solicitations or draft specifications for review.


(d) *Architect-engineering services.* Contracting officers must publish notices of intent to contract for architect-engineering services as follows:


(1) Except when exempted by 5.202, contracting officers must transmit to the GPE a synopsis of each proposed contract action for which the total fee (including phases and options) is expected to exceed $25,000. 


(2) When the total fee is expected to exceed $15,000 but not exceed $25,000, the contracting officer must comply with 5.101(a)(2). When the proposed contract action is not required to be synopsized under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the contracting officer must display a notice of the solicitation or a copy of the solicitation in a public place at the contracting office. Other optional publicizing methods are authorized in accordance with 5.101(b).


(e) *Public-private competitions under OMB Circular A-76.* (1) The contracting officer shall make a formal public announcement for each streamlined or standard competition. The public announcement shall include, at a minimum, the agency, agency component, location, type of competition (streamlined or standard), activity being competed, incumbent service providers, number of Government personnel performing the activity, name of the Competitive Sourcing Official, name of the contracting officer, name of the Agency Tender Official, and projected end date of the competition.


(2) The contracting officer shall announce the end of the streamlined or standard competition by making a formal public announcement of the performance decision. (See OMB Circular A-76.)


(f) *Section 8(a) competitive acquisition.* When a requirement is being considered for competitive acquisition limited to eligible 8(a) participants under subpart 19.8, the contracting officer must transmit a synopsis of the proposed contract action to the GPE. The synopsis may be transmitted to the GPE concurrent with submission of the agency offering (see 19.804-2) to the Small Business Administration (SBA). The synopsis should also include information—


(1) Advising that the acquisition is being offered for competition limited to eligible 8(a) participants;


(2) Specifying the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code;


(3) Advising that eligibility to participate may be restricted to 8(a) participants in either the developmental stage or the developmental and transitional stages; and


(4) Encouraging interested 8(a) participants to request a copy of the solicitation as expeditiously as possible since the solicitation will be issued without further notice upon SBA acceptance of the requirement for the section 8(a) program.


(g) *Notifications to the public regarding consolidation, bundling, or substantial bundling.* (1) For the requirement to publish a notification of consolidation or substantial bundling of contract requirements, see 7.107-5(c) and (d).


(2) The agency is encouraged to provide notification of the rationale for any bundled requirement to the GPE before issuing the solicitation of any bundled requirement (see 7.107-5(b)).


(h) *Notice regarding timely definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts.* When the contracting officer anticipates award of a contract to a small business pursuant to a solicitation for construction, the contracting officer must transmit in the solicitation notice on the GPE information regarding definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts (see 36.211).





---

[N] [66 FR 27411, May 16, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 43856, July 24, 2003; 68 FR 56678, Oct. 1, 2003; 71 FR 20299, Apr. 19, 2006; 73 FR 10961, Feb. 28, 2008; 75 FR 53132, Aug. 30, 2010; 81 FR 67769, Sept. 30, 2016; 82 FR 4726, Jan. 13, 2017; 85 FR 40076, July 2, 2020; 86 FR 61040, Nov. 4, 2021; 87 FR 58231, Sept. 23, 2022]




