# ยง 141.202   

(a) *Which violations or situations require a Tier 1 public notice?* Table 1 of this section lists the violation categories and other situations requiring a Tier 1 public notice. Appendix A to this subpart identifies the tier assignment for each specific violation or situation. 


(b) *When is the Tier 1 public notice to be provided?* What additional steps are required? Public water systems must: 


(1) Provide a public notice as soon as practical but no later than 24 hours after the system learns of the violation or situation requiring Tier 1 public notice;




(2) Initiate consultation with the primacy agency as soon as practical, but no later than 24 hours after the public water system learns of the violation or situation, to determine additional public notice requirements; and 


(3) Comply with any additional public notification requirements (including any repeat notices or direction on the duration of the posted notices) that are established as a result of the consultation with the primacy agency. Such requirements may include the timing, form, manner, frequency, and content of repeat notices (if any) and other actions designed to reach all persons served. 


(c) *What is the form and manner of the public notice?* Public water systems must provide the notice within 24 hours in a form and manner reasonably calculated to reach all persons served. The form and manner used by the public water system are to fit the specific situation, but must be designed to reach residential, transient, and non-transient users of the water system. In order to reach all persons served, water systems are to use, at a minimum, one or more of the following forms of delivery: 


(1) Appropriate broadcast media (such as radio and television); 


(2) Posting of the notice in conspicuous locations throughout the area served by the water system; 


(3) Hand delivery of the notice to persons served by the water system; or 


(4) Another delivery method approved in writing by the primacy agency.



---

[N] [65 FR 26035, May 4, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 1836, Jan. 14, 2002; 71 FR 65652, Nov. 8, 2006; 78 FR 10350, Feb. 13, 2013; 86 FR 4309, Jan. 15, 2021; 89 FR 86663, Oct. 30, 2024] 




