# ยง 114.3   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part:


*Central repository.* A headquarters office, designated by Service regulation, to serve as a clearinghouse of information on a confinee's status and to collect and report data on the delivery of victim and witness assistance, including notification of confinee status changes.


*Confinement facility victim witness assistance coordinator.* A staff member at a military confinement facility who is responsible for notifying victims and witnesses of changes in a confinee's status and reporting those notifications to the central repository.


*Court proceeding.* A preliminary hearing held pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ; a hearing under Article 39(a) of the UCMJ; a court-martial; a military presentencing hearing; or a military appellate hearing. Conferences, such as those between attorneys and the military judge pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial (R.C.M.) 802 or between attorneys and preliminary hearing officers pursuant to Article 32, are not court proceedings for purposes of this part. If all or part of a court proceeding has been closed to the public by the military judge, preliminary hearing officer, or other official, the victims and witnesses will still be notified of the closed hearing as provided in this part, and of the reasons for the closure. In such a case, the military judge, preliminary hearing officer, or other official may place reasonable limits on the reasons disclosed, if such limits are necessary to protect the safety of any person, the fairness of the proceeding, or are otherwise in the interests of national security.


*DoD Component responsible official.* Person designated by each DoD Component head to be primarily responsible in the DoD Component for coordinating, implementing, and managing the victim and witness assistance program established by this part.


*Equal opportunity.* The right of all persons to participate in, and benefit from, programs and activities for which they are qualified. These programs and activities will be free from social, personal, or institutional barriers that prevent people from rising to the highest level of responsibility possible. Persons will be evaluated on individual merit, fitness, and capability, regardless of race, color, sex, national origin, or religion.


*Local responsible official.* Person designated by the DoD Component responsible official who has primary responsibility for identifying victims and witnesses of crime and for coordinating the delivery of services described in this part through a multidisciplinary approach. The position or billet of the local responsible official will be designated in writing by Service regulation. The local responsible official may delegate responsibilities in accordance with this part.


*Local Victim and Witness Assistance Council.* A regular forum held at the DoD installation, or regional command level, that promotes efficiencies, coordinates victim assistance-related programs, and assesses the implementation of victim assistance standards and victim assistance-related programs, in accordance with this part, DoD Instruction 6400.07, and any other applicable Service guidance.


*Military Department Clemency and Parole Board.* In accordance with DoD Instruction 1325.07, a board which assists the Military Department Secretary as the primary authority for administration and execution of clemency, parole, and mandatory supervised release policy and programs.


*Military services.* Refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Reserve Components, which include the Army and Air National Guards of the United States.


*Protected communication.* (1) Any lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an IG.


(2) A communication in which a member of the Armed Forces communicates information that the member reasonably believes evidences a violation of law or regulation, including a law or regulation prohibiting sexual harassment or unlawful discrimination, gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds or other resources, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, when such communication is made to any of the following:


(i) A Member of Congress, an IG, or a member of a DoD audit, inspection, investigation, or law enforcement organization.


(ii) Any person or organization in the chain of command; or any other person designated pursuant to regulations or other established administrative procedures to receive such communications.


*Reprisal.* Taking or threatening to take an unfavorable personnel action, or withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action, for making or preparing to make a protected communication.


*Restricted reporting.* Defined in 32 CFR part 103.


*Special victim investigation and prosecution (SVIP) capability.* A distinct, recognizable group of appropriately skilled professionals, consisting of specially trained and selected military criminal investigative organization (MCIO) investigators, judge advocates, victim witness assistance personnel, and administrative paralegal support personnel who work collaboratively to:


(1) Investigate allegations of adult sexual assault, domestic violence involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, and child abuse involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm.


(2) Provide support for the victims of such covered offenses.


*Special victim offenses.* The designated criminal offenses of sexual assault, domestic violence involving sexual assault, and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, and child abuse involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, in violation of the UCMJ. Sexual assault includes offenses under Articles 120 (rape and sexual assault in general), 120b (rape and sexual assault of a child), and 120c (other sexual misconduct), or forcible sodomy under Article 125 (before January 1, 2019) of the UCMJ or attempts to commit such offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ. Aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, in relation to domestic violence and child abuse cases, includes an offense as specified under Article 128 of the UCMJ (assault). The Military Services and National Guard Bureau may deem other UCMJ offenses appropriate for SVIP support, based on the facts and circumstances of specific cases, and the needs of victims.


*Special Victims' Counsel/Victims' Legal Counsel (SVC/VLC).* Legal counsel provided to assist eligible victims of alleged sex-related offenses in violation of Articles 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, and 125 (before January 1, 2019) of the UCMJ and attempts to commit any of these offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ (or other offenses as defined by the Military Services), in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044, 1044e, and 1565b; section 1716 of Public Law 113-66; and section 533 of Public Law 113-291.


*Specially trained prosecutors.* Experienced judge advocates detailed by Military Department Judge Advocates Generals (TJAGs), the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or other appropriate authority to litigate or assist with the prosecution of special victim cases and provide advisory support to MCIO investigators and responsible legal offices. Before specially trained prosecutors are detailed, their Service TJAG, Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or other appropriate authority has determined they have the necessary training, maturity, and advocacy and leadership skills to carry out those duties.


*Unrestricted reporting.* Defined in 32 CFR part 103.


*Victim.* A person who has suffered direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a crime committed in violation of the UCMJ. Victim assistance is limited to individuals eligible for military legal assistance under 10 U.S.C. 1044 and 1044e, and as further prescribed by the Military Departments' and National Guard Bureau's policies. Federal Departments and State and local agencies, as entities, are not eligible for services available to individual victims.


*Victim assistance personnel.* Personnel who are available to provide support and assistance to victims of alleged crimes consistent with their assigned responsibilities and in accordance with this part. They include part-time, full-time, collateral duty, and other authorized individuals, and may be domestic violence or sexual assault prevention and response coordinators (to include unit and uniformed victim advocates), Sexual Assault Response Coordinators, victim-witness assistance personnel, or military equal opportunity advisors.


*Victim assistance-related programs.* The SAPR Program; FAP; and the VWAP. A complainant under the DoD MEO Program may be referred by the MEO office to one of the victim assistance-related programs for additional assistance.


*Witness.* A person who has information or evidence about a criminal offense within the investigative jurisdiction of a DoD Component and who provides that knowledge to a DoD Component. When the witness is a minor, that term includes a parent or legal guardian, or other person responsible for the child. The term does not include an individual involved in the crime as an alleged perpetrator or accomplice.




