# ยง 180.657   Metaflumizone; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide metaflumizone, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities listed in table 1 to this paragraph (a)(1). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph (a)(1) is to be determined by measuring only the sum of metaflumizone (E and Z isomers; 2-[2-(4-cyanophenyl)-1-[3-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]ethylidene]-*N*-[4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl] hydrazinecarboxamide) and its metabolite 4-{2-oxo-2-[3-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]ethyl}-benzonitrile, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of metaflumizone, in or on the following commodities:


(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide metaflumizone, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities listed in table 2 to this paragraph (a)(2). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph (a)(2) is to be determined by measuring only metaflumizone (E and Z isomers; 2-[2-(4-cyanophenyl)-1-[3-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]ethylidene]-*N*-[4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl] hydrazinecarboxamide) in or on the following animal commodities:


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved]


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* [Reserved]


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [77 FR 10386, Feb. 22, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 18810, Apr. 4, 2014; 80 FR 66800, Oct. 30, 2015; 86 FR 20293, Apr. 19, 2021; 86 FR 53558, Sept. 28, 2021]




