# ยง 51.1203   Air agency requirements.

(a) The air agency shall submit a list of applicable SO_2_ sources identified pursuant to ยง 51.1202 located in its jurisdiction to the EPA by January 15, 2016. This list may be revised by the Regional Administrator after review based on available SO_2_ emissions data.


(b) For each source area subject to requirements for air quality characterization, the air agency shall notify the EPA by July 1, 2016, whether it has chosen to characterize peak 1-hour SO_2_ concentrations in such area through ambient air quality monitoring; characterize peak 1-hour SO_2_ concentrations in such area through air quality modeling techniques; or provide federally enforceable emission limitations by January 13, 2017 that limit emissions of applicable sources to less than 2,000 tpy, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, or provide documentation that the applicable source has permanently shut down. Emission limits in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section may be established in lieu of conducting monitoring or modeling unless, in the judgment of the air agency or the EPA Regional Administrator, the area warrants further air quality characterization even with the establishment of any new emission limit(s). If the air agency has chosen to establish requirements to limit emissions for applicable sources in an area, the notification from the air agency shall describe the requirements and emission limits the air agency intends to apply. For any area with multiple applicable sources, the air agency (or air agencies if a multi-state area) shall use the same technique (monitoring, modeling, or emissions limitation) for all applicable sources in the area. If multiple air agencies have applicable sources in an area, the air agencies must consult with each other to employ a common technique for the area.


(c) *Monitoring.* For each area identified in the notification submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section as an area for which SO_2_ concentrations will be characterized through ambient monitoring, the required monitors shall be sited and operated either as SLAMS or in a manner equivalent to SLAMS. In either case, monitors shall meet applicable criteria in 40 CFR part 58, appendices A, C, and E and their data shall be subject to data certification and reporting requirements as prescribed in 40 CFR 58.15 and 58.16. These requirements include quarterly reporting of monitoring data to the Air Quality System, and the annual certification of data by May 1 of the following year.


(1) The air agency shall include relevant information about monitors used to meet the requirements of this paragraph (c) in the air agency's Annual Monitoring Network Plan required by 40 CFR 58.10 due July 1, 2016. The air agency shall consult with the appropriate EPA Regional Office in the development of plans to install, supplement, or maintain an appropriate ambient SO_2_ monitoring network pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR part 58 and of this subpart.


(2) All existing, *new,* or relocated ambient monitors intended to meet the requirements of this paragraph (c) must be operational by January 1, 2017 and must be operated continually until approved for shut down by EPA.


(3) Any SO_2_ monitor identified by an air agency in its approved Annual Monitoring Network Plan as having the purpose of meeting the requirements of this paragraph (c) that: Is not located in an area designated as nonattainment as the 2010 SO_2_ NAAQS is not also being used to satisfy other ambient SO_2_ minimum monitoring requirements listed in 40 CFR part 58, appendix D, section 4.4; and is not otherwise required as part of a SIP, permit, attainment plan or maintenance plan, may be eligible for shut down upon EPA approval if it produces a design value no greater than 50 percent of the 2010 SO_2_ NAAQS from data collected in either its first or second 3-year period of operation. The air agency must receive EPA Regional Administrator approval of a request to cease operation of the monitor as part of the EPA's action on the Annual Monitoring Network Plan under 40 CFR 58.10 prior to shutting down any qualifying monitor under this paragraph (c).


(d) *Modeling.* For each area identified in the notification submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section as an area for which SO_2_ concentrations will be characterized through air quality modeling, the air agency shall submit by July 1, 2016, a technical protocol for conducting such modeling to the Regional Administrator for review. The air agency shall consult with the appropriate EPA Regional Office in developing these modeling protocols.


(1) The modeling protocol shall include information about the modeling approach to be followed, including but not limited to the model to be used, modeling domain, receptor grid, emissions dataset, meteorological dataset and how the air agency will account for background SO_2_ concentrations.


(2) Modeling analyses shall characterize air quality based on either actual SO_2_ emissions from the most recent 3 years, or on any federally enforceable allowable emission limit or limits established by the air agency or the EPA and that are effective and require compliance by January 13, 2017.


(3) Except as provided by ยง 51.1204, the air agency shall conduct the modeling analysis for any applicable source identified by the air agency pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and for its associated area and any nearby area, as applicable, and submit the modeling analysis to the EPA Regional Office by January 13, 2017.


(e) *Federally enforceable requirement to limit SO*_2_*emissions to under 2,000 tons per year.* For each area identified in the notification submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this sectionas an area for which the air agency will adopt federally enforceable requirements in lieu of characterizing air quality through monitoring or modeling, the air agency shall submit documentation to the EPA by January 13, 2017, showing that such requirements have been adopted, are in effect, and been made federally enforceable by January 13, 2017, through an appropriate legal mechanism, and the provisions either:


(1) Require the applicable sources in the area to emit less than 2,000 tons of SO_2_ per year for calendar year 2017 and thereafter; or


(2) Document that the applicable sources in the area have permanently shut down by January 13, 2017.




