# § 287.11   Pre-enrolled Access Lane.

(a) *Pre-enrolled Access Lane* (PAL). A PAL is a designated traffic lane located at a Service checkpoint, which, when in operation, may be used exclusively by enrolled participants and their passengers in vehicles authorized by the Service to pass through the checkpoint.


(b) *General requirements for Pre-enrolled Access Lane Program.* (1) Participation in the Pre-enrolled Access Lane program is wholly voluntary and failure to apply or denial of an application does not prevent any person from passing through the checkpoint in the regular traffic lanes.


(2) Only United States citizens and members of the classes of aliens which the Commissioner of the Service or her delegates determine to be eligible may enroll in the PAL program. To participate in the PAL program, an applicant must have a permanent or temporary residence in the United States, and must agree to furnish all information requested on the application.


(3) The applicant must agree to all terms and conditions required for use of a Pre-enrolled Access Lane. Immigration, criminal justice information, and law enforcement records and databases will be checked to assist in determining the applicant's eligibility. The Service may require applicants to submit fingerprints, and the Service may provide those fingerprints to Federal, State, and local government agencies for the purpose of determining eligibility to participate in the PAL program.


(4) Any vehicle used in a Pre-enrolled Access Lane must have current approval from the Service for use in the PAL program.


(5) Enrolled participants may be issued an identification document showing authorization to participate in the PAL program, and, if such a document is issued, participants must have it in their possession whenever using the PAL. In addition, alien participants must be in possession of a valid form constituting evidence of alien registration pursuant to § 264.1(b) of this chapter at all times while using the PAL.


(6) The Service will install any and all equipment, decals, devices, technology, or methodology it deems necessary on registered vehicles to ensure that only authorized persons and vehicles use the PAL.


(7) All devices, decals, or other equipment, methodology, or technology used to identify persons or vehicles using a Pre-enrolled Access Lane remain the property of the United States Government at all times and must be surrendered upon request of the Service. Enrolled participants must abide by the terms set forth by the Service for use of any device, decal, or other equipment, methodology, or technology. If a vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of, it is the responsibility of the enrolled participant to remove or obliterate any identifying decal or other authorization for participation in the PAL program before or at the time of sale or disposal unless otherwise notified by the Service. If the Service installs an electronic transmitter or similar device on the vehicle, the enrolled participant must have that device removed by the Service at the PAL enrollment center prior to sale or disposal of an authorized vehicle.


(8) Enrolled participants in the PAL program may carry passengers who are not enrolled in the program in their authorized vehicles in the PAL as long as all passengers are United States citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, or rightful holders of valid nonimmigrant United States visas.


(c) *Application.* (1) Application for Pre-enrolled Access Lane participation shall be made on Form I-866, Application—Checkpoint Pre-enrolled Access Lane.


(2) Each person wishing to enroll in the Pre-enrolled Access Lane program must submit a separate application.


(3) Applications must be supported by documents establishing identity, United States citizenship or lawful immigration status in the United States, a valid driver's license, and vehicle registration for all vehicles being registered. The Service may require additional documentation where appropriate to substantiate information provided on the application, as well as written permission from the vehicle owner to use any vehicle not owned by the applicant in the PAL.


(4) Each person filing an application may be required to present himself or herself for an interview at a time and place designated by the Service prior to approval of the application.


(5) The Service may inspect any vehicle that a PAL applicant desires to register for use in the PAL to ensure that it does not present evidence of having been used or prepared to be used to smuggle aliens or controlled substances, and the Service must approve all vehicles prior to use in the PAL. The Service may prohibit the use of certain types of vehicles in the PAL for reasons of safety and law enforcement.


(6) An application may be denied by the Chief Patrol Agent having jurisdiction over the PAL enrollment center where the application is filed. Written notice of the decision on the application shall be given to the applicant or mailed by ordinary mail to the applicant's last known address. There is no appeal from a denial, but denial is without prejudice to reapplying for this program. Re-applications following denial or revocation of the privilege to participate in the PAL program will not be considered by the Service until 90 days after the date of denial or revocation.


(7) Registration in the PAL program is limited to individuals who the Service has determined present a low risk of using the PAL for unlawful purposes. Criteria that will be considered in the decision to approve or deny the application include the following: lawful presence in the United States, criminal history and/or evidence of criminality, employment, residency, prior immigration history, possession of a valid driver's license, vehicle type, registration, and inspection.


(8) Applications approved by the Service will entitle the authorized person and the authorized vehicle to use the PAL for 2 years from the date of approval of the application or until authorization is revoked, whichever occurs first.


(d) *Acknowledgments and agreements.* By signing and submitting the Form I-866 each applicant acknowledges and agrees to all of the conditions for participation in the PAL program and the statements on the Form I-866.


(e) *Violation of conditions of a Pre-enrolled Access Lane and Revocation.* An enrolled participant who violates any condition of the PAL program, or any applicable law or regulation, or who is otherwise determined by an immigration officer to be ineligible to participate in the PAL program, may have his or her authorization and the authorization of his or her vehicle(s) revoked by the Chief Patrol Agent with jurisdiction over the PAL enrollment center where the application is filed and may be subject to other applicable sanctions, such as criminal and/or civil penalties, removal, and/or possible seizure of goods and/or vehicles. If an authorized vehicle is sold, stolen, or otherwise disposed of, authorization to use that vehicle in the PAL is automatically revoked. Within 24 hours of when an authorized vehicle is stolen, or within 7 days of when such vehicle is sold, or otherwise disposed of or the license plates are changed, enrolled participants must give, in person or by facsimile transmission, written notice of such occurrence to the PAL enrollment center at which their application was filed. Failure to do so will result in the automatic revocation of the authorization to use the PAL of the person who registered such vehicle in the PAL program. Unless revocation is automatic, the Service will give notice of revocation to the enrolled PAL participant or mail it by ordinary mail to his or her last known address. However, written notification is not necessary prior to revocation of the privilege to participate in the PAL program. There is no appeal from the revocation of an authorization to participate in the PAL program.


(f) *No benefits or rights conferred.* This section does not, is not intended to, shall not be construed to, and may not be relied upon to confer any immigration benefit or status to any alien or create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable in law or equity by any party in any matter.



---

[N] [62 FR 19025, Apr. 18, 1997]




