# ยง 1806.25   Conditions.

The Agency financial assistance may be extended to eligible applicants meeting the eligibility requirements of ยง 1806.24 of this subpart, provided the following conditions are also met: 


(a) *Dwelling and multi-unit housing facilities.* (1) If the financial assistance is to buy a dwelling or multi-unit housing facility: 


(i) The first floor elevation of the habitable space of the dwelling or housing unit must be above the 100-year flood level. 


(ii) The housing must be served by public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems that are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, or have an onsite water supply system and waste disposal system located so as to avoid impairment of such systems and contamination from the waste disposal system to the water supply system from flooding. 


(2) If the financial assistance is to build or provide substantial improvement, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be met and all construction must meet requirements of the applicable development standards, and: 


(i) A building permit must be issued by the appropriate governing officials having jurisdiction in the area and compliance must be had with the zoning code or other established legal requirements of the area for reducing or eliminating flood or mudslide damage. 


(ii) The structure must be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure. 


(iii) Construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood damage must be used. 


(iv) Construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage must be followed. 


(3) If the financial assistance is to make minor repairs, the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) and (2) (i), (ii) and (iii) of this section must be met or the building must have existed on the site prior to the date the area was identified as having special flood or mudslide hazards and the loan approval official must determine that the dwelling is suitable as a residence. 


(4) When applications for financial assistance are received in areas identified as having special flood and mudslide hazards, the loan approval official will consider the expected severity and frequency of floods and mudslides in determining whether any housing loans should be made in the area. He should be sure, if loans are made, that the objectives of the loans can be accomplished and the Government's financial interest will be adequately protected. 


(b) *Nonresidential buildings.* Construction plans and specifications for new buildings or improvements to existing buildings must comply with flood plain area management or control laws, regulations or ordinances. 


(c) *Flood insurance coverage.* (1) Any property on which flood insurance is required must be covered by such insurance during its anticipated economic and useful life in an amount at least equal to its development or replacement cost (except estimated land cost), or to the maximum limit of coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Program, whichever is less. However, if the financial assistance provided is in the form of a loan, the amount of flood insurance required need not exceed the outstanding principal balance of the loan and need not be required beyond the term of the loan. 


(2) The contents of a building must be insured separately from a building but coverage cannot be written on the contents of a three-walled machinery shed or similar type open building. 


(3) Flood insurance shall not be required on any state owned property that is covered under an adequate state policy of self-insurance satisfactory to the Secretary of HUD, who will publish a list of states with such policies. 


(4) It will be emphasized that under the terms of the security instrument it is the borrower's responsibility to provide and maintain proper flood insurance coverage. If flood insurance is not provided on any property for which it is required, the flood insurance premium will be paid to protect the Government's security interest. For borrowers required to escrow for flood insurance, payment of the premium will be handled in accordance with ยง 1806.28 of this subpart. Existing borrowers required to escrow will be notified by letter at least 90 days prior to initiating escrowing for flood insurance. If the Agency pays the flood insurance premium for borrowers not required to escrow, the cost will be charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. Failure to provide flood insurance is a nonmonetary default and will be a consideration in determining if the loan is to be continued.



---

[N] [39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987; 56 FR 6945, Feb. 21, 1991; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]




