# ยง 624.7   Interstate System access requirements.

(a) The proposed change in access to the Interstate System shall not result in a significant adverse impact on the Interstate System traffic operations or the safety for all users of the transportation system in the project's area of influence, as demonstrated by operational and safety analyses based on both the current and future traffic projections using traffic data that is no more than 5 years old and at least the most recent 3 years of available safety data.


(b) Interstate System access points shall connect only to a public road. Connections directly to private developments, parking lots, or private roads are prohibited.


(c) Connections from outside of the Interstate System right-of-way to safety rest areas, information centers, weigh stations, and truck inspection stations located within the Interstate System right-of-way are prohibited.


(d) Each interchange shall provide for all traffic movements.


(e) A proposed change in access shall be designed to meet the standards in accordance with 23 CFR part 625 or have approved exceptions and shall comply with 23 CFR part 655.


(f) On a case by case basis, FHWA may grant exceptions to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section for:


(1) Locked gate access to private property for purposes of public safety;


(2) Locked gate access from an information center, weigh station, and truck inspection station to a local road for the purposes of public safety;


(3) Access from a safety rest area to an adjacent publicly owned conservation and recreation area if access to this area is available only through the safety rest area as allowed under 23 CFR 752.5(d);


(4) Locked gate access from a local public road to the safety rest area for the limited purpose of providing access to safety rest area employees, deliveries, and emergency vehicles; or


(5) A partial interchange where necessary to provide special access, such as to managed lanes or park and ride lots, or where factors such as the social, economic, and environmental impacts of a full interchange justify an exception.






