# § 63.9640   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you by the specified dates.


(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your affected source before October 30, 2003, you must submit your initial notification no later than 120 calendar days after October 30, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you start up your new affected source on or after October 30, 2003, you must submit your initial notification no later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.


(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).


(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration, you must submit a notification of compliance status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). The initial notification of compliance status must be submitted by the dates specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each initial compliance demonstration that does not include a performance test, you must submit the notification of compliance status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following completion of the initial compliance demonstration.


(2) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each initial compliance demonstration that does include a performance test, you must submit the notification of compliance status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each initial compliance demonstration that does include a performance test, you must submit the notification of compliance status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2). If the performance test results have been submitted electronically in accordance with § 63.9641(f), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.


(f) If you elect to use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the mercury standards in table 2 to this subpart, you must submit a notification of intent to use CEMS at least one month prior to making the change. If you are currently using CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the mercury standards, you must submit a notification of intent to cease using CEMS to demonstrate compliance at least 180 days prior to making the change.


(g) If you elect to use the mercury emissions averaging compliance option, you must submit a notification of intent at least 180 days prior to making the change. If you are currently using the mercury emissions averaging compliance option, you must submit a notification of intent to cease using emissions averaging at least 30 days prior to making the change.





---

[N] [68 FR 61888, Oct. 30, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 45497, July 28, 2020; 85 FR 73917, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 16435, Mar. 6, 2024]




