# § 319.10   Requirements for substitute standardized meat food products named by use of an expressed nutrient content claim and a standardized term.

(a) *Description.* The meat food products prescribed by this general definition and standard of identity are those products that substitute, in accordance with § 317.313(d), for a standardized product defined in this part and use the name of that standardized product in their statements of identity, but that do not comply with the established standard because of a compositional deviation that results from reduction of a constituent that is described by an expressed nutrient content claim that has been defined by regulation in part 317, subpart B, of this subchapter. The expressed nutrient content claim shall comply with the requirements of § 317.313 of this subchapter and with the requirements of part 317, subpart B, of this subchapter which define the particular nutrient content claim that is used. The meat food product shall comply with the relevant standard in this part in all other respects, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Performance characteristics.* The performance characteristics, such as physical properties, functional properties, and shelf-life, of the meat food product shall be similar to those of the standardized meat food product produced under this part. If there is a significant difference in a performance characteristic that materially limits the use of the product compared to the use of the standardized product defined in this part, the label shall include a statement in accordance with § 317.313(d)(1) and (2) of this subchapter that informs the consumer of such differences (*e.g.*, if appropriate, “not recommended for frozen storage” or “not suitable for roller grilling”). Deviations from the ingredient provisions of the standard must be the minimum necessary to qualify for the nutrient content claim, while maintaining similar performance characteristics.


(c) *Ingredients used in substitute products.* (1) Ingredients used in the product shall be those ingredients provided for in the standard as defined in this part, except that safe and suitable ingredients permitted for use in meat food products as provided in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, may be used at the minimum level necessary to improve texture and prevent syneresis, so that the substitute product is not inferior in performance characteristics from the standardized product defined in this part for which it is a substitute.


(2) An ingredient that is specifically required by the standard prescribed in this part shall not be replaced or exchanged with a similar ingredient from another source, for example, turnip chunks shall not replace potatoes in corned beef hash.


(3) An ingredient that is specifically prohibited from use in any meat food product by this part shall not be added to the substitute meat food product under this section.


(4) Unless otherwise specified in this part, a substitute meat food product must meet all other requirements of the applicable standards of identity or composition.


(5) Water and fat-replacers (*e.g.*, binders), in combination, may be added to replace fat in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(6) Textured vegetable protein may be used by itself or in combination with other binders and water as a fat replacer in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(d) *Nomenclature.* The name of a substitute meat food product that complies with all parts of this section is the appropriate expressed nutrient content claim and the applicable standardized term.


(e) *Label declaration.* (1) Each of the ingredients used in the substitute meat food product shall be declared on the label as required by this section and part 317 of this subchapter.


(2) Ingredients not provided for, and ingredients used in excess of those levels provided for, by the standard as defined in this part, shall be identified as such with an asterisk in the ingredients statement. The statement “*Ingredients not in regular ________” (the blank shall be filled in with the name of the traditional standardized product) or “**Ingredients in excess of amounts permitted in regular ________” (the blank shall be filled in with the name of the traditional standardized product), or both, as appropriate, shall immediately follow the ingredients statement in the same type and size.



---

[N] [70 FR 33818, June 10, 2005]




