# § 158.803   Career development program.

(a) *Career development program.* In alignment with the DHS-CS's core values described in § 158.305 and the compensation strategy described in § 158.601, the Secretary or designee establishes and administers a career development program to:


(1) Guide the career progression of each DHS-CS employee;


(2) Ensure development of the collective expertise of DHS-CS employees through continual learning; and


(3) Ensure continued alignment between the qualifications of DHS-CS employees and CTMS qualifications.


(b) *Career progression.* Career progression in the DHS-CS is based on enhancement of CTMS qualifications and salary progression resulting from recognition adjustments under § 158.631. Career progression in the DHS-CS is not based on length of service in the DHS-CS or the Federal Government. The Department guides the career progression of DHS-CS employees using development strategies based on:


(1) Information from development reviews, described in § 158.806;


(2) Mission-related requirements; and


(3) Strategic talent priorities.


(c) *Commitment to continual learning.* The Department establishes, maintains, and communicates criteria for continual learning. Such criteria include recommended and required learning activities, including completion of specific courses of study, completion of mission-related training defined in 5 CFR 410.101, performance of certain DHS-CS cybersecurity work as part of assignments, and participation in opportunities for professional development and training described in § 158.640. The Department aims to utilize all available opportunities for DHS-CS employee development, including opportunities under this part and under or based on authorities in 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR relating to continual learning, professional development, and training, as appropriate.


(d) *Verification of qualifications enhancements.* The Department verifies DHS-CS employees' enhancement of CTMS qualifications, which may include review by the CTMB or assessment using standardized instruments and procedures designed to measure the extent to which a DHS-CS employee has enhanced the employee's qualifications. Verification of enhancement to CTMS qualifications may require updating the documentation associated with the employee's qualified position, as described in § 158.706.






