# ยง 440.90   Clinic services.

*Clinic services* means preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, or palliative services that are furnished by a facility that is not part of a hospital but is organized and operated to provide medical care to outpatients. The term includes the following services furnished to outpatients (services in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are a mandatory part of clinic services, while services in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section are optional):


(a) Services furnished at the clinic by or under the direction of a physician or dentist.


(b) Services furnished outside the clinic, by clinic personnel under the direction of a physician, to an individual who does not reside in a permanent dwelling or does not have a fixed home or mailing address.


(c) Services furnished outside a clinic that is a facility of the Indian Health Service, whether operated by the Indian Health Service or by a Tribe or Tribal organization (as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA), Pub. L. 93-638), by clinic personnel under the direction of a physician.


(d) Services furnished outside of a clinic that is primarily organized for the care and treatment of outpatients with behavioral health disorders, including mental health and substance use disorders, by clinic personnel under the direction of a physician.


(e) Services furnished outside of a clinic that is located in a rural area and is not a rural health clinic (as referenced in section 1905(a)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act and ยง 440.20(b)) by clinic personnel under the direction of a physician. States must include a definition of rural area in their State plans. This definition must be either a definition adopted and used by a Federal governmental agency for programmatic purposes, or a definition adopted by a State governmental agency with a role in setting State rural health policy.





---

[N] [56 FR 8851, Mar. 1, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 61486, Nov. 30, 1995; 89 FR 94591, Nov. 27, 2024]




