# ยง 249.23   Records and reports.

(a) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Each State agency must maintain full and complete records concerning SFMNP operations. Such records must comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:


(1) Records must include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to certification, financial operations, SFMNP coupon issuance and redemption, authorized outlet (farmers, farmers' markets, and CSA program) agreements, authorized outlet monitoring, CSA program agreements, invoices, delivery receipts, equipment purchases and inventory, nutrition education, fair hearings, and civil rights procedures.


(2) All records must be retained for a minimum of 3 years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the 3-year period, the records must be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the SFMNP records to be of historical interest, it may require the State agency to forward such records to FNS whenever the State agency is disposing of them.


(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with SFMNP funds must be retained for three years after its final disposition.


(4) All records must be available during normal business hours for representatives of FNS of the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports resulting from such examinations shall not divulge names of individuals.


(b) *Financial and participant reports.* State agencies must submit financial and SFMNP performance data on a yearly basis as specified by FNS. Such information must include, but shall not be limited to:


(1) Number of participants served with Federal SFMNP funds;


(2) Value of coupons issued and/or eligible foods ordered under CSA programs;


(3) Value of coupons redeemed and/or eligible foods provided to participants under CSA programs; and


(4) Number of authorized outlets by type; i.e., farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and CSA programs.


(c) *Source documentation.* To be acceptable for audit purposes, all financial and SFMNP performance reports must be traceable to source documentation.


(d) *Certification of reports.* Financial and SFMNP reports must be certified as to their completeness and accuracy by the person given that responsibility by the State agency.


(e) *Use of reports.* FNS will use State agency reports to measure progress in achieving objectives set forth in the State Plan, and this part, or other State agency performance plans. If it is determined, through review of State agency reports, SFMNP or financial analysis, or an audit, that a State agency is not meeting the objectives set forth in its State Plan, FNS may request additional information including, but not limited to, reasons for failure to achieve these objectives. 



---

[N] [71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]




