# § 165.1122   San Diego Bay, Mission Bay and their Approaches—Regulated navigation area.

(a) *Regulated navigation area.* The following area is a regulated navigation area (RNA): All waters of San Diego Bay, Mission Bay, and their approaches encompassed by a line commencing at Point La Jolla (32°51′06″ N, 117°16′42″ W); thence proceeding seaward on a line bearing 255° T to the outermost extent of the territorial seas; thence proceeding southerly along the outermost extent of the territorial seas to the intersection of the maritime boundary with Mexico; thence proceeding easterly, along the maritime boundary with Mexico to its intersection with the California coast; thence proceeding northerly, along the shoreline of the California coast—and including the inland waters of San Diego Bay and Mission Bay, California, shoreward of the COLREGS Demarcation Line —back to the point of origin. All coordinates reference 1983 North American Datum (NAD 83).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*COLREGS Demarcation Line* means the line described at 33 CFR 80.1104 or 80.1106.


*Public vessel* means a vessel that is owned or demise—(bareboat) chartered by the government of the United States, by a State or local government, or by the government of a foreign country and that is not engaged in commercial service.


*Vessel* means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water other than a public vessel.


(c) *Applicability.* This section applies to all vessels of 100 gross tons (GT) or more, including tug and barge combinations of 100 GT or more (combined), operating within the RNA, with the exception of public vessels, vessels not intending to cross the COLREGS Demarcation Line and enter San Diego Bay or Mission Bay, and any vessels exercising rights under principles of international law, including innocent passage or force majeure, within the area of this RNA. Vessels operating properly installed, operational, type approved automatic identification system (AIS) as denoted in 33 CFR 164.46 are exempted from making requests as required in this regulation.


(d) *Regulations.* (1) No vessel to which this rule applies may enter, depart or move within San Diego Bay or Mission Bay unless it complies with the following requirements:


(i) Obtain permission to enter San Diego Bay or Mission Bay from the Captain of the Port or designated representative immediately upon entering the RNA. However, to avoid potential delays, we recommend seeking permission 30 minutes prior to entering the RNA.


(ii) Follow all instructions issued by the Captain of the Port or designated representative.


(iii) Obtain permission for any departure from or movement within the RNA from the Captain of the Port or designated representative prior to getting underway.


(iv) Follow all instructions issued by the Captain of the Port or designated representative.


(v) Requests may be made by telephone at 619-278-7033 (select option 2) or via VHF-FM radiotelephone on channel 16 (156.800 Mhz). The call sign for radiotelephone requests to the Captain of the Port or designated representative is “Coast Guard Sector San Diego.”


(2) For purposes of the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Captain of the Port or designated representative means any official designated by the Captain of the Port, including but not limited to commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard, and any U.S. Coast Guard patrol vessel. Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.


(e) *Waivers.* The Captain of the Port or designated representative may, upon request, waive any regulation in this section.



---

[N] [CGD11-05-002, 70 FR 70495, Nov. 22, 2005]




