# § 16.19   Procedures for an existing licensee of a minor hydroelectric power project or of a minor part of a hydroelectric power project with a license not subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to an existing licensee of a minor hydroelectric power project or of a minor part of a hydroelectric power project that is not subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act. 


(b) *Notification procedures.* (1) An existing licensee with a minor license or a license for a minor part of a hydroelectric project must file a notice of intent pursuant to § 16.6(b).


(2) If the license of an existing licensee expires on or after October 17, 1994, the licensee must notify the Commission as required under § 16.6(b) at least five years before the expiration of the existing license. 


(3) The Commission will give notice of a licensee's intent to file or not to file an application for a subsequent license in accordance with § 16.6(d). 


(c) *Requirement to make information available.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a licensee must make the information described in § 16.7 available to the public for inspection and reproduction when it gives notice to the Commission under paragraph (b). 


(2) The requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply if an applicant filed an application for a subsequent license on or before July 3, 1989.



---

[N] [Order 513, 54 FR 23806, June 2, 1989, as amended by Order 2002, 68 FR 51142, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 699, 72 FR 45324, Aug. 14, 2007]




