# § 488.1245   Civil money penalties.

(a)* Application.* (1) CMS may impose a civil money penalty against a hospice program for either the number of days the hospice program is not in compliance with one or more conditions of participation or for each instance that a hospice program is not in compliance, regardless of whether the hospice program's deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy.


(2) CMS may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days of immediate jeopardy.


(3) A per-day and a per-instance civil money penalty (CMP) may not be imposed simultaneously for the same deficiency in conjunction with a survey.


(4) CMS may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days of noncompliance since the last standard survey, including the number of days of immediate jeopardy.


(b)* Amount of penalty*—(1) *Factors considered.* CMS takes into account the following factors in determining the amount of the penalty:


(i) The factors set out at § 488.1215.


(ii) The size of a hospice program and its resources.


(iii) Evidence that the hospice program has a built-in, self-regulating quality assessment and performance improvement system to provide proper care, prevent poor outcomes, control patient injury, enhance quality, promote safety, and avoid risks to patients on a sustainable basis that indicates the ability to meet the conditions of participation and to ensure patient health and safety.


(2) *Adjustments to penalties.* Based on revisit survey findings, adjustments to penalties may be made after a review of the provider's attempted correction of deficiencies.


(i) CMS may increase a CMP in increments based on a hospice program's inability or failure to correct deficiencies, the presence of a system-wide failure in the provision of quality care, or a determination of immediate jeopardy with actual harm versus immediate jeopardy with potential for harm.


(ii) CMS may also decrease a CMP in increments to the extent that it finds, in accordance with a revisit, that substantial and sustainable improvements have been implemented even though the hospice program is not yet in compliance with the conditions of participation.


(iii) No penalty assessment exceeds $10,000, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, for each day a hospice program is not in substantial compliance with one or more conditions of participation.


(3) *Upper range of penalty.* Penalties in the upper range of $8,500 to $10,000 per day, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, are imposed for a condition-level deficiency that is immediate jeopardy. The penalty in this range continues until substantial compliance can be determined based on a revisit survey.


(i) $10,000, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, per day for a deficiency or deficiencies that are immediate jeopardy and that result in actual harm.


(ii) $9,000, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, per day for a deficiency or deficiencies that are immediate jeopardy and that result in a potential for harm.


(iii) $8,500, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, per day for a deficiency based on an isolated incident in violation of established hospice policy.


(4) *Middle range of penalty.* Penalties in the range of $1,500 up to $8,500, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, per day of noncompliance are imposed for a repeat or condition-level deficiency or both that does not constitute immediate jeopardy but is directly related to poor quality patient care outcomes.


(5) *Lower range of penalty.* Penalties in this range of $500 to $4,000, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102, are imposed for a repeat or condition-level deficiency or both that does not constitute immediate jeopardy and that are related predominately to structure or process-oriented conditions rather than directly related to patient care outcomes.


(6) *Per instance penalty.* Penalty imposed per instance of noncompliance may be assessed for one or more singular events of condition-level deficiency that are identified and where the noncompliance was corrected during the onsite survey. When penalties are imposed for per instance of noncompliance, or more than one per instance of noncompliance, the penalties will be in the range of $1,000 to $10,000 per instance, not to exceed $10,000 each day of noncompliance, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102.


(7) *Decreased penalty amounts.* If the immediate jeopardy situation is removed, but a condition-level deficiency exists, CMS shifts the penalty amount imposed per day from the upper range to the middle or lower range. An earnest effort to correct any systemic causes of deficiencies and sustain improvement must be evident.


(8) *Increased penalty amounts.* (i) In accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, CMS increases the per day penalty amount for any condition-level deficiency or deficiencies which, after imposition of a lower-level penalty amount, become sufficiently serious to pose potential harm or immediate jeopardy.


(ii) CMS increases the per day penalty amount for deficiencies that are not corrected and found again at the time of revisit survey(s) for which a lower-level penalty amount was previously imposed.


(iii) CMS may impose a more severe amount of penalties for repeated noncompliance with the same condition-level deficiency or uncorrected deficiencies from a prior survey.


(c) *Procedures*—(1) *Notice of intent.* CMS provides the hospice program with written notice of the intent to impose a civil money penalty in accordance with § 488.1210(e).


(2) *Appeals*—(i) *Appeals procedures.* A hospice program may request a hearing on the determination of the noncompliance that is the basis for imposition of the civil money penalty. The request must meet the requirements in § 498.40 of this chapter.


(ii) *Waiver of a hearing.* A hospice program may waive the right to a hearing, in writing, within 60 calendar days from the date of the notice imposing the civil money penalty. If a hospice program timely waives its right to a hearing, CMS reduces the penalty amount by 35 percent, and the amount is due within 15 calendar days of the hospice program agreeing in writing to waive the hearing. If the hospice program does not waive its right to a hearing in accordance to the procedures specified in this section, the civil money penalty is not reduced by 35 percent.


(d) *Accrual and duration of penalty*—(1) *Accrual of per day penalty.* (i) The per day civil money penalty may start accruing as early as the beginning of the last day of the survey that determines that the hospice program was out of compliance, as determined by CMS.


(ii) A civil money penalty for each per instance of noncompliance is imposed in a specific amount for that particular deficiency, with a maximum of $10,000 per day per hospice program.


(2) *Duration of per day penalty when there is immediate jeopardy.* (i) In the case of noncompliance that poses immediate jeopardy, CMS must terminate the provider agreement within 23 calendar days after the last day of the survey if the immediate jeopardy is not removed.


(ii) A penalty imposed per day of noncompliance will stop accruing on the day the provider agreement is terminated or the hospice program achieves substantial compliance, whichever occurs first.


(3) *Duration of penalty when there is no immediate jeopardy.* (i) In the case of noncompliance that does not pose immediate jeopardy, the daily accrual of per day civil money penalties is imposed for the days of noncompliance prior to the notice of intent specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and an additional period of no longer than 6 months following the last day of the survey.


(ii) If the hospice program has not achieved compliance with the conditions of participation within 6 months following the last day of the survey, CMS terminates the provider agreement. The accrual of civil money penalty stops on the day the hospice program agreement is terminated or the hospice program achieves substantial compliance, whichever is earlier.


(e) *Computation and notice of total penalty amount.* (1) When a civil money penalty is imposed on a per day basis and the hospice program achieves compliance with the conditions of participation as determined by a revisit survey, once the administrative determination is final, CMS sends a final notice to the hospice program containing of the following information:


(i) The amount of penalty assessed per day.


(ii) The total number of days of noncompliance.


(iii) The total amount due.


(iv) The due date of the penalty.


(v) The rate of interest to be assessed on any unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.


(2) When a civil money penalty is imposed per instance of noncompliance, once the administrative determination is final, CMS sends a final notice to the hospice program containing all of the following information:


(i) The amount of the penalty that was assessed.


(ii) The total amount due.


(iii) The due date of the penalty.


(iv) The rate of interest to be assessed on any unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.


(3) In the case of a hospice program for which the provider agreement has been involuntarily terminated, CMS sends the final notice after one of the following actions has occurred:


(i) The administrative determination is final.


(ii) The hospice program has waived its right to a hearing in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(iii) Time for requesting a hearing has expired and the hospice program has not requested a hearing.


(f) *Due date for payment of penalty.* A penalty is due and payable 15 calendar days from notice of the final administrative decision.


(1) Payments are due for all civil money penalties within 15 calendar days of any of the following:


(i) After a final administrative decision when the hospice program achieves substantial compliance before the final decision or the effective date of termination occurs before the final decision.


(ii) After the time to appeal has expired and the hospice program does not appeal or fails to timely appeal the initial determination.


(iii) After CMS receives a written request from the hospice program requesting to waive its right to appeal the determinations that led to the imposition of a remedy.


(iv) After the effective date of termination.


(2) A request for hearing does not delay the imposition of any penalty; it only potentially delays the collection of the final penalty amount.


(3) If a hospice program waives its right to a hearing according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, CMS applies a 35 percent reduction to the CMP amount for any of the following:


(i) The hospice program achieved compliance with the conditions of participation before CMS received the written waiver of hearing.


(ii) The effective date of termination occurs before CMS received the written waiver of hearing.


(4) The period of noncompliance may not extend beyond 6 months from the last day of the survey.


(5) The amount of the penalty, when determined, may be deducted (offset) from any sum then or later owing by CMS or State Medicaid to the hospice program.


(6) Interest is assessed and accrues on the unpaid balance of a penalty, beginning on the due date. Interest is computed at the rate specified in § 405.378(d) of this chapter.


(g)* Review of the penalty.* When an administrative law judge finds that the basis for imposing a civil monetary penalty exists, as specified in this part, the administrative law judge, may not do any of the following:


(1) Set a penalty of zero or reduce a penalty to zero.


(2) Review the exercise of discretion by CMS to impose a civil monetary penalty.


(3) Consider any factors in reviewing the amount of the penalty other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section.




