# ยง 1054.110   What evaporative emission standards must my handheld equipment meet?

The following evaporative emission requirements apply for handheld equipment over a useful life of five years:


(a) *Fuel line permeation.* Nonmetal fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements for EPA Nonroad Fuel Lines or EPA Cold-Weather Fuel Lines as specified in 40 CFR 1060.102. These requirements apply starting in the 2012 model year, except that they apply starting in the 2013 model year for emission families involving small-volume emission families that are not used in cold-weather equipment. For fuel lines used in cold-weather equipment, you may generate or use emission credits to show compliance with these permeation standards through 2015 as described in ยง 1054.145(h).


(b) *Tank permeation.* Fuel tanks must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.103. The requirements in 40 CFR 1060.103 apply for handheld equipment starting in the 2010 model year, except that they apply starting in the 2011 model year for structurally integrated nylon fuel tanks, in the 2012 model year for handheld equipment using nonhandheld engines, and in the 2013 model year for all small-volume emission families. For nonhandheld equipment using engines at or below 80 cc, the requirements of this paragraph (b) apply starting in the 2012 model year. You may generate or use emission credits to show compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b) under the averaging, banking, and trading program as described in subpart H of this part. FEL caps apply as specified in ยง 1054.112(b)(1) through (3) starting in the 2015 model year.


(c) *Running loss.* The running loss requirements specified in 40 CFR part 1060 do not apply for handheld equipment.


(d) *Other requirements.* The provisions of 40 CFR 1060.101(e) and (f) include general requirements that apply to all nonroad equipment subject to evaporative emission standards.


(e) *Engine manufacturers.* To the extent that engine manufacturers produce engines with fuel lines or fuel tanks, those fuel-system components must meet the requirements specified in this section. The timing of new standards is based on the date of manufacture of the engine.



---

[N] [73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]




