# § 457.616   Application and tracking of payments against the fiscal year allotments.

(a) *Categories of payments applied to reduce the State allotments.* In accordance with the principles described in paragraph (c) of this section, the following categories of payments are applied to reduce the State allotments for a fiscal year: 


(1) Payments made to the State for expenditures claimed during the fiscal year under its title XIX Medicaid program, to the extent the payments were made on the basis of the enhanced FMAP described in sections 1905(b) and 2105(b) of the Act for expenditures attributable to children described in section 1905(u)(2) of the Act. 


(2) Payments made to the State for expenditures claimed during the fiscal year under its title XIX Medicaid program, to the extent the payments were made on the basis of the enhanced FMAP described in sections 1905(b) and 2105(b) of the Act for expenditures attributable to children described in section 1905(u)(3) of the Act. 


(3) [Reserved]


(4) Payments made to a State under its title XXI State Children's Health Insurance Program with respect to section 2105(a) of the Act for expenditures claimed by the State during a fiscal year. 


(b) *Application of principles.* CMS applies the principles in paragraph (c) of this section to— 


(1) Coordinate the application of the payments made to a State for the State's expenditures claimed under the Medicaid and State Children's Health Insurance programs against the State allotment for a fiscal year; 


(2) Determine the order of these payments in that application; and 


(3) Determine the application of payments against multiple State Child Health Insurance Program fiscal year allotments. 


(c) *Principles for applying Federal payments against the allotment.* CMS— 


(1) Applies the payments attributable to Medicaid expenditures specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, against the State child health plan allotment for a fiscal year before State child health plan expenditures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section are applied. 


(2) Applies the payments attributable to Medicaid and State child health plan expenditures specified in paragraph (a) of this section against the applicable allotments for a fiscal year based on the quarter in which the expenditures are claimed by the State. 


(3) Applies payments against the State allotments for a fiscal year in a manner that is consistent for all States. 


(4) Applies payments attributable to Medicaid expenditures specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, in an order that maximizes Federal reimbursement for States. Expenditures for which the enhanced FMAP is available are applied before expenditures for which the regular FMAP is available. 


(5) Applies payments for expenditures against State Child Health Insurance Program fiscal year allotments in the least administratively burdensome, and most effective and efficient manner; payments are applied on a quarterly basis as they are claimed by the State, and are applied to reduce the earliest fiscal year State allotments before the payments are applied to reduce later fiscal year allotments. 


(6) Subject to paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, applies payments for expenditures for a fiscal year's allotment against a subsequent fiscal year's allotment; however, the subsequent fiscal year's allotment must be available at the time of application. For example, if the allotment for fiscal year 1998 has been fully expended, payments for expenditures claimed in fiscal year 1998 are carried over for application against the fiscal year 1999 allotment when it becomes available. 


(i) In accordance with § 457.618, the amount of non-primary expenditures that are within the 10 percent limit for the fiscal year for which they are claimed may be applied against a fiscal year allotment or allotments available in a subsequent fiscal year. 


(ii) In accordance with § 457.618, the amounts of non-primary expenditures that exceed the 10 percent limit for the fiscal year for which they are claimed may not be applied against a fiscal year allotment or allotments available in a subsequent fiscal year. 


(7) Carries over unexpended amounts of a State's allotment for a fiscal year for use in subsequent fiscal years through the end of the 3-year period of availability. For example, if the amounts of the fiscal year 1998 allotment are not fully expended by the end of fiscal year 1998, these amounts are carried over to fiscal year 1999 and are available to provide FFP for expenditures claimed by the State for that fiscal year. 


(d) *Amount of Federal payment for expenditures claimed.* The amount of the Federal payment for expenditures claimed by a State, District of Columbia, or the Commonwealths and Territories is determined by the enhanced FMAP applicable to the fiscal year in which the State paid the expenditure. For example, Federal payment for an expenditure paid by a State in fiscal year 1998 that was carried over to fiscal year 1999 (in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of this section), because the State exceeded its fiscal year 1998 allotment, is available at the fiscal year 1998 enhanced FMAP rate. 



---

[N] [65 FR 33622, May 24, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 86466, Nov. 30, 2016]




