# ยง 24.296   Taxpaid wine operations.

(a) *General.* The proprietor may conduct taxpaid wine operations authorized by ยง 24.102 in an area designated as a taxpaid wine premises at a bonded wine premises or at a taxpaid wine bottling house. Taxpaid foreign wine may be received on the taxpaid wine premises for reconditioning and removal without retaxpayment or for destruction without credit of tax. Any taxpaid wine operations will be separate from all nontaxpaid wine operations and taxpaid wine will be clearly identified as provided in ยง 24.135. The appropriate TTB officer may require any additional segregation and identification of taxpaid wine operations as deemed necessary to protect the revenue.


(b) *Treatment and blending.* Taxpaid wine may be treated with sulfur dioxide compounds, refrigeration or pasteurization and may also be preserved, filtered or clarified by the use of methods or materials which will not change the basic character of the wine. Water may not be added to taxpaid wine. The proprietor who desires to treat wine in any manner (other than by simple filtration or the use of sulfur compounds, refrigeration or pasteurization) shall first file with the appropriate TTB officer an application giving the details of the proposed treatment. The proprietor may not use the treatment prior to approval. The proprietor may incur civil or criminal liability for using an unauthorized treatment of untaxpaid wine. Wine of the same kind (class and type), national origin and tax class may only be mixed to facilitate handling at a taxpaid wine bottling house; otherwise, the blending of taxpaid wine on such premises is prohibited. Taxpaid wine of different national origins, but of the same kind and tax class, may only be blended on taxpaid wine premises. (Sec. 201, Pub. L. 85-859, 72 Stat. 1407 (26 U.S.C. 5352, 5661))



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, Mar. 22, 1999]




