# § 721.1930   Butanoic acid, antimony (3=) salt.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as butanoic acid, antimony (3=) salt (PMN P-94-1143; CAS No. 53856-17-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and SDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the following statement: This substance may cause neurologic effects. This substance may cause cardiovascular effects. This substance may cause ocular irritation.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p) (675,000 kg).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 3423, Jan. 22, 1998]




