# § 742.14   Significant items: hot section technology for the development, production or overhaul of commercial aircraft engines, components, and systems.

(a) *License requirement.* Licenses are required for all destinations, except Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom, for ECCNs having an “SI” under the “Reason for Control” paragraph. These items include hot section technology for the development, production or overhaul of commercial aircraft engines controlled under ECCN 9E003.a.1 through a.6, a.8, .h, .i, and .l, and related controls.


(b) *Licensing policy.* Pursuant to section 6 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, foreign policy controls apply to technology required for the development, production or overhaul of commercial aircraft engines controlled by ECCN 9E003a.1 through a.6, a.8, .h, .i, and .l, and related controls. These controls supplement the national security controls that apply to these items. Applications for export and reexport to all destinations will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export or reexport is consistent with U.S. national security and foreign policy interests. The following factors are among those that will be considered to determine what action will be taken on license applications:








(1) The country of destination;


(2) The ultimate end-user(s);


(3) The technology involved;


(4) The specific nature of the end-use(s); and


(5) The types of assurance against unauthorized use or diversion that are given in a particular case.










(c) *Contract sanctity.* Contract sanctity provisions are not available for license applications reviewed under this § 742.14.


(d) [Reserved]



---

[N] [64 FR 13339, Mar. 18, 1999, as amended at 75 FR 36515, June 28, 2010; 75 FR 54276, Sept. 7, 2010; 76 FR 29619, May 20, 2011; 88 FR 12112, Feb. 24, 2023; 88 FR 71935, Oct. 18, 2023; 89 FR 28600, Apr. 19, 2024]




