# ยง 319.69   Notice of quarantine.

(a) The following plants and plant products, when used as packing materials, are prohibited entry into the United States from the countries and localities named in this paragraph (a), exceptions to the prohibitions may be authorized in the case of specific materials which have been so prepared, manufactured, or processed that in the judgment of the inspector no pest risk is involved in their entry:


(1) Rice straw, hulls, and chaff; from all countries. 


(2) Corn and allied plants (maize, sorghum, broomcorn, Sudan grass, napier grass, jobs-tears, teosinte, Polytoca, Sclerachne, Chionachne); all parts, from all countries except Mexico, and the countries of Central America, the West Indies, and South America. 


(3) Cotton and cotton products (lint, waste, seed cotton, cottonseed, and cottonseed hulls); from all countries. 


(4) Sugarcane; all parts of the plant including bagasse, from all countries. 


(5) Bamboo; leaves and small shoots, from all countries. 


(6) Leaves of plants; from all countries. 


(7) Forest litter; from all countries. 


(8) Organic decaying vegetative matter from all countries, unless the matter is expressly authorized to be used as a packing material in this part. Exceptions to the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section may be authorized in the case of specific materials which has been so prepared, manufactured, or processed that in the judgment of the inspector no pest risk is involved in their entry.


(b) The following plants and plant products when used as packing materials will be permitted entry into the United States from the countries and localities designated below only in accordance with the regulations in this subpart: 


(1) Cereal straw, hulls, and chaff (such as oats, barley, and rye) from all countries, except rice straw, hulls, and chaff, which are prohibited importation from all countries by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and except wheat straw, hulls, and chaff, which are restricted importation by ยง 319.59 of this part from any country or locality listed in ยง 319.59-2 of this part.


(2) Corn and allied plants (maize, sorghum, broomcorn, Sudan grass, napier grass, jobs-tears, teosinte, Polytoca, Sclerachne, Chionachne); all parts, from Mexico and the countries of Central America, the West Indies, and South America. 


(3) Grasses and hay and similar indefinite dried or cured masses of grasses, weeds, and herbaceous plants; from all countries. 


(c) The importation of plants and plant products that are prohibited or restricted under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be authorized for experimental, therapeutic, or developmental purposes under conditions specified in a controlled import permit issued in accordance with ยง 319.6.


(d) This quarantine shall leave in full force and effect all other quarantines and orders. 


(e) As used in this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, the term *United States* means the States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States. 



---

[N] [24 FR 10788, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 26 FR 9333, Oct. 4, 1961; 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 60 FR 27682, May 25, 1995; 63 FR 31102, June 8, 1998; 78 FR 25571, May 2, 2013; 84 FR 29958, June 25, 2019]




