# § 784.2   Obtaining consent or warrants to conduct complementary access.

(a) *Procedures for obtaining consent.* (1) For locations specified in the U.S. declaration and other locations specified by the IAEA, BIS will seek consent pursuant to IAEA complementary access requests. In instances where the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of a location does not consent to such complementary access, BIS will seek administrative warrants as provided by the Act.


(2) For locations specified by the IAEA where access cannot be provided, BIS may seek consent from an adjacent location pursuant to an IAEA complementary access request.


(b) *Who may give consent.* The owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of a location may consent to complementary access. The individual providing consent on behalf of the location represents that he or she has the authority to make this decision.


(c) *Scope of consent.* (1) When the owner, operator, occupant, or agent in charge of a location consents to a complementary access request, he or she is agreeing to provide the IAEA Team with the same degree of access as that authorized under § 784.3 of the APR. This includes providing access for the IAEA Team and Host Team to any area of the location, any item on the location, and any records that are necessary to comply with the APR and allow the IAEA Team to accomplish the purpose of complementary access, as authorized under § 784.1(b)(1) or (b)(2) of the APR, except for the following:


(i) Information subject to the licensing jurisdiction of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), U.S. Department of State, under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120 through 130)—see § 784.3(b)(3) of the APR, which states that such access cannot be provided without prior U.S. Government authorization; and


(ii) Activities with direct national security significance to the United States, or locations or information associated with such activities.


(2) The Host Team Leader is responsible for determining whether or not the IAEA's request to obtain access to any area, building, or item, or to record or conduct the types of activities described in § 784.3 of the APR is consistent with the Additional Protocol and subsidiary arrangements to the Additional Protocol. 




