# § 360.3   Filing fees.

(a) *Manner of payment.* (1) Except for the insurance fees described in the next sentence, all filing fees must be paid at the time the application, petition, or other document is electronically filed. The service fee for insurance, surety or self-insurer accepted certificate of insurance, surety bond or other instrument submitted in lieu of a broker surety bond must be charged to an insurance service account established by FMCSA in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Billing account procedure.* A request must be submitted to the Office of Registration and Safety Information (MC-RS) at *http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov* to establish an insurance service fee account.


(i) Each account will have a specific billing date within each month and a billing cycle. The billing date is the date that the bill is prepared and printed. The billing cycle is the period between the billing date in one month and the billing date in the next month. A bill for each account that has activity or an unpaid balance during the billing cycle will be sent on the billing date each month. Payment will be due 20 days from the billing date. Payments received before the next billing date are applied to the account. Interest will accrue in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9.


(ii) The Federal Claims Collection Standards, including disclosure to consumer reporting agencies and the use of collection agencies, as set forth in 31 CFR part 901, will be utilized to encourage payment where appropriate.


(iii) An account holder who files a petition for bankruptcy or who is the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding must provide the following information to the Office of Registration and Safety Information (MC-RS) at *http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov:*

(A) The filing date of the bankruptcy petition;


(B) The court in which the bankruptcy petition was filed;


(C) The type of bankruptcy proceeding;


(D) The name, address, and telephone number of its representative in the bankruptcy proceeding; and


(E) The name, address, and telephone number of the bankruptcy trustee, if one has been appointed.


(3) Fees will be payable through the U.S. Department of Treasury secure payment system, *Pay.gov,* and are made directly from the payor's bank account or by credit/debit card.


(b) Any filing that is not accompanied by the appropriate filing fee will be rejected.


(c) *Fees not refundable.* Fees will be assessed for every filing listed in the schedule of fees contained in paragraph (f) of this section, titled, “*Schedule of filing fees*,” subject to the exceptions contained in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. After the application, petition, or other document has been accepted for filing by FMCSA, the filing fee will not be refunded, regardless of whether the application, petition, or other document is granted or approved, denied, rejected before docketing, dismissed, or withdrawn.


(d) *Multiple authorities.* (1) A separate filing fee is required for each type of authority sought, for example broker authority requested by an entity that already holds motor property carrier authority or multiple types of authority requested in the same application.


(2) Separate fees will be assessed for the filing of temporary operating authority applications as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, regardless of whether such applications are related to an application for corresponding permanent operating authority.


(e) *Waiver or reduction of filing fees.* It is the general policy of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration not to waive or reduce filing fees except as follows:


(1) Filing fees are waived for an application that is filed by a Federal government agency, or a State or local government entity. For purposes of this section the phrases “Federal government agency” or “government entity” do not include a quasi-governmental corporation or government subsidized transportation company.


(2) Filing fees are waived for a motor carrier of passengers that receives a grant from the Federal Transit Administration either directly or through a third-party contract to provide passenger transportation under an agreement with a State or local government pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5310, 5311, 5316, or 5317.


(3) The FMCSA will consider other requests for waivers or fee reductions only in extraordinary situations and in accordance with the following procedure:


(i) *When to request.* At the time that a filing is submitted to FMCSA, the applicant may request a waiver or reduction of the fee prescribed in this part. Such request should be addressed to the Director, Office of Registration and Safety Information.


(ii) *Basis.* The applicant must show that the waiver or reduction of the fee is in the best interest of the public, or that payment of the fee would impose an undue hardship upon the requester.


(iii) *FMCSA action.* FMCSA will notify the applicant of the decision to grant or deny the request for waiver or reduction.


(f) *Schedule of filing fees:*


---

[N] [80 FR 63702, Oct. 21, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 59035, Sept. 29, 2022]


