# § 220.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part the term:


*2 CFR part 200,* means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).


*Act* means the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.


*Applicable credits* shall have the meaning established in 2 CFR part 200 and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.


*Breakfast* means a meal which meets the meal requirements set out in § 220.8, and which is served to a child in the morning hours. The meal must be served at or close to the beginning of the child's day at school.


*Child* means:


(1) A student of high school grade or under as determined by the State educational agency, who is enrolled in an educational unit of high school grade or under as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of “School” in this section, including students with a disability who participate in a school program established for persons with disabilities; or


(2) A person under 21 chronological years of age who is enrolled in an institution or center as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of “School” in this section.


*Contractor* means a commercial enterprise, public or nonprofit private organization or individual that enters into a contract with a school food authority.


*Cost reimbursable contract* means a contract that provides for payment of incurred costs to the extent prescribed in the contract, with or without a fixed fee.


*Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Distributing Agency* means a State agency which enters into an agreement with the Department for the distribution to schools of donated foods pursuant to part 250 of this chapter.


*Fiscal year* means a period of 12 calendar months beginning on October 1 of any year and ending September 30 of the following year.


*Fixed fee* means an agreed upon amount that is fixed at the inception of the contract. In a cost reimbursable contract, the fixed fee includes the contractor's direct and indirect administrative costs and profit allocable to the contract.


*Fixed-price contract* means a contract that charges a fixed cost per meal, or a fixed cost for a certain time period. Fixed-price contracts may include an economic price adjustment tied to a standard index.


*FNS* means the Food and Nutrition Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*FNSRO* means the appropriate Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.


*Food item* means a specific food offered within a meal component.


*Free breakfast* means a breakfast served under the Program to a child from a household eligible for such benefits under part 245 of this chapter and for which neither the child nor any member of the household pays or is required to work.


*Infant cereal* means any iron fortified dry cereal especially formulated and generally recognized as cereal for infants that is routinely mixed with breast milk or iron-fortified infant formula prior to consumption.


*Infant formula* means any iron-fortified infant formula intended for dietary use solely as a food for normal healthy infants excluding those formulas specifically formulated for infants with inborn errors of metabolism or digestive or absorptive problems. Infant formula, as served, must be in liquid state at recommended dilution.


*Local educational agency* means a public board of education or other public or private nonprofit authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service function for, public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools in a city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or for a combination of school districts or counties that is recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools. The term also includes any other public or private nonprofit institution or agency having administrative control and direction of a public or private nonprofit elementary school or secondary school, including residential child care institutions, Bureau of Indian Affairs schools, and educational service agencies and consortia of those agencies, as well as the State educational agency in a State or territory in which the State educational agency is the sole educational agency for all public or private nonprofit schools.


*Meal component* means one of the food groups which comprise reimbursable meals. The meal components are: fruits, vegetables, grains, meats/meat alternates, and fluid milk.


*National School Lunch Program* means the Program authorized by the National School Lunch Act.


*Net cash resources* means all monies as determined in accordance with the State agency's established accounting system, that are available to or have accrued to a School Food Authority's nonprofit school food service at any given time, less cash payable. Such monies may include but are not limited to, cash on hand, cash receivable, earnings or investments, cash on deposit and the value of stocks, bonds or other negotiable securities.


*Nonprofit* means, when applied to schools or institutions eligible for the Program, exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


*Nonprofit school food service* means all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of school children, all of the revenue from which is used solely for the operation or improvement of such food service.


*Nonprofit school food service account* means the restricted account in which all of the revenue from all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of school children is retained and used only for the operation or improvement of the nonprofit school food service.


*OIG* means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.


*Program* means the School Breakfast Program.


*Reduced price breakfast* means a breakfast served under the Program:


(1) To a child from a household eligible for such benefits under part 245 of this chapter;


(2) For which the price is less than the school food authority designated full price of the breakfast and which does not exceed the maximum allowable reduced price specified under part 245 of this chapter; and


(3) For which neither the child nor any member of the household is required to work.


*Reimbursement* means Federal cash assistance including advances paid or payable to participating schools for breakfasts meeting the requirements of § 220.8 served to eligible children.


*Revenue* when applied to nonprofit school food service means all monies received by or accruing to the nonprofit school food service in accordance with the State agency's established accounting system including, but not limited to, children's payments, earnings on investments, other local revenues, State revenues, and Federal cash reimbursements.


*School* means:


(1) An educational unit of high school grade or under, recognized as part of the educational system in the State and operating under public or nonprofit private ownership in a single building or complex of buildings;


(2) Any public or nonprofit private classes of preprimary grade when they are conducted in the aforementioned schools; or


(3) Any public or nonprofit private residential child care institution, or distinct part of such institution, which operates principally for the care of children, and, if private, is licensed to provide residential child care services under the appropriate licensing code by the State or a subordinate level of government, except for residential summer camps which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children, Job Corps centers funded by the Department of Labor, and private foster homes.


*School Breakfast Program* means the program authorized by section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.


*School in severe need* means a school determined to be eligible for rates of reimbursement in excess of the prescribed National Average Payment Factors, based upon the criteria set forth in § 220.9(d).


*School food authority* means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools; and has legal authority to operate the Program therein *or* be otherwise approved by FNS to operate the Program.


*School week* means the period of time used to determine compliance with the meal requirements in § 220.8. The period must be a normal school week of five consecutive days; however, to accommodate shortened weeks resulting from holidays and other scheduling needs, the period must be a minimum of three consecutive days and a maximum of seven consecutive days. Weeks in which school breakfasts are offered less than three times must be combined with either the previous or the coming week.


*Seamless Summer Option* means the meal service alternative authorized by Section 13(a)(8) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1761(a)(8), under which public or nonprofit school food authorities participating in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program offer meals at no cost to children during the traditional summer vacation periods and, for year-round schools, vacation periods longer than 10 school days.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture.


*State* means any of the 50 States, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and, as applicable, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.


*State agency* means:


(1) The State educational agency;


(2) Such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer the Program in schools as specified in § 210.3(b) of this chapter; or


(3) The FNSRO, where the FNSRO administers the Program as specified in § 210.3(c) of this chapter.


*State educational agency* means, as the State legislature may determine:


(1) The chief State school officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or


(2) A board of education controlling the State department of education.


*Tofu* means a soybean-derived food, made by a process in which soybeans are soaked, ground, mixed with water, heated, filtered, coagulated, and formed into cakes. Basic ingredients are whole soybeans, one or more food-grade coagulants (typically a salt or an acid), and water. Tofu products must conform to FNS guidance to count toward the meats/meat alternates component.


*USDA implementing regulations* include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.


*Whole grain-rich* is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched.


*Whole grains* means grains that consist of the intact, ground, cracked, or flaked grain seed whose principal anatomical components—the starchy endosperm, germ and bran—are present in the same relative proportions as they exist in the intact grain seed.


*Yogurt* means commercially prepared coagulated milk products obtained by the fermentation of specific bacteria, that meet milk fat or milk solid requirements and to which flavoring foods or ingredients may be added. These products are covered by the Food and Drug Administration's Definition and Standard of Identity for yogurt, 21 CFR 131.200, and low-fat yogurt and non-fat yogurt covered as a standardized food under 21 CFR 130.10.



---

[N] [Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34758, Aug. 17, 1976]


