# § 60.5870b   What are my reporting and notification requirements?

(a) In lieu of the annual report required under § 60.25(e) and (f), you must report the information in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) You must submit an annual report to the EPA that must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section. For each calendar year reporting period the report must be submitted by March 1 of the following year.


(1) The report must include the emissions performance achieved by each affected EGU during the reporting period and identification of whether each affected EGU is in compliance with its standard of performance during the compliance period, as specified in the State plan.


(2) The report must include, for each affected EGU, a comparison of the CO_2_ standard of performance in the State plan versus the actual CO_2_ emission performance achieved.


(3) The report must include, for each affected EGU, the sum of the CO_2_ emissions, the sum of the gross energy output, and the sum of the heat input for each fuel type.


(4) Enforcement actions initiated against affected EGUs during the reporting period, under any standard of performance or compliance schedule of the State plan.


(5) Identification of the achievement of any increment of progress required by the applicable State plan during the reporting period.


(6) Identification of designated facilities that have ceased operation during the reporting period.


(7) Submission of emission inventory data as described in paragraph (a) of this section for designated facilities that were not in operation at the time of State plan development but began operation during the reporting period.


(8) Submission of additional data as necessary to update the information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section or in previous progress reports.


(9) Submission of copies of technical reports on all performance testing on designated facilities conducted under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, complete with concurrently recorded process data.


(10) The report must include all other required information, as specified in your State plan according to § 60.5740b.


(c) If you include provisions for the compliance date extension, described in § 60.5740b(a)(11), in your State plan, you must report to the EPA the information listed in § 60.5740b(a)(11)(i).


(d) If you include provisions for the short-term reliability mechanism, described in § 60.5740b(a)(12), in your State plan, you must report to the EPA the following information for each event, listed in § 60.5740b(a)(12)(iii).


(e) If you include provisions for the reliability assurance mechanism, described in § 60.5740b(a)(13) in your State plan, you must report to the EPA the information listed in § 60.5740b(a)(13)(vi).






