# § 3406.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Authorized departmental officer* means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary. 


*Authorized organizational representative* means the president of the 1890 Institution or the official, designated by the president of the institution, who has the authority to commit the resources of the institution. 


*Budget period* means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes. 


*Cash contributions* means the applicant's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the applicant by non-Federal third parties. 


*Citizen or national of the United States* means: 


(1) A citizen or native resident of a State; or, 


(2) a person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States. 


*College* or *University* means an educational institution in any State which: 


(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; 


(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education; 


(3) Provides an educational program for which a baccalaureate degree or any other higher degree is awarded; 


(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and 


(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association. 


*Complementary project proposal* means a proposal for a project which involves coordination with one or more other projects for which funding was awarded under this program in a previous fiscal year, or for which funding is requested under this program in the current fiscal year. 


*Cost-sharing* or *Matching* means that portion of project costs not borne by the Federal Government, including the value of in-kind contributions. 


*Department* or *USDA* means the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*1890 Institution* or *1890 land-grant institution* or *1890 colleges and universities* means one of those institutions eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417-419, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), or a research foundation maintained by such institution, that are the intended recipients of funds under programs established in Subtitle G of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3221 *et seq.*), including Tuskegee University. 


*Eligible participant* means, for purposes of § 3406.11(b), Faculty Preparation and Enhancement for Teaching, and § 3406.11(f), Student Recruitment and Retention, an individual who: 


(1) Is a citizen or national of the United States, as defined in this section; or 


(2) Is a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau. Where eligibility is claimed under paragraph (2) of the definition of “citizen or national of the United States” as specified in this section, documentary evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service as to such eligibility must be made available to NIFA upon request. 


*Food and agricultural sciences* means basic, applied, and developmental research, extension, and teaching activities in the food, agricultural, renewable natural resources, forestry, and physical and social sciences, in the broadest sense of these terms, including but not limited to, activities concerned with the production, processing, marketing, distribution, conservation, consumption, research, and development of food and agriculturally related products and services, and inclusive of programs in agriculture, natural resources, aquaculture, forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, rural development, and closely allied disciplines. 


*Grantee* means the 1890 Institution designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded. 


*Joint project proposal* means a proposal for a project, which will involve the applicant 1890 Institution and two or more other colleges, universities, community colleges, junior colleges, or other institutions, each of which will assume a major role in the conduct of the proposed project, and for which the applicant institution will transfer at least one-half of the awarded funds to the other institutions participating in the project. Only the applicant institution must meet the definition of “1890 Institution” as specified in this section; the other institutions participating in a joint project proposal are not required to meet the definition of “1890 Institution” as specified in this section, nor required to meet the definition of “college” or “university” as specified in this section. 


*Peer review panel* means a group of experts or consultants, qualified by training and experience in particular fields of science, education, or technology to give expert advice on the merit of grant applications in such fields, who evaluate eligible proposals submitted to this program in their personal area(s) of expertise. 


*Principal investigator/project director* means the single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary who is responsible for the direction and management of the project. 


*Prior approval* means written approval evidencing prior consent by an “authorized departmental officer” as defined in this section. 


*Project* means the particular teaching or research activity within the scope of one or more of the targeted areas supported by a grant awarded under this program. 


*Project period* means the period, as stated in the award document and modifications thereto, if any, during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends. 


*Research* means any systematic inquiry directed toward new or fuller knowledge and understanding of the subject studied. 


*Research capacity* means the quality and depth of an institution's research infrastructure as evidenced by its: faculty expertise in the natural or social sciences, scientific and technical resources, research environment, library resources, and organizational structures and reward systems for attracting and retaining first-rate research faculty or students at the graduate and post-doctorate levels. 


*Research project grant* means a grant in support of a project that addresses one or more of the targeted need areas or specific subject matter/emphasis areas identified in the annual program announcement related to strengthening research programs including, but not limited to, such initiatives as: Studies and experimentation in food and agricultural sciences, centralized research support systems, technology delivery systems, and other creative projects designed to provide needed enhancement of the Nation's food and agricultural research system. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated. 


*State* means any one of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia. 


*Teaching* means formal classroom instruction, laboratory instruction, and practicum experience in the food and agricultural sciences and matters related thereto (such as faculty development, student recruitment and services, curriculum development, instructional materials and equipment, and innovative teaching methodologies) conducted by colleges and universities offering baccalaureate or higher degrees. 


*Teaching capacity* means the quality and depth of an institution's academic programs infrastructure as evidenced by its: Curriculum, teaching faculty, instructional delivery systems, student experiential learning opportunities, scientific instrumentation for teaching, library resources, academic standing and racial, ethnic, or gender diversity of its faculty and student body as well as faculty and student recruitment and retention programs provided by a college or university in order to achieve maximum results in the development of scientific and professional expertise for the Nation's food and agricultural system. 


*Teaching project grant* means a grant in support of a project that addresses one or more of the targeted need areas or specific subject matter/emphasis areas identified in the annual program announcement related to strengthening teaching programs including, but not limited to, such initiatives as: Curricula design and materials development, faculty preparation and enhancement for teaching, instruction delivery systems, scientific instrumentation for teaching, student experiential learning, and student recruitment and retention. 


*Third party in-kind contributions* means non-cash contributions of property or services provided by non-Federal third parties, including real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to a funded project or program. 


*USDA agency cooperator* means any agency or office of the Department which has reviewed and endorsed an applicant's request for support, and indicates a willingness to make available non-monetary resources or technical assistance throughout the life of a project to ensure the accomplishment of the objectives of a grant awarded under this program. 



---

[N] [62 FR 39331, July 22, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 4810, Jan. 27, 2011]




