# ยง 184.1985   Aminopeptidase enzyme preparation derived from lactococcus lactis.

(a) Aminopeptidase enzyme preparation is derived from the nonpathogenic and nontoxicogenic bacterium *Lactococcus lactis* (previously named *Streptococcus lactis*). The preparation contains the enzyme aminopeptidase (CAS Reg. No. 9031-94-1; EC 3.4.11.1) and other peptidases that hydrolyze milk proteins. The preparation is produced by pure culture fermentation.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications for enzyme preparations in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d ed. (1981), pp. 107-110, which are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitations other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an enzyme, as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(9) of this chapter, as an optional ingredient for flavor development in the manufacture of cheddar cheese, in accordance with ยง 133.113 of this chapter, and in the preparation of protein hydrolysates.


(2) The ingredient is used at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.



---

[N] [60 FR 54193, Oct. 20, 1995, as amended at 78 FR 14667, Mar. 7, 2013]




