# § 3109.20   Units of the National Park System.

(a) Oil and gas leasing in units of the National Park System will be governed by 43 CFR part 3100 and all operations conducted on a lease or permit in such units will be governed by 43 CFR parts 3160 and 3180.


(b) Any lease or permit respecting minerals in units of the National Park System may be issued or renewed only with the consent of the Regional Director, National Park Service. Such consent will only be granted upon a determination by the Regional Director that the activity permitted under the lease or permit will not have significant adverse effect upon the resources or administration of the unit pursuant to the authorizing legislation of the unit. Any lease or permit issued will be subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Regional Director to protect the surface and significant resources of the unit, to preserve their use for public recreation, and to the condition that site specific approval of any activity on the lease will only be given upon concurrence by the Regional Director. All lease applications received for reclamation withdrawn lands will also be submitted to the Bureau of Reclamation for review.


(c) The units subject to the regulations in this part are those units of land and water which are shown on the following maps on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Director of the National Park Service and in the Superintendent's Office of each unit. The boundaries of these units may be revised by the Secretary as authorized in the Acts.


(1) Lake Mead National Recreation Area—The map identified as “boundary map, 8360-80013B, revised February 1986.


(2) Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area—The map identified as “Proposed Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area,” numbered BOR-WST 1004, dated July 1963.


(3) Ross Lake and Lake Chelan National Recreation Areas—The map identified as “Proposed Management Units, North Cascades, Washington,” numbered NP-CAS-7002, dated October 1967.


(4) Glen Canyon National Recreation Area—the map identified as “boundary map, Glen Canyon National Recreation Area,” numbered GLC-91,006, dated August 1972.


(d) The following excepted units will not be open to mineral leasing:


(1) *Lake Mead National Recreation Area.* (i) All waters of Lakes Mead and Mohave and all lands within 300 feet of those lakes measured horizontally from the shoreline at maximum surface elevation;


(ii) All lands within the unit of supervision of the Bureau of Reclamation around Hoover and Davis Dams and all lands outside of resource utilization zones as designated by the Superintendent on the map (602-2291B, dated October 1987) of Lake Mead National Recreation Area which is available for inspection in the Office of the Superintendent.


(2) *Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.* (i) All waters of Whiskeytown Lake and all lands within 1 mile of that lake measured from the shoreline at maximum surface elevation;


(ii) All lands classified as high-density recreation, general outdoor recreation, outstanding natural and historic, as shown on the map numbered 611-20,004B, dated April 1979, entitled “Land Classification, Whiskeytown Unit, Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.” This map is available for public inspection in the Office of the Superintendent;


(iii) All lands within section 34 of Township 33 north, Range 7 west, Mt. Diablo Meridian.


(3) *Ross Lake and Lake Chelan National Recreation Areas.* (i) All of Lake Chelan National Recreation Area;


(ii) All lands within 
1/2 mile of Gorge, Diablo and Ross Lakes measured from the shoreline at maximum surface elevation;


(iii) All lands proposed for or designated as wilderness;


(iv) All lands within 
1/2 mile of State Highway 20;


(v) Pyramid Lake Research Natural Area and all lands within 
1/2 mile of its boundaries.


(4) *Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.* Those units closed to mineral disposition within the natural zone, development zone, cultural zone and portions of the recreation and resource utilization zone as shown on the map numbered 80,022A, dated March 1980, entitled “Mineral Management Plan—Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.” This map is available for public inspection in the Office of the Superintendent and the office of the BLM State Offices, Arizona and Utah.






