# § 86.1861-17   How do the NMOG + NO

You may use emission credits for purposes of certification to show compliance with the applicable fleet average NMOG+NO_X_ standards from §§ 86.1811 and 86.1816 and the fleet average evaporative emission standards from § 86.1813 as described in 40 CFR part 1037, subpart H, with certain exceptions and clarifications as specified in this section. MDPVs are subject to the same provisions of this section that apply to LDT4.


(a) Calculate emission credits as described in this paragraph (a) instead of using the provisions of 40 CFR 1037.705. Calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the applicable fleet average standard. Calculate positive emission credits if your fleet average level is below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits if your fleet average value is above the standard. Calculate credits separately for each applicable fleet average standard and calculate total credits for each averaging set as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Convert units from mg/mile to g/mile as needed for performing calculations. Calculate emission credits using the following equation, rounded to the nearest whole number:


(b) The following restrictions apply instead of those specified in 40 CFR 1037.740:


(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, emission credits may be exchanged only within an averaging set, as follows:


(i) HDV represent a separate averaging set with respect to all emission standards.


(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, light-duty program vehicles represent a single averaging set with respect to all emission standards. Note that FTP and SFTP credits for Tier 3 vehicles are not interchangeable.


(iii) LDV and LDT1 certified to standards based on a useful life of 120,000 miles and 10 years together represent a single averaging set with respect to NMOG+NO_X_ emission standards. Note that FTP and SFTP credits for Tier 3 vehicles are not interchangeable.


(iv) The following separate averaging sets apply for evaporative emission standards:


(A) LDV and LDT1 together represent a single averaging set.


(B) LDT2 represents a single averaging set.


(C) HLDT represents a single averaging set.


(D) HDV represents a single averaging set.


(2) You may exchange evaporative emission credits across averaging sets as follows if you need additional credits to offset a deficit after the final year of maintaining deficit credits as allowed under paragraph (c) of this section:


(i) You may exchange LDV/LDT1 and LDT2 emission credits.


(ii) You may exchange HLDT and HDV emission credits.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, credits expire after five years.


For example, credits you generate in model year 2018 may be used only through model year 2023.


(4) For the Tier 3 declining fleet average FTP and SFTP emission standards for NMOG+NO_X_ described in § 86.1811-17(b)(8), credits generated in model years 2017 through 2024 expire after eight years, or after model year 2030, whichever comes first; however, these credits may not be traded after five years. This extended credit life also applies for small-volume manufacturers generating credits under § 86.1811-17(h)(1) in model years 2022 through 2024. Note that the longer credit life does not apply for heavy-duty vehicles, for vehicles certified under the alternate phase-in described in § 86.1811-17(b)(9), or for vehicles generating early Tier 3 credits under § 86.1811-17(b)(11) in model year 2017.


(5) Tier 3 credits for NMOG+NO_X_ may be used to demonstrate compliance with Tier 4 standards without adjustment, except as specified in § 86.1811-27(b)(6)(ii).


(6) A manufacturer may generate NMOG+NO_X_ credits from model year 2027 through 2032 electric vehicles that qualify as MDPV and use those credits for certifying medium-duty vehicles, as follows:


(i) Calculate generated credits separately for qualifying vehicles. Calculate generated credits by multiplying the applicable standard for light-duty program vehicles by the sales volume of qualifying vehicles in a given model year.


(ii) Apply generated credits to eliminate any deficit for light-duty program vehicles before using them to certify medium-duty vehicles.


(iii) Apply the credit provisions of this section as specified, except that you may not buy or sell credits generated under this paragraph (b)(6).


(iv) Describe in annual credit reports how you are generating certain credit quantities under this paragraph (b)(6). Also describe in your end of year credit report how you will use those credits for certifying light-duty program vehicles or medium-duty vehicles in a given model year.


(c) The credit-deficit provisions 40 CFR 1037.745 apply to the NMOG+NO_X_ and evaporative emission standards for Tier 3 and Tier 4 vehicles. Credit-deficit provisions are not affected by the transition from Tier 3 to Tier 4 standards.


(d) The reporting and recordkeeping provisions of § 86.1862 apply instead of those specified in 40 CFR 1037.730 and 1037.735.


(e) The provisions of 40 CFR 1037.645 do not apply.


(f) The enforcement provisions described in § 86.1865-12(j)(3) apply with respect to NMOG+NO_X_ emission credits under this section for battery electric vehicles that do not conform to battery durability requirements in § 86.1815-27.





---

[N] [89 FR 28190, Apr. 18, 2024]














