# § 149.2   Importer security filing—requirement, time of transmission, verification of information, update, withdrawal, compliance date.

(a) *Importer security filing required.* For cargo arriving by vessel, with the exception of any bulk cargo pursuant to § 149.4(a) of this part, the ISF Importer, as defined in § 149.1 of this part, or authorized agent (*see* § 149.5 of this part) must submit in English the Importer Security Filing elements prescribed in § 149.3 of this part within the time specified in paragraph (b) of this section via a CBP-approved electronic interchange system.


(b) *Time of transmission.* With the exception of any break bulk cargo pursuant to § 149.4(b) of this part, ISF Importers must submit:


(1) Seller, buyer, importer of record number / foreign trade zone applicant identification number, and consignee number(s) (as defined in § 149.3(a)(1) through (4) of this part) no later than 24 hours before the cargo is laden aboard the vessel at the foreign port.


(2) Manufacturer (or supplier), ship to party, country of origin, and commodity HTSUS number (as defined in § 149.3(a)(5) through (8) of this part) no later than 24 hours before the cargo is laden aboard the vessel at the foreign port.


(3) Container stuffing location and consolidator (stuffer) (as defined in § 149.3(a)(9) and (10) of this part) as early as possible, in no event later than 24 hours prior to arrival in a United States port (or upon lading at a foreign port that is less than a 24 hour voyage to the closest United States port).


(4) The data elements required under § 149.3(b) of this part for FROB, prior to lading aboard the vessel at the foreign port.


(5) The data elements required under § 149.3(b) of this part for shipments intended to be transported in-bond as an immediate exportation (IE) or transportation and exportation (T&E), no later than 24 hours before cargo is laden aboard the vessel at the foreign port.


(c) *Verification of information.* Where the party electronically presenting to CBP the Importer Security Filing required in paragraph (a) of this section receives any of this information from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the presenting party acquired such information, and whether and how the presenting party is able to verify this information. Where the presenting party is not reasonably able to verify such information, CBP will permit the party to electronically present the information on the basis of what the party reasonably believes to be true.


(d) *Update of Importer Security Filing.* The party who submitted the Importer Security Filing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must update the filing if, after the filing is submitted and before the goods enter the limits of a port in the United States, any of the information submitted changes or more accurate information becomes available.


(e) *Withdrawal of Importer Security Filing.* If, after an Importer Security Filing is submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the goods associated with the Importer Security Filing are no longer intended to be imported to the United States, the party who submitted the Importer Security Filing must withdraw the Importer Security Filing and transmit to CBP the reason for such withdrawal.


(f) *Flexible requirements.* For each of the four data elements required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section ISF Importers will be permitted to submit an initial response or responses based on the best available data available at the time that, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, ISF Importers will be required to update as soon as more precise or more accurate information is available, in no event less than 24 hours prior to arrival at a U.S. port (or upon lading at a foreign port that is less than a 24 hour voyage to the closest U.S. port).


(g) *Compliance date of this section.* (1) *General.* Subject to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, ISF Importers must comply with the requirements of this section on and after January 26, 2010.


(2) *Delay in compliance date of section.* CBP may, at its sole discretion, delay the general compliance date set forth in paragraph (g)(1) of this section in the event that any necessary modifications to the approved electronic data interchange system are not yet in place or for any other reason. Notice of any such delay will be provided in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71782, Nov. 25, 2008, as amended by USCBP-2007-0077, 74 FR 33922, July 14, 2009]




