# ยง 4270.6   Category designation.

(a) *Procedure.* Designated Product Categories are found in the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(1) *General.* In designating product categories, USDA will designate categories composed of generic groupings of specific products, Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks, or Complex Assemblies and will identify the minimum Biobased Content for each listed category or subcategory. As product categories are designated for procurement preference, they will be added to the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website at *biopreferred.gov.*

(i) *Adding new product categories to the Register of Designated Categories.* If a product does not fall within a Defined Product Category that has been designated by USDA at the time the application for certification is submitted, the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content is 30 percent, and it will be listed in the other product category. USDA will evaluate the viability of designating new product categories to categorize products in the other product category more appropriately, following the procedure described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) New Defined Product Categories that are identified during the category evaluation process will be added to the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*). Using the data gathered during the certification process, USDA will establish a provisional category name, definition, and minimum Biobased Content for each new product category based on the product(s) that fall within the new category.


(B) The provisional minimum will be in place for a period of six months following the addition of the new Defined Product Category to the Register of Designated Categories. During that time, any product that falls within the category based on the category definition and has a Biobased Content that is either at least 30 percent or within 30 percentage points of the provisional minimum, whichever is higher, will be considered for inclusion.


(C) After a period of six months following the addition of the new product category to the Register of Designated Categories, USDA will re-evaluate the provisional category name, description, and minimum Biobased Content based on the data gathered during the year. At that time, USDA will make final the product category name, description, and minimum Biobased Content, and the category will no longer be considered provisional.


(D) Procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, are encouraged to give a procurement preference for Qualified Biobased Products that falls within provisionally designated categories and are required to give a procurement preference for Qualified Biobased Products that falls within designated categories no later than six months after the finalized product category is added to the Register of Designated Categories. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for products to be procured will ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of Biobased Products that fall within the designated categories.


(ii) *Revising Defined Product Categories on the Register of Designated Categories.* USDA will periodically evaluate the need to update the product categories included in the Register of Designated Categories by reviewing items including, but not limited to, the category names, definitions, minimum Biobased Contents, subcategories, and the need for the category or subcategory. If the data support making updates, USDA will amend the category and publish the updated category to the Register of Designated Categories. No later than six months after the amended category is published to the Register of Designated Categories, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for Qualified Biobased Products that fall within the amended designated category. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for products to be procured will ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of Biobased Products that fall within the designated categories.


(2) *Public comments.* Interested parties, including manufacturers, vendors, groups of manufacturers and/or vendors, and trade associations may propose an alternative Applicable Minimum Biobased Content for a new, provisional, defined, or Designated Product Category by, in consultation with USDA, developing and conducting an analysis to support the proposed alternative Applicable Minimum Biobased Content. If approved by USDA, the proposed alternative Applicable Minimum Biobased Content would become the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content for products that fall within that category to be certified.


(3) *Continued eligibility.* If the applicable required minimum Biobased Content for a product to be eligible to participate in the BioPreferred Program is revised by USDA, the product will remain certified or qualified, as applicable, only if it meets the new minimum Biobased Content level. In those cases where the Biobased Content of a certified or qualified product fails to meet the new minimum Biobased Content level, USDA will notify the Participating Organization that their certification is no longer valid. Such Participating Organizations must notify USDA of their intent to increase the Biobased Content of their product to a level at or above the new minimum Biobased Content level within 120 Days and must re-apply for certification within an additional 120 Days if they wish to continue to participate in the Program. The affected product's certification will expire if the Participating Organization does not notify USDA of the intent to reformulate within 120 Days or if the Participating Organization does not re-apply within the additional 120 Days. Participating Organizations who have re-applied for certification may continue using the existing USDA Certified Biobased Product Label until they receive notification from USDA on the results of their re-application for certification.


(b) *Considerations.* (1) In designating product categories, USDA will consider the availability of Qualified Biobased Products and the economic and technological feasibility of using such products, including price. USDA will gather information on individual Qualified Biobased Products within a category and extrapolate that information to the category level for consideration in designating product categories.


(2) In designating product categories for the BioPreferred Program, USDA will consider as eligible only those products that use innovative approaches in growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of the Biobased Product. USDA will consider products that meet one or more of the criteria in ยง 4270.4(b)(1) and (2) to be eligible for the BioPreferred Program. USDA will also consider other documentation of innovative approaches in growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of Biobased Products on a case-by-case basis.






