# ยง 18.412   Reasonable accommodation.

(a) A recipient shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of a handicapped applicant or employee if such accommodation would enable that person to perform the essential functions of the job unless the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its program or activity.


(b) Reasonable accommodation may include:


(1) Making facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons; and


(2) Job restructuring, part-time or modified work schedules, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, the provision of readers or interpreters and other similar actions.


(c) In determining under paragraph (a) of this section whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of a recipient's program or activity, factors to be considered include:


(1) The overall size of the recipient's program or activity with respect to number of employees, number and type of facilities, and size of budget;


(2) The type of the recipient's operation, including the composition and structure of the recipient's work force; and


(3) The nature and cost of the accommodation needed.


(d) A recipient may not deny any employment opportunity to a qualified handicapped employee or applicant if the basis for denial is the need to make reasonable accommodation to the physical or mental limitations of the employee or applicant.



---

[N] [45 FR 63268, Sept. 24, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 10385, Mar. 26, 1986; 68 FR 51370, Aug. 26, 2003]




