# § 274a.14   Termination of employment authorization.

(a) *Automatic termination of employment authorization.* (1) Employment authorization granted under § 274a.12(c) of this chapter shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of one of the following events:


(i) The expiration date specified by the Service on the employment authorization document is reached;


(ii) Exclusion or deportation proceedings are instituted (however, this shall not preclude the authorization of employment pursuant to § 274a.12(c) of this part where appropriate); or


(iii) The alien is granted voluntary departure.


(2) Termination of employment authorization pursuant to this paragraph does not require the service of a notice of intent to revoke; employment authorization terminates upon the occurrence of any event enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


However, automatic revocation under this section does not preclude reapplication for employment authorization under § 274.12(c) of this part. 


(b) *Revocation of employment authorization*—(1) *Basis for revocation of employment authorization.* Employment authorization granted under § 274a.12(c) of this chapter may be revoked by the district director: 


(i) Prior to the expiration date, when it appears that any condition upon which it was granted has not been met or no longer exists, or for good cause shown; or 


(ii) Upon a showing that the information contained in the application is not true and correct. 


(2) *Notice of intent to revoke employment authorization.* When a district director determines that employment authorization should be revoked prior to the expiration date specified by the Service, he or she shall serve written notice of intent to revoke the employment authorization. The notice will cite the reasons indicating that revocation is warranted. The alien will be granted a period of fifteen days from the date of service of the notice within which to submit countervailing evidence. The decision by the district director shall be final and no appeal shall lie from the decision to revoke the authorization. 


(c) *Automatic termination of temporary employment authorization granted prior to June 1, 1987.* (1) Temporary employment authorization granted prior to June 1, 1987, pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c) (§ 109.1(b) contained in the 8 CFR edition revised as of January 1, 1987), shall automatically terminate on the date specified by the Service on the document issued to the alien, or on December 31, 1996, whichever is earlier. Automatic termination of temporary employment authorization does not preclude a subsequent application for temporary employment authorization.


(2) A document issued by the Service prior to June 1, 1987, that authorized temporary employment authorization for any period beyond December 31, 1996, is null and void pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The alien shall be issued a new employment authorization document upon application to the Service if the alien is eligible for temporary employment authorization pursuant to 274A.12(c).


(3) No notice of intent to revoke is necessary for the automatic termination of temporary employment authorization pursuant to this part.



---

[N] [52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8614, Mar. 16, 1988; 53 FR 20087, June 1, 1988; 61 FR 46537, Sept. 4, 1996; 85 FR 38628, June 26, 2020; 87 FR 57799, Sept. 22, 2022]




