# § 153.510   Risk corridors establishment and payment methodology.

(a) *General requirement.* A QHP issuer must adhere to the requirements set by HHS in this subpart and in the annual HHS notice of benefit and payment parameters for the establishment and administration of a program of risk corridors for calendar years 2014, 2015, and 2016.


(b) *HHS payments to health insurance issuers.* QHP issuers will receive payment from HHS in the following amounts, under the following circumstances:


(1) When a QHP's allowable costs for any benefit year are more than 103 percent but not more than 108 percent of the target amount, HHS will pay the QHP issuer an amount equal to 50 percent of the allowable costs in excess of 103 percent of the target amount; and


(2) When a QHP's allowable costs for any benefit year are more than 108 percent of the target amount, HHS will pay to the QHP issuer an amount equal to the sum of 2.5 percent of the target amount plus 80 percent of allowable costs in excess of 108 percent of the target amount.


(c) *Health insurance issuers' remittance of charges.* QHP issuers must remit charges to HHS in the following amounts, under the following circumstances:


(1) If a QHP's allowable costs for any benefit year are less than 97 percent but not less than 92 percent of the target amount, the QHP issuer must remit charges to HHS in an amount equal to 50 percent of the difference between 97 percent of the target amount and the allowable costs; and


(2) When a QHP's allowable costs for any benefit year are less than 92 percent of the target amount, the QHP issuer must remit charges to HHS in an amount equal to the sum of 2.5 percent of the target amount plus 80 percent of the difference between 92 percent of the target amount and the allowable costs.


(d) *Charge submission deadline.* A QHP issuer must remit charges to HHS within 30 days after notification of such charges.


(e) A QHP issuer is not subject to the provisions of this subpart with respect to a stand-alone dental plan.


(f) *Eligibility under health insurance market rules.* The provisions of this subpart apply only for plans offered by a QHP issuer in the SHOP or the individual or small group market, as determined according to the employee counting method applicable under State law, that are subject to the following provisions: §§ 147.102, 147.104, 147.106, 147.150, 156.80, and subpart B of part 156 of this subchapter.


(g) *Adjustment to risk corridors payments and charges.* If an issuer reported a certified estimate of 2014 cost-sharing reductions on its 2014 MLR and Risk Corridors Annual Reporting Form that is lower than the actual value of cost-sharing reductions calculated under § 156.430(c) of this subchapter for the 2014 benefit year, HHS will make an adjustment to the amount of the issuer's 2015 benefit year risk corridors payment or charge measured by the full difference between the certified estimate of 2014 cost-sharing reductions reported and the actual value of cost-sharing reductions provided as calculated under § 156.430(c) for the 2014 benefit year.



---

[N] [77 FR 17248, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 15530, Mar. 11, 2013; 78 FR 65094, Oct. 30, 2013; 79 FR 13836, Mar. 11, 2014; 81 FR 12334, Mar. 8, 2016]




