# § 31.6001-4   Additional records under Federal Unemployment Tax Act.

(a) *Records of employers.* Every employer liable for tax under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act for any calendar year shall, with respect to each such year, keep such records as are necessary to establish—


(1) The total amount of remuneration (including any sum withheld therefrom as tax or for any other reason) paid to his employees during the calendar year for services performed after 1938.


(2) The amount of such remuneration which constitutes wages subject to the tax. See § 31.3306(b)-1 through § 31.3306(b)(8)-1.


(3) The amount of contributions paid by him into each State unemployment fund, with respect to services subject to the law of such State, showing separately (i) payments made and neither deducted nor to be deducted from the remuneration of his employees, and (ii) payments made and deducted or to be deducted from the remuneration of his employees.


(4) The information required to be shown on the prescribed return and the extent to which the employer is liable for the tax.


(5) If the total remuneration paid (paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and the amount thereof which is subject to the tax (paragraph (a)(2) of this section) are not equal, the reason therefor.


(6) To the extent material to a determination of tax liability, the dates, in each calendar quarter, on which each employee performed services not in the course of the employer's trade or business, and the amount of cash remuneration paid at any time for such services performed within such quarter See § 31.3306(c)(3)-1.


(b) *Records of persons who are not employers.* Any person who employs individuals in employment (see §§ 31.3306(c)-1 to 31.3306(c)-3, inclusive) during any calendar year but who considers that he is not an employer subject to the tax (see § 31.3306(a)-1) shall, with respect to each such year, be prepared to establish by proper records (including, where necessary, records of the number of employees employed each day) that he is not an employer subject to the tax.



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6658, 28 FR 6642, June 27, 1963]




