# ยง 78.14   Evidentiary hearing procedure.

(a) If a request for an evidentiary hearing is granted, the Presiding Officer will conduct a fair and impartial hearing on the record, take action to avoid unnecessary delay in the disposition of the proceedings, and maintain order. For these purposes, the Presiding Officer may:


(1) Administer oaths and affirmations.


(2) Regulate the course of the hearings and prehearing conferences and govern the conduct of participants.


(3) Examine witnesses.


(4) Identify and refer issues for interlocutory decision under ยง 78.19.


(5) Rule on, admit, exclude, or limit evidence.


(6) Establish the time for filing motions, testimony and other written evidence, and briefs and making other filings.


(7) Rule on motions and other pending procedural matters, including but not limited to motions for summary disposition in accordance with ยง 78.15.


(8) Order that the hearing be conducted in stages whenever the number of parties is large or the issues are numerous and complex.


(9) Allow direct and cross-examination of witnesses only to the extent the Presiding Officer determines that such direct and cross-examination may be necessary to resolve disputed issues of material fact; *provided* that no direct or cross-examination shall be allowed on questions of law or policy or regarding matters that are not subject to challenge in the evidentiary hearing.


(10) Limit public access to the hearing where necessary to protect confidential business information. The Presiding Officer will provide written notice of the hearing to the parties, and where the hearing will be open to the public, notice in the _Federal Register_ no later than 15 days (or other shorter, reasonable period established by the Presiding Officer) prior to commencement of the hearings.


(11) Take any other action not inconsistent with the provisions of this part for the maintenance of order at the hearing and for the expeditious, fair and impartial conduct of the proceeding.


(b) All direct and rebuttal testimony at an evidentiary hearing shall be filed in written form, unless, upon motion and good cause shown, the Presiding Officer, in his or her discretion, determines that oral presentation of such evidence on any particular factual issue will materially assist in the efficient resolution of the issue.


(c)(1) The Presiding Officer will admit all evidence that is not irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or otherwise unreliable or of little probative value. Evidence relating to settlement that would be excluded in the Federal courts under the Federal Rules of Evidence shall not be admissible.


(2) Whenever any evidence or testimony is excluded by the Presiding Officer as inadmissible, all such evidence will remain a part of the record as an offer of proof. The party seeking the admission of oral testimony may make an offer of proof by means of a brief statement on the record describing the testimony excluded.


(3) When two or more parties have substantially similar interests and positions, the Presiding Officer may limit the number of attorneys or authorized representatives who will be permitted to examine witnesses and to make and argue motions and objections on behalf of those parties.


(4) Rulings of the Presiding Officer on the admissibility of evidence or testimony, the propriety of direct and cross-examination, and other procedural matters will appear in the record of the hearing and control further proceedings unless reversed by the Presiding Officer or as a result of an interlocutory appeal taken under ยง 78.19.


(5) All objections shall be made promptly or be deemed waived; *provided* that parties shall be presumed to have taken exception to an adverse ruling. No objection shall be deemed waived by further participation in the hearing.



---

[N] [58 FR 3760, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 55488, Oct. 24, 1997; 86 FR 23180, Apr. 30, 2021]




