# § 2552.44   What is considered income for determining volunteer eligibility?

(a) For determining eligibility, “income” refers to total cash and in-kind receipts before taxes from all sources including:


(1) Money, wages, and salaries before any deduction;


(2) Receipts from self-employment or from a farm or business after deductions for business or farm expenses;


(3) Social Security, Unemployment or Workers Compensation, alimony, and military family allotments, or other legally required financial support from an absent family member or someone not living in the household.




(4) Government employee pensions, private pensions, regular insurance or annuity payments, and 401(k) or other retirement savings plans;


(5) Income from dividends, interest, net rents, royalties, or income from estates and trusts.


(b) For eligibility purposes, income does not refer to the following money receipts:


(1) Any assets drawn down as withdrawals from a bank, sale of property, house or car, tax refunds, gifts, one-time insurance payments or compensation from injury.


(2) Non-cash income, such as the bonus value of food and fuel produced and consumed on farms and the imputed value of rent from owner-occupied farm or non-farm housing.


(3) Regular payments for public assistance including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).


(4) Social Security Disability or any type of disability payment.


(5) Food or rent received in lieu of wages.



---

[N] [64 FR 14126, Mar. 24, 1999. Redesignated at 72 FR 48585, Aug. 24, 2007; 83 FR 64651, Dec. 17, 2018; 89 FR 70543, Aug. 30, 2024]




