# § 721.10497   Substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with silica and substituted silane (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with silica and substituted silane (PMNs P-06-276 and P-06-279) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b) (concentration set 1.0 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 5 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-certified air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tightfitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (full-face).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 58702, Sept. 21, 2012]




