# ยง 5.360   Housing programs: Additional lease provisions.

(a) *Inspections.* In addition to other inspections permitted under the lease, the leases for all Housing program tenants of projects for the elderly or persons with disabilities may state that the project owner may, after reasonable notice to the tenant and during reasonable hours, enter and inspect the premises. The lease shall permit entry and inspection only if the project owner has received a signed, written complaint alleging (or the project owner has reasonable grounds to believe) that the conduct or condition of a pet in the dwelling unit constitutes, under applicable State or local law, a nuisance or a threat to the health or safety of the occupants of the project or other persons in the community where the project is located.


(b) *Emergencies.* (1) If there is no State or local authority (or designated agent of such an authority) authorized under applicable State or local law to remove a pet that becomes vicious, displays symptoms of severe illness, or demonstrates other behavior that constitutes an immediate threat to the health or safety of the tenancy as a whole, the project owner may place a provision in tenant leases permitting the project owner to enter the premises (if necessary), remove the pet, and take such action with respect to the pet as may be permissible under State and local law, which may include placing it in a facility that will provide care and shelter for a period not to exceed 30 days.


(2) The lease shall permit the project owner to enter the premises and remove the pet or take such other permissible action only if the project owner requests the pet owner to remove the pet from the project immediately, and the pet owner refuses to do so, or if the project owner is unable to contact the pet owner to make a removal request. The lease may not contain a provision relieving the project owner from liability for wrongful removal of a pet. The cost of the animal care facility shall be paid as provided in ยง 5.363.


(3) The project owner may place a provision in tenant leases permitting the project owner to enter the premises, remove the pet, and place the pet in a facility that will provide care and shelter, in accordance with the provisions of ยง 5.363. The lease may not contain a provision relieving the project owner from liability for wrongful removal of a pet.




