# ยง 239.62   Liquidation accounts.

(a) *Liquidation account.* (1) A liquidation account represents the potential interest of eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders in the mutual holding company's net worth at the time of conversion. The resulting stock holding company must maintain a sub-account to reflect the interest of each account holder.


(2) Before the resulting stock holding company may provide a liquidation distribution to common stockholders, the resulting stock holding company must give a liquidation distribution to those eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders who hold savings accounts from the time of conversion until liquidation.


(3) The resulting stock holding company may not record the liquidation account in the financial statements. The resulting stock holding company must disclose the liquidation account in the footnotes to the financial statements.


(4) The initial balance of the liquidation account is the net worth in the statement of financial condition included in the final offering circular.


(b) *Liquidation sub-accounts.* (1)(i) The resulting stock holding company determines the initial sub-account balance for a savings account held by an eligible account holder by multiplying the initial balance of the liquidation account by the following fraction: The numerator is the qualifying deposit in the savings account on the eligibility record date. The denominator is total qualifying deposits of all eligible account holders on that date.


(ii) The resulting stock holding company determines the initial sub-account balance for a savings account held by a supplemental eligible account holder by multiplying the initial balance of the liquidation account by the following fraction: The numerator is the qualifying deposit in the savings account on the supplemental eligibility record date. The denominator is total qualifying deposits of all supplemental eligible account holders on that date.


(iii) If an account holder holds a savings account on the eligibility record date and a separate savings account on the supplemental eligibility record date, the resulting stock holding company must compute separate sub-accounts for the qualifying deposits in the savings account on each record date.


(2) The resulting stock holding company may not increase the initial sub-account balances. The resulting stock holding company must decrease the initial balance under ยง 239.62(d) as depositors reduce or close their accounts.


(c) *Retention of voting rights based on liquidation sub-accounts.* Eligible account holders or supplemental eligible account holders do not retain any voting rights based on their liquidation sub-accounts.


(d) *Adjusting liquidation sub-accounts.* (1)(i) The resulting stock holding company must reduce the balance of an eligible account holder's or supplemental eligible account holder's sub-account if the deposit balance in the account holder's savings account at the close of business on any annual closing date, which for purposes of this section is the fiscal year end, after the relevant eligibility record dates is less than:


(A) The deposit balance in the account holder's savings account at the close of business on any other annual closing date after the relevant eligibility record date; or


(B) The qualifying deposits in the account holder's savings account on the relevant eligibility record date.


(ii) The reduction must be proportionate to the reduction in the deposit balance.


(2) If the resulting stock holding company reduces the balance of a liquidation sub-account, the resulting stock holding company may not subsequently increase it if the deposit balance increases.


(3) The resulting stock holding company is not required to adjust the liquidation account and sub-account balances at each annual closing date if it maintains sufficient records to make the computations if a liquidation subsequently occurs.


(4) The resulting stock holding company must maintain the liquidation sub-account for each account holder as long as the account holder maintains an account with the same social security number or tax identification number, as applicable.


(5) If there is a complete liquidation, the resulting stock holding company must provide each account holder with a liquidation distribution in the amount of the sub-account balance.


(e) *Liquidation defined.* (1) For purposes of this subpart, a liquidation is a sale of the assets and settlement of the liabilities with the intent to cease operations and close. Upon liquidation, the resulting stock holding company must return the charter to the governmental agency that issued it. The government agency must cancel the charter.


(2) A merger, consolidation, or similar combination or transaction with another depository institution, is not a liquidation. If the resulting stock holding company is involved in such a transaction, the surviving institution must assume the liquidation account.


(f) *Effect of liquidation on net worth.* The liquidation account does not affect the net worth.




