# § 4.23   Varietal (grape type) labeling.

(a) *General.* The names of one or more grape varieties may be used as the type designation of a grape wine only if the wine is also labeled with an appellation of origin as defined in § 4.25.


(b) *One variety.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the name of a single grape variety may be used as the type designation if not less than 75 percent of the wine is derived from grapes of that variety, the entire 75 percent of which was grown in the labeled appellation of origin area.


(c) *Exceptions.* (1) Wine made from any *Vitis labrusca* variety (exclusive of hybrids with *Vitis labrusca* parentage) may be labeled with the variety name if:


(i) Not less than 51 percent of the wine is derived from grapes of the named variety;


(ii) The statement “contains not less than 51 percent (name of variety)” is shown on the brand label, back label, or a separate strip label, (except that this statement need not appear if 75 percent or more of the wine is derived from grapes of the named variety); and


(iii) The entire qualifying percentage of the named variety was grown in the labeled appellation of origin area.


(2) Wine made from any variety of any species found by the appropriate TTB officer upon appropriate application to be too strongly flavored at 75 percent minimum varietal content may be labeled with the varietal name if:


(i) Not less than 51 percent of the wine is derived from grapes of that variety;


(ii) The statement “contains not less than 51 percent (name of variety)” is shown on the brand label, back label, or a separate strip label (except that this statement need not appear if 75 percent or more of the wine is derived from grapes of the named variety); and


(iii) The entire qualifying percentage of the named variety was grown in the labeled appellation of origin area.


(d) *Two or more varieties.* The names of two or more grape varieties may be used as the type designation if:


(1) All of the grapes used to make the wine are of the labeled varieties;


(2) The percentage of the wine derived from each variety is shown on the label (with a tolerance of plus or minus 2 percent); and


(3)(i) If labeled with a multicounty appellation of origin, the percentage of the wine derived from each variety from each county is shown on the label; or


(ii) If labeled with a multistate appellation of origin, the percentage of the wine derived from each variety from each state is shown on the label.


(e) *List of approved variety names.* Effective February 7, 1996, the name of a grape variety may be used as a type designation for an American wine only if that name has been approved by the Administrator. A list of approved grape variety names appears in subpart J of this part.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-370, 61 FR 538, Jan. 8, 1996, as amended by T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5476, Feb. 1, 2011]




