# § 301.6503(c)-1   Suspension of running of period of limitation; location of property outside the United States or removal of property from the United States; taxpayer outside of United States.

(a) *Property located outside, or removed from, the United States prior to November 3, 1966.* The running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 is suspended for the period of time, prior to November 3, 1966, that collection is hindered or delayed because property of the taxpayer is situated or held outside the United States or is removed from the United States. The total suspension of time under this provision shall not in the aggregate exceed 6 years. In any case in which the district director determines that collection is so hindered or delayed, he shall make and retain in the files of his office a written report which shall identify the taxpayer and the tax liability, shall show what steps were taken to collect the tax liability, shall state the grounds for his determination that property of the taxpayer is situated or held outside, or is removed from, the United States, and shall show the date on which it was first determined that collection was so hindered or delayed. The term “property” includes all property or rights to property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, belonging to the taxpayer. The suspension of the running of the period of limitations on collection shall be considered to begin on the date so determined by the district director. A copy of the report shall be mailed to the taxpayer at his last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2. 


(b) *Taxpayer outside United States after November 2, 1966.* The running of the period of limitations on collection after assessment prescribed in section 6502 (relating to collection after assessment) is suspended for the period after November 2, 1966, during which the taxpayer is absent from the United States if such period is a continuous period of absence from the United States extending for 6 months or more. In a case where the running of the period of limitations has been suspended under the first sentence of this paragraph and at the time of the taxpayer's return to the United States the period of limitations would expire before the expiration of 6 months from the date of his return, the period of limitations shall not expire until after 6 months from the date of the taxpayer's return. The taxpayer will be deemed to be absent from the United States for purposes of this section if he is generally and substantially absent from the United States, even though he makes casual temporary visits during the period.



---

[N] [T.D. 7121, 36 FR 10782, June 3, 1971, as amended by T.D. 8939, 66 FR 2821, Jan. 12, 2001]




