# § 868.81   Licensing procedures.

(a) *Application.* An application for a license, the renewal of a license, or the return of a suspended license shall be submitted to the Service on forms furnished by the Service. Each application shall be in English, be typewritten or legibly written in ink, show all information prescribed by the application form, and be signed by the applicant.


(b) *Examinations and reexaminations.* Applicants for a license and individuals who are licensed to perform any or all inspection services shall, at the discretion of the Service, submit to examinations or reexaminations to determine their competency to perform the inspection functions for which they desire to be or are licensed.


(c) *Termination*—(1) *Procedure.* Each license shall terminate according to the termination date shown on the license and as specified by the schedule in this paragraph. The termination date for a license shall be no less than 3 years or more than 4 years after the issuance date for the initial license; thereafter, every 3 years. Upon request of a licensee and for good cause shown, the termination date may be advanced or delayed by the Administrator for a period not to exceed 60 days.


(2) *Exception.* The license of an individual under contract with the Service shall terminate upon termination of the contract.


(d) *Surrender of license.* Each license that is terminated or which is suspended or revoked under § 868.84 shall be promptly surrendered to the Administrator or other official of the Service designated by the Administrator.



---

[N] [53 FR 3722, Feb. 9, 1988. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 16364, Mar. 30, 1995]




