# ยง 2.905   Access to restricted data and national security information for parties; security clearances.

(a) *Access to restricted data and national security information introduced into proceedings.* Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, restricted data or national security information introduced into a proceeding subject to this part will be made available to any interested party having the required security clearance; to counsel for an interested party provided the counsel has the required security clearance; and to such additional persons having the required security clearance as the Commission or the presiding officer determined are needed by such party for adequate preparation or presentation of the case. Where the interest of such party will not be prejudiced, the Commission or presiding officer may postpone action upon an application for access under this paragraph until after a notice of hearing, answers, and replies have been filed.


(b) *Access to Restricted Data or National Security Information not introduced into proceedings.* (1) On application showing that access to Restricted Data or National Security Information may be required for the preparation of a party's case, and except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the Commission or the presiding officer will issue an order granting access to such Restricted Data or National Security Information to the party upon obtaining the required security clearance, to counsel for the party upon their obtaining the required security clearance, and to such other individuals as may be needed by the party for the preparation and presentation of the case upon their obtaining the required clearance.


(2) Where the interest of the party applying for access will not be prejudiced, the Commission or the presiding officer may postpone action on an application pursuant to this paragraph until after a notice of hearing, answers and replies have been filed.


(c) The Commission will consider requests for appropriate security clearances in reasonable numbers pursuant to this section. A reasonable charge will be made by the Commission for costs of security clearance pursuant to this section.


(d) The presiding officer may certify to the Commission for its consideration and determination any questions relating to access to Restricted Data or National Security Information arising under this section. Any party affected by a determination or order of the presiding officer under this section may appeal forthwith to the Commission from the determination or order. The filing by the staff of an appeal from an order of a presiding officer granting access to Restricted Data or National Security Information shall stay the order pending determination of the appeal by the Commission.


(e) *Application granting access to restricted data or national security information.* (1) An application under this section for orders granting access to restricted data or national security information not received from another Government agency will normally be acted upon by the presiding officer, or if a proceeding is not before a presiding officer, by the Commission.


(2) An application under this section for orders granting access to restricted data or national security information where the information has been received by the Commission from another Government agency will be acted upon by the Commission.


(f) To the extent practicable, an application for an order granting access under this section shall describe the subjects of Restricted Data or National Security Information to which access is desired and the level of classification (confidential, secret or other) of the information; the reasons why access to the information is requested; the names of individuals for whom clearances are requested; and the reasons why security clearances are being requested for those individuals.


(g) On the conclusion of a proceeding, the Commission will terminate all orders issued in the proceeding for access to Restricted Data or National Security Information and all security clearances granted pursuant to them; and may issue such orders requiring the disposal of classified matter received pursuant to them or requiring the observance of other procedures to safeguard such classified matter as it deems necessary to protect Restricted Data or National Security Information.


(h) *Refusal to grant access to restricted data or national security information.* (1) The Commission will not grant access to restricted data or national security information unless it determines that the granting of access will not be inimical to the common defense and security.


(2) Access to Restricted Data or National Security Information which has been received by the Commission from another Government agency will not be granted by the Commission if the originating agency determines in writing that access should not be granted. The Commission will consult the originating agency prior to granting access to such data or information received from another Government agency.



---

[N] [41 FR 53329, Dec. 6, 1976, as amended at 88 FR 57877, Aug. 24, 2023]






