# ยง 435.123   Individuals eligible as qualified Medicare beneficiaries.

(a) *Basis.* This section implements sections 1902(a)(10)(E)(i) and 1905(p)(1) of the Act.


(b) *Eligibility.* The agency must provide medical assistance to individuals who meet all of the following:


(1) Are entitled to Medicare Part A based on the eligibility requirements set forth in ยง 406.5(a) or ยง 406.20(b) of this chapter or who are enrolled in Medicare Part B for coverage of immunosuppressive drugs based on eligibility requirements described in ยง 407.55 of this chapter.


(2) Have an income, subject to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, that does not exceed 100 percent of the Federal poverty level.


(i) During a transition month (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section), any income attributable to a cost of living adjustment in Social Security retirement, survivors, or disability benefits does not count in determining an individual's income.


(ii) A transition month is any month of the year beginning when the cost of living adjustment takes effect, through the month following the month of publication of the revised official poverty level.


(3) Have resources, determined using financial methodologies no more restrictive than SSI, that do not exceed three times the maximum resource level allowed under the SSI program, annually adjusted by increases in the Consumer Price Index for inflation as defined in section 1905(p)(1)(C) of the Act.


(c) *Scope.* Medical assistance included in paragraph (b) of this section includes all of the following:


(1) For individuals entitled to Medicare Part A as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, coverage for Parts A and B premiums and cost sharing, including deductibles and coinsurance, and copays.


(2) For individuals enrolled in Medicare Part B for coverage of immunosuppressive drugs as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, only coverage of premiums and cost sharing related to enrollment in Medicare Part B for coverage of immunosuppressive drugs.



---

[N] [87 FR 66511, Nov. 3, 2022]






