# § 66.106   Electronic or digital link disclosure.

If a required bioengineered food disclosure is made through an electronic or digital link printed on the label, the disclosure must comply with the requirements described in this section.


(a) *Accompanying statement.* (1) An electronic or digital disclosure must be accompanied by, and be placed directly above or below, this statement: “Scan here for more food information” or equivalent language that only reflects technological changes (e.g., “Scan anywhere on package for more food information” or “Scan icon for more food information”).


(2) The electronic or digital disclosure must also be accompanied by a telephone number that will provide the bioengineered food disclosure to the consumer, regardless of the time of day. The telephone number instructions must be in close proximity to the digital link and the accompanying statement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must indicate that calling the telephone number will provide more food information, and must be accompanied by the statement “Call [1-000-000-0000] for more food information.”


(b) *Product information page.* When the electronic or digital link is accessed, the link must go directly to the product information page for display on the electronic or digital device. The product information page must comply with the requirements described in this paragraph (b).


(1) The product information page must be the first screen to appear on an electronic or digital device after the link is accessed as directed.


(2) The product information page must include a bioengineered food disclosure that is consistent with § 66.102 or § 66.104.


(3) The product information page must exclude marketing and promotional information.


(4) The electronic or digital link disclosure may not collect, analyze, or sell any personally identifiable information about consumers or the devices of consumers; however, if this information must be collected to carry out the purposes of this part, the information must be deleted immediately and not used for any other purpose.




