# ยง 502.20   Debarment and revocation.

(a) The WHD shall recommend to the Administrator, OFLC the debarment of any employer and any successor in interest to that employer (or the employer's attorney or agent if they are a responsible party) if the WHD finds that the employer substantially violated a material term or condition of its temporary labor certification for the employment of domestic or nonimmigrant workers.


(b) For purposes of this section, a substantial violation includes:


(1) A pattern or practice of acts of commission or omission on the part of the employer or the employer's agent which:


(i) Are significantly injurious to the wages, benefits required to be offered under the H-2A program, or working conditions of a significant number of the employer's U.S. or H-2A workers;


(ii) Reflect a significant failure to offer employment to all qualified domestic workers who applied for the job opportunity for which certification was being sought, except for lawful job-related reasons;


(iii) Reflect a willful failure to comply with the employer's obligations to recruit U.S. workers as set forth in this subpart; or


(iv) Reflect the employment of an H-2A worker outside the area of intended employment, or in an activity/activities, not listed in the job order (other than an activity minor and incidental to the activity/activities listed in the job order), or after the period of employment specified in the job order and any approved extension;


(2) A significant failure to cooperate with a DOL investigation or with a DOL official performing an investigation, inspection, or law enforcement function under sec. 218 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 (ESA enforcement of contractual obligations); or


(3) A significant failure to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by the ESA for violation(s) of obligations found by that agency (if applicable), or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court order secured by the Secretary under sec. 218 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 (ESA enforcement of contractual obligations); or


(4) A single heinous act showing such flagrant disregard for the law that future compliance with program requirements cannot reasonably be expected.


(c) Procedures for Debarment Recommendation. The WHD will send to the employer a *Notice of Recommended Debarment.* The *Notice of Recommended Debarment* must be in writing, must state the reason for the debarment recommendation, including a detailed explanation of the grounds for and the duration of the recommended debarment. The debarment recommendation will be forwarded to the Administrator, OFLC. The *Notice of Recommended Debarment* shall be issued no later than 2 years after the occurrence of the violation.


(d) The WHD may recommend to the Administrator, OFLC the revocation of a temporary agricultural labor certification if the WHD finds that the employer:


(1) Willfully violated a material term or condition of the approved temporary agricultural labor certification, work contract, or this part, unless otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section.


(2) Failed, after notification, to cure a substantial violation of the applicable housing standards set out in 20 CFR 655.104(d);


(3) Failed to cooperate with a DOL investigation or with a DOL official performing an investigation, inspection, or law enforcement function under sec. 218 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 (ESA enforcement of contractual obligations); or


(4) Failed to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by the ESA for violation(s) of obligations found by that agency (if applicable), or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court order Secured by the Secretary under sec. 218 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 (ESA enforcement of contractual obligations).


(e) In considering a recommendation made by the WHD to debar an employer or to revoke a temporary agricultural labor certification, the Administrator, OFLC shall treat final agency determinations that the employer has committed a violation as res judicata and shall not reconsider those determinations. 




