# § 48.4081-3   Taxable fuel; taxable events other than removal at the terminal rack.

(a) *Overview.* Although tax is imposed when taxable fuel is removed from the terminal at the rack, tax also is imposed in certain other situations described in this section. 


(b) *Tax on removal from a refinery*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* Tax is imposed on the following removals from a refinery:


(i) A removal of taxable fuel by bulk transfer if the refiner or the owner of the taxable fuel immediately before the removal is not a taxable fuel registrant.


(ii) A removal of taxable fuel at the rack.


(iii) After September 30, 1995, a removal of a batch of gasohol from an approved refinery by bulk transfer if the refiner treats itself with respect to the removal as a person that is not registered under section 4101. See § 48.4101-1(a). For the rule providing that no deposit is required in the case of the tax imposed under this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), see § 40.6302(c)-1(f)(4) of this chapter. For the rule allowing inspections of facilities where gasohol is produced, see section 4083.


(2) *Exception for certain refineries.* The tax imposed under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply to a removal of taxable fuel if—


(i) The taxable fuel is removed from an approved refinery that is not served by pipeline (other than a pipeline for the receipt of crude oil) or vessel;


(ii) The taxable fuel is received at a facility that is operated by a taxable fuel registrant and is located within the bulk transfer/terminal system;


(iii) The removal from the refinery is by—


(A) Rail car; or


(B) In the case of diesel fuel, a trailer or semi-trailer that is used exclusively for the transport service described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section;


(iv) In the case of taxable fuel removed by rail car, the facility at which the fuel is received is operated by the same person that operates the refinery from which the fuel was removed; and


(v) In the case of diesel fuel removed by a trailer or semi-trailer, the facility at which the fuel is received is less than 20 miles from the refinery from which the diesel fuel was removed.


(3) *Liability for tax.* The refiner is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Tax on entry into the United States*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* Tax is imposed on the entry of taxable fuel into the United States if—


(i) The entry is by bulk transfer and the enterer is not a taxable fuel registrant; or


(ii) The entry is not by bulk transfer.


(2) *Liability for tax*—(i) *In general.* The enterer is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(ii) *Joint and several liability of the importer of record.* The importer of record with respect to the taxable fuel is jointly and severally liable with the enterer for the tax imposed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section if—


(A) The importer of record is not the enterer of the taxable fuel; and


(B) The enterer is not a taxable fuel registrant.


(iii) *Conditions for avoidance of liability.* The importer of record is not liable for the tax under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section if, at the time of the entry, the importer of record—


(A) Has an unexpired notification certificate (as described in § 48.4081-5) from the enterer; and


(B) Has no reason to believe that any information in the notification certificate is false.


(iv) *Customs bond.* The Customs bond posted with respect to the importation of the fuel will not be charged for the tax imposed on the entry of the fuel if the enterer is a taxable fuel registrant. A Customs bond will not be charged for the tax imposed on the entry of the fuel covered by the bond, if at the time of entry, the surety—


(A) Has an unexpired notification certificate (as described in § 48.4081-5) from the enterer; and


(B) Has no reason to believe that any information in the notification certificate is false.


(d) *Tax on bulk transfers from a terminal by an unregistered position holder*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* Tax is imposed on the removal by bulk transfer of taxable fuel from a terminal if the position holder with respect to the taxable fuel is not a taxable fuel registrant.


(2) *Liability for tax*—(i) *In general.* The position holder with respect to the taxable fuel is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(ii) *Joint and several liability of terminal operator.* The terminal operator is jointly and severally liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if—


(A) The position holder with respect to the taxable fuel is a person other than the terminal operator; and


(B) The terminal operator has not met the conditions of paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.


(iii) *Conditions for avoidance of liability.* A terminal operator is not liable for tax under this paragraph (d)(2) if, at the time of the bulk transfer, the terminal operator—


(A) Is a taxable fuel registrant;


(B) Has an unexpired notification certificate (described in § 48.4081-5) from the position holder; and


(C) Has no reason to believe that any information in the notification certificate is false.


(e) *Tax on bulk transfers not received at an approved terminal or refinery*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* Tax on taxable fuel is imposed if—


(i) Taxable fuel is removed by bulk transfer from a refinery or terminal, or entered by bulk transfer into the United States;


(ii) No tax was imposed on such removal or entry under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section; and


(iii) Upon removal from the pipeline or vessel, the taxable fuel is not received at an approved terminal or refinery (or at another pipeline or vessel).


(2) *Liability for tax*—(i) *In general.* The owner of the taxable fuel when it is removed from the pipeline or vessel is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the owner has not met the conditions of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Conditions for avoidance of liability.* An owner of taxable fuel is not liable for tax under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section if, at the time the taxable fuel is removed from the pipeline or vessel, the owner of the taxable fuel—


(A) Is a taxable fuel registrant;


(B) Has an unexpired notification certificate (described in § 48.4081-5) from the operator of the terminal or refinery where the taxable fuel is received; and


(C) Has no reason to believe that any information in the notification certificate is false.


(iii) *Liability of the operator of the facility where the taxable fuel is received.* The operator of the facility where the taxable fuel is received is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the owner of the taxable fuel has met the conditions of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section and is jointly and severally liable for the tax if the owner has not met such conditions.


(f) *Tax on sales within the bulk transfer/terminal system*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* Tax is imposed on the sale of taxable fuel located within the bulk transfer/terminal system if the sale is to a person that is not a taxable fuel registrant and tax has not been imposed on such taxable fuel under § 48.4081-2, or paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section.


(2) *Exception for certain sales of taxable fuel for export.* The tax imposed under paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply to a sale of taxable fuel if—


(i) The buyer's principal place of business is not within the United States;


(ii) The sale of the fuel occurs as the fuel is delivered into a transport vessel;


(iii) The vessel has a capacity of at least 20,000 barrels of fuel;


(iv) The seller is a taxable fuel registrant and the exporter of record of the fuel; and


(v) The fuel was exported in due course.


(3) *Liability for tax*—(i) *In general.* The seller of the taxable fuel is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (f)(1) of this section if the seller has not met the conditions of paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Conditions for avoidance of liability.* A seller is not liable for tax under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section if, at the time of the sale, the seller—


(A) Is a taxable fuel registrant;


(B) Has an unexpired notification certificate (described in § 48.4081-5) from the buyer; and


(C) Has no reason to believe that any information in the certificate is false.


(iii) *Liability of the buyer.* The buyer of the taxable fuel is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (f)(1) of this section if the seller of the taxable fuel has met the conditions of paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section and is jointly and severally liable for the tax if the seller has not met such conditions.


(4) *Example.* The following example illustrates this paragraph (f) and the definition of the term *sale* in § 48.4081-1:


(g) *Tax on removal or sale of blended taxable fuel by the blender*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* A tax is imposed on the removal or sale of blended taxable fuel by the blender thereof. Tax is computed on the difference between the total number of gallons of blended taxable fuel removed or sold and the number of gallons of previously taxed taxable fuel used to produce the blended taxable fuel. For this purpose, the alcohol in gasohol is treated as previously taxed taxable fuel.


(2) *Liability for tax*—(i) *Liability of the blender.* The blender is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (g)(1) of this section. 


(ii) *Liability of seller of untaxed liquid.* On and after April 2, 2003, a person that sells any liquid that is used to produce blended taxable fuel is jointly and severally liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (g)(1) of this section on the removal or sale of that blended taxable fuel if the liquid—


(A) Is described in § 48.4081-1(c)(1)(i)(B) (relating to liquids on which tax has not been imposed under section 4081); and 


(B) Is sold by that person as gasoline, diesel fuel, or kerosene that has been taxed under section 4081. 


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (g) and the definitions of *blended taxable fuel* and *diesel fuel* in § 48.4081-1(c): 


(h) *Rate of tax.* For the rate of tax generally imposed under this section, see section 4081(a). For the rate of tax on gasohol and on gasoline removed or entered for gasohol production, see § 48.4081-6.


(i) *Exemptions.* For exemptions from the taxes imposed under this section, see §§ 48.4081-4 (relating to gasoline blendstocks), 48.4082-1 (relating to dyed diesel fuel and dyed kerosene), 48.4082-5 (relating to diesel fuel and kerosene used in Alaska), 48.4082-6 (relating to aviation-grade kerosene), and 48.4082-7 (relating to kerosene used for a feedstock purpose).


(j) *Effective/applicability date:* This section is applicable January 1, 1994, except that paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section are applicable to entries of taxable fuel after September 27, 2004.



---

[N] [T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10455, Mar. 14, 1996, as amended by T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17156, Mar. 31, 2000; T.D. 9051, 68 FR 15941, Apr. 2, 2003; T.D. 9145, 69 FR 45588, July 30, 2004; T.D. 9346, 72 FR 41223, July 27, 2007]




