# § 63.1022   Equipment identification.

(a) *General equipment identification.* Equipment subject to this subpart shall be identified. Identification of the equipment does not require physical tagging of the equipment. For example, the equipment may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, by designation of process unit or affected facility boundaries by some form of weatherproof identification, or by other appropriate methods.


(b) *Additional equipment identification.* In addition to the general identification required by paragraph (a) of this section, equipment subject to any of the provisions in §§ 63.1023 through 63.1034 shall be specifically identified as required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, as applicable. This paragraph does not apply to an owner or operator of a batch product process who elects to pressure test the batch product process equipment train pursuant to § 63.1036.


(1) *Connectors.* Except for inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connectors meeting the provision of § 63.1027(e)(2) and instrumentation systems identified pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, identify the connectors subject to the requirements of this subpart. Connectors need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this subpart are identified as a group, and the number of connectors subject is indicated. With respect to connectors, the identification shall be complete no later than the completion of the initial survey required by paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system and control device.* Identify the equipment that the owner or operator elects to route to a process or fuel gas system or equip with a closed vent system and control device, under the provisions of § 63.1026(e)(3) (pumps in light liquid service), § 63.1028(e)(3) (agitators), § 63.1030(d) (pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service), § 63.1031(e) (compressors), or § 63.1037(a) (alternative means of emission limitation for enclosed-vented process units).


(3) *Pressure relief devices.* Identify the pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, under the provisions of § 63.1030(e).


(4) *Instrumentation systems.* Identify instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of § 63.1029 of this subpart. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.


(5) *Equipment in service less than 300 hours per calendar year.* The identity, either by list, location (area or group), or other method, of equipment in regulated material service less than 300 hours per calendar year within a process unit or affected facilities subject to the provisions of this subpart shall be recorded.


(c) *Special equipment designations: Equipment that is unsafe or difficult-to-monitor*—(1) *Designation and criteria for unsafe-to-monitor.* Valves meeting the provisions of § 63.1025(e)(1), pumps meeting the provisions of § 63.1026(e)(6), connectors meeting the provisions of § 63.1027(e)(1), and agitators meeting the provisions of § 63.1028(e)(7) may be designated unsafe-to-monitor if the owner or operator determines that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the monitoring requirements of this subpart. Examples of unsafe-to-monitor equipment include, but is not limited to, equipment under extreme pressure or heat.


(2) *Designation and criteria for difficult-to-monitor.* Valves meeting the provisions of § 63.1025(e)(2) may be designated difficult-to-monitor if the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(i) apply. Agitators meeting the provisions of § 63.1028(e)(5) may be designated difficult-to-monitor if the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) apply.


(i) *Valves.* (A) The owner or operator of the valve determines that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in regulated material service; and


(B) The process unit or affected facility within which the valve is located is an existing source, or the owner or operator designates less than 3 percent of the total number of valves in a new source as difficult-to-monitor.


(ii) *Agitators.* The owner or operator determines that the agitator cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in regulated material service.


(3) *Identification of unsafe or difficult-to-monitor equipment.* The owner or operator shall record the identity of equipment designated as unsafe-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the planned schedule for monitoring this equipment. The owner or operator shall record the identity of equipment designated as difficult-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the planned schedule for monitoring this equipment, and an explanation why the equipment is unsafe or difficult-to-monitor. This record must be kept at the plant and be available for review by an inspector.


(4) *Written plan requirements.* (i) The owner or operator of equipment designated as unsafe-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in § 63.1024 if a leak is detected.


(ii) The owner or operator of equipment designated as difficult-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment at least once per calendar year and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in § 63.1024 if a leak is detected.


(d) *Special equipment designations: Equipment that is unsafe-to-repair*—(1) *Designation and criteria.* Connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.1024(e) may be designated unsafe-to-repair if the owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the repair requirements of this subpart, and if the connector will be repaired before the end of the next process unit or affected facility shutdown as specified in § 63.1024(e)(2).


(2) *Identification of equipment.* The identity of connectors designated as unsafe-to-repair and an explanation why the connector is unsafe-to-repair shall be recorded.


(e) *Special equipment designations: Compressors operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background.* Identify the compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.1031(f).


(f) *Special equipment designations: Equipment in heavy liquid service.* The owner or operator of equipment in heavy liquid service shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section, as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(1) Retain information, data, and analyses used to determine that a piece of equipment is in heavy liquid service.


(2) When requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that the piece of equipment or process is in heavy liquid service.


(3) A determination or demonstration that a piece of equipment or process is in heavy liquid service shall include an analysis or demonstration that the process fluids do not meet the definition of “in light liquid service.” Examples of information that could document this include, but are not limited to, records of chemicals purchased for the process, analyses of process stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge.




