# § 136.110   Facilities construction.

In addition to other requirements of this subpart: 


(a) An applicant for a construction grant to build, renovate, modernize, or remodel a hospital, clinic, health station or quarters for housing personnel associated with such facilities, must in its application: 


(1) Provide its assessment of the environmental impact of the project as called for by section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(c)).


(2) Furnish its evaluation of the project site in accordance with the terms and conditions of E.O. 11296, 31 FR 10663 (August 10, 1966) relating to the evaluation of flood hazards in locating federally owned or financed facilities.


(b) The following requirements are applicable to each construction grant to build, renovate, modernize, or remodel a hospital, clinic, health station or quarters for housing personnel associated with such facilities.


(1) Competitive bids. The approval of the Secretary shall be obtained before the project is advertised or placed on the market for bidding. The approval shall include a determination by the Secretary that the final plan and specifications conform to the minimum standards of construction and equipment specified in the grant award or in HHS documents specified in the grant award.


(2) There will be no preference given to local contractors or suppliers over non-local contractors or suppliers, except as otherwise provided in these regulations.


(3) Construction contracts and subcontracts under this program are subject to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a *et seq.*). For requirements that grantees must observe for enforcing compliance by contractors and subcontractors, see the section on contract provisions in the procurement standards for HHS grantees made applicable by 45 CFR 75.326 through 75.340. 


(4) Minimum standards of construction and equipment. The plans and specifications for the project will conform to the minimum standards of construction and equipment specified in the grant award or in HHS documents specified in the grant award.


(5) The following provision must be included in all construction contracts let by the grantee: “The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services shall have access at all reasonable times to work wherever it is in preparation or progress, and the contractor shall provide proper facilities for such access and inspection.”



---

[N] [40 FR 53143, Nov. 14, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 1854, Jan. 14, 1985; 81 FR 3010, Jan. 20, 2016] 




