# § 10.405   Qualification as Qualified Assessor and Designated Examiner.

(a) To become a Qualified Assessor (QA), an applicant must have documentary evidence to establish—


(1) Experience, training, or instruction in assessment techniques;


(2) Qualifications in the task for which the assessment is being conducted; and


(3) Possession of the level of endorsement, or other professional credential, which provides proof that they have attained a level of experience and qualification equal or superior to the relevant level of knowledge, skills, and abilities to be assessed.


(b) To become a DE for towing officer assessment records (TOARs), an applicant must have documentary evidence to establish—


(1) Experience, training, or instruction in assessment techniques on towing vessels;


(2) Qualifications on towing vessels in the task for which the assessment is being conducted; and


(3) Possession of the level of endorsement on towing vessels, or other professional credential, which provides proof that they have attained a level of qualification equal or superior to the relevant level of knowledge, skills, and abilities described in the training objectives.


(c) Documentary evidence may be in the form of performance evaluations, which include an evaluation of effectiveness in on-the-job organization and delivery of training, or a certificate of successful completion from an “assessor training” course.


(d) In order to renew their qualifications, each QA and DE must have either experience, training, or evidence of instruction in effective assessment within the past 5 years.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77903, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93068, Nov. 25, 2024; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102332, 102334, Dec. 17, 2024]




