# § 512.424   Achievement domain.

(a) *General.* (1) After each PY, CMS calculates the number of kidney transplants that each IOTA participant performed for the respective PY, in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) CMS compares the number of kidney transplants that an IOTA participant performed during the PY to the IOTA participant's transplant target to determine the IOTA participant's score for the achievement domain.


(b) *Transplant target methodology.* CMS determines the IOTA participant's transplant target for each PY as follows:


(1) *Analysis of baseline years.* CMS analyzes the baseline years for the relevant PY and identifies:


(i) The mean number of deceased donor kidney transplants furnished by the IOTA participant to patients 18 years of age or older across the baseline years, as defined at § 512.402; and


(ii) The mean number of living donor kidney transplants furnished by the IOTA participant to patients 18 years of age or older across the baseline years, as defined at § 512.402.


(2) *Mean of kidney transplants.* CMS sums the numbers in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(3) *National growth rate calculation.* CMS calculates the national growth rate, as defined at § 512.402, using the baseline years for the relevant PY as follows:


(i) Subtracts the total number of kidney transplants furnished to patients 18 years of age or older during the second baseline year from the total number of kidney transplants furnished to patients 18 years of age or older during the third baseline year.


(ii) Divides the amount resulting from the calculation in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section by the total number of kidney transplants furnished to patients 18 years of age or older during the third baseline year. The resulting amount is the national growth rate for the relevant PY.


(4) *Calculation of transplant target.* If the national growth rate calculated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is—


(i) Positive, CMS multiples that national growth rate by the sum calculated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The resulting amount is an IOTA participant's transplant target for the relevant PY; or


(ii) Negative, CMS does not multiply the national growth rate by the sum calculated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The IOTA participant's transplant target for the relevant PY is the sum calculated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(c) *Notification of transplant target.* CMS notifies the IOTA participant of the transplant target by the first day of the start of each PY in a form and manner determined by CMS.


(d) *Calculation of kidney transplants performed during the PY.* (1)(i) After each PY, CMS counts the number of kidney transplants performed by the IOTA participant on patients who were 18 years of age or older at the time of transplant, during the PY.


(ii) CMS identifies kidney transplants performed by the IOTA participant using OPTN data, regardless of payer, and Medicare claims data.


(2) CMS counts each kidney transplant described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section as one transplant.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Achievement domain scoring.* For each PY, CMS awards the IOTA participant zero to 60 points for its performance in the achievement domain.


(1) CMS compares the total number of kidney transplants identified under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to the IOTA participant's transplant target, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) CMS uses the following scoring methodology to determine an IOTA participant's score on the achievement domain.


