# § 19.415   Marks on containers of Puerto Rican and Virgin Islands spirits.

(a) *Packages from Puerto Rico.* When a proprietor receives packages of Puerto Rican spirits on bonded premises under the provisions of this subpart, the markings required under § 26.40 of this chapter will be acceptable in place of the markings required under § 19.414. However, the proprietor still must mark each package to show the date of fill as required under § 19.410, and must include on each package the words “Puerto Rican” or the abbreviation “P.R.”.


(b) *Packages from the Virgin Islands.* When a proprietor receives packages of Virgin Islands spirits on bonded premises under the provisions of this subpart, the markings required under § 26.206 of this chapter will be acceptable in place of the markings required under § 19.414. However, the proprietor still must mark each package to show the date of fill as required under § 19.410, and must include on each package the words “Virgin Islands” or the abbreviation “V.I.”.


(c) *Portable bulk containers.* Portable bulk containers of Puerto Rican or Virgin Islands spirits that are filled on bonded premises must be marked in accordance with § 19.484. In addition, those containers must be marked with the serial number of any approved formula under which they were produced and with the words “Puerto Rican” or the abbreviation “P.R.” or “Virgin Islands” or the “V.I.”, as applicable.


(d) *Cases of bottled alcohol.* Alcohol from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands that is bottled and cased on bonded premises must be marked as required by § 19.496. In addition, the words “Puerto Rican” or “Virgin Islands” or the abbreviation “P.R.” or “V.I.”, respectively, must precede the word “alcohol” designation on the cases.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1123, Jan. 4, 2017]




