# § 25.143   Licensing provisions for the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service and 2 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service.

(a) Authority to launch and operate a constellation of NGSO satellites will be granted in a single blanket license for operation of a specified number of space stations in specified orbital planes. An individual license will be issued for each GSO satellite, whether it is to be operated in a GSO-only system or in a GSO/NGSO hybrid system.


(b) *Qualification Requirements*—(1) *General Requirements.* Each application for a space station system authorization in the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service or 2 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service must include the information specified in § 25.114. Applications for non-U.S.-licensed systems must comply with the provisions of § 25.137.


(2) *Technical qualifications.* In addition to providing the information specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each applicant and petitioner must demonstrate the following:


(i) That a proposed system in the 1.6/2.4 GHz MSS frequency bands employs a non-geostationary constellation or constellations of satellites; 


(ii) That a system proposed to operate using non-geostationary satellites be capable of providing Mobile-Satellite Service to all locations as far north as 70° North latitude and as far south as 55° South latitude for at least 75% of every 24-hour period, i.e., that at least one satellite will be visible above the horizon at an elevation angle of at least 5° for at least 18 hours each day within the described geographic area;


(iii) That a system proposed to operate using non-geostationary satellites be capable of providing Mobile-Satellite Service on a continuous basis throughout the fifty states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, i.e., that at least one satellite will be visible above the horizon at an elevation angle of at least 5° at all times within the described geographic areas; and


(iv) That a system only using geostationary orbit satellites, at a minimum, be capable of providing Mobile-Satellite Service on a continuous basis throughout the 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, if technically feasible. 


(v) That operations will not cause unacceptable interference to other authorized users of the spectrum. In particular, each application in the 1.6/2.4 GHz frequency bands shall demonstrate that the space station(s) comply with the requirements specified in § 25.213.


(c) *Safety and distress communications.* (1) Stations operating in the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service and 2 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service that are voluntarily installed on a U.S. ship or are used to comply with any statute or regulatory equipment carriage requirements may also be subject to the requirements of sections 321(b) and 359 of the Communications Act of 1934. Licensees are advised that these provisions give priority to radio communications or signals relating to ships in distress and prohibits a charge for the transmission of maritime distress calls and related traffic. 


(2) Licensees offering distress and safety services should coordinate with the appropriate search and rescue organizations responsible for the licensees service area.



---

[N] [59 FR 53328, Oct. 21, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 9945, Mar. 12, 1996; 62 FR 5930, Feb. 10, 1997; 65 FR 59143, Oct. 4, 2000; 68 FR 33649, June 5, 2003; 68 FR 47858, Aug. 12, 2003; 68 FR 51504, Aug. 27, 2003; 70 FR 59277, Oct. 12, 2005; 78 FR 8267, Feb. 5, 2013; 78 FR 8422, Feb. 6, 2013; 79 FR 8320, Feb. 12, 2014; 81 FR 55333, Aug. 18, 2016; 82 FR 59985, Dec. 18, 2017]




