# § 596.7   Specifications for pedestrian test devices.

(a) *Explanation of usage.* The words “recommended,” “should,” “can be,” or “should be” appearing in sections of ISO 19206-2:2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5), referenced in this section, are read as setting forth specifications that are used.


(b) *Explanation of usage.* The words “may be,” or “either” used in connection with a set of items appearing in sections of ISO 19206-2:2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5), referenced in this section, are read as setting forth the totality of items, any one of which may be selected by NHTSA for testing.


(c) *Specifications for the pedestrian test devices*—(1) *General description.* The adult pedestrian test mannequin (APTM) provides a sensor representation of a 50th percentile adult male and consist of a head, torso, two arms and hands, and two legs and feet. The child pedestrian test mannequin (CPTM) provides a sensor representation of a 6- to 7-year-old child and consists of a head, torso, two arms and hands, and two legs and feet. The arms of the APTM and CPTM are posable, but do not move during testing. The legs of the APTM and CPTM articulate and are synchronized to the forward motion of the mannequin.


(2) *Dimensions and posture.* The APTM has basic body dimensions and proportions specified in Annex A, table A.1 in ISO 19206-2:2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5). The CPTM has basic body dimensions and proportions specified in Annex A, table A.1 in ISO 19206-2:2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(3) *Visual properties*—(i) *Head.* The head has a visible hairline silhouette by printed graphic. The hair is black as defined in Annex B table B.2 of ISO 19206-4:2020, as tested in accordance with ISO 3668:2017 (both incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(ii) *Face.* The head does not have any facial features (*i.e.,* eyes, nose, mouth, and ears).


(iii) *Skin.* The face, neck and hands have a skin colored as defined Annex B, table B.2 of ISO 19206-4:2020 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(iv) *Torso and arms.* The torso and arms are black as defined in Annex B table B.2 of ISO 19206-4:2020, as tested in accordance with ISO 3668:2017 (both incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(v) *Legs.* The legs are blue as defined in Annex B table B.2 of ISO 19206-4:2020, as tested in accordance with ISO 3668:2017 (both incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(vi) *Feet.* The feet are black as defined in Annex B table B.2 of ISO 19206-4:2020, as tested in accordance with ISO 3668:2017 (both incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(4) *Infrared properties.* The surface of the entire APTM or CPTM are within the reflectivity ranges specified in Annex B section B.2.2 of ISO 19206-2:2018, as illustrated in Annex B, figure B.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(5) *Radar properties.* The radar reflectivity characteristics of the pedestrian test device approximates that of a pedestrian of the same size when approached from the side or from behind.


(6) *Radar cross section measurements.* The radar cross section measurements of the APTM and the CPTM is within the upper and lower boundaries shown in Annex B, section B.3, figure B.6 of ISO 19206-2:2018 when tested in accordance with the measure procedure in Annex C, section C.3, Scenario 2 Fixed Angle Scans of ISO 19206-3:2021 with a measurement range of 4m to 40m (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(7) *Posture.* The pedestrian test device has arms that are posable and remain posed during testing. The pedestrian test device is equipped with moving legs consistent with standard gait phases specified in Section 5.6 of ISO 19206-2:2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(8) *Articulation properties.* The legs of the pedestrian test device are in accordance with, and as described in, Annex D, section D.2 and illustrated in Figures D.1, D.2, and D.3 of ISO 19206-2:2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.6).






