# § 416.1111   How we count earned income.

(a) *Wages.* We count wages at the earliest of the following points: when you receive them or when they are credited to your account or set aside for your use. We determine wages for each month. We count wages for services performed as a member of a uniformed service (as defined in § 404.1330 of this chapter) as received in the month in which they are earned.


(b) *Net earnings from self-employment.* We count net earnings from self-employment on a taxable year basis. However, we divide the total of these earnings equally among the months in the taxable year to get your earnings for each month. For example, if your net earnings for a taxable year are $2,400, we consider that you received $200 in each month. If you have net losses from self-employment, we divide them over the taxable year in the same way, and we deduct them only from your other earned income.


(c) *Payments for services in a sheltered workshop or activities center.* We count payments you receive for services performed in a sheltered workshop or work activities center when you receive them or when they are set aside for your use. We determine the amount of the payments for each calendar quarter.


(d) *In-kind earned income.* We use the current market value of in-kind earned income for SSI purposes. (See § 416.1101 for a definition of current market value.) If you receive an item that is not fully paid for and are responsible for the unpaid balance, only the paid-up value is income to you. (See the example in § 416.1123(c)).


(e) *Royalties and honoraria.* We count payments of royalties to you in connection with any publication of your work, and honoraria, to the extent received for services rendered, at the earliest of the following points: when you receive them, when they are credited to your account, or when they are set aside for your use. (See § 416.1111(b) if you receive royalties as part of your trade or business.)



---

[N] [45 FR 65547, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 23179, May 24, 1983; 48 FR 30357, July 1, 1983; 50 FR 48574, Nov. 26, 1985; 58 FR 63889, Dec. 3, 1993; 59 FR 43471, Aug. 24, 1994; 71 FR 45378, Aug. 9, 2006]




