# ยง 381.195   Definitions; requirements for importation into the United States.

(a) When used in this part, the following terms are defined to mean:


(1) *Import (imported).* To bring within the territorial limits of the United States whether that arrival is accomplished by land, air, or water.


(2) *Offer(ed) for entry.* The point at which the importer presents the imported product for reinspection.


(3) *Entry (entered).* The point at which imported product offered for entry receives reinspection and is marked with the official mark of inspection, as required by ยง 381.204.


(b) No slaughtered poultry, or parts or products thereof, shall be imported into the United States unless they are healthful, wholesome, fit for human food, not adulterated, and contain no dye, chemical, preservative, or ingredient which renders them unhealthful, unwholesome, adulterated, or unfit for human food and they also comply with the regulations prescribed in this subpart to assure that they comply with the standards provided for in the Act: *Provided,* That the provisions of this subpart apply to such articles only if they are capable of use as human food. 


(c) Except as provided in ยง 381.207, slaughtered poultry and other poultry products may be imported only if they were processed solely in countries found eligible to export poultry products to the United States under ยง 381.196(b). Slaughtered poultry may be imported only if it qualifies as ready-to-cook poultry.



---

[N] [37 FR 9706, May 16, 1972, as amended at 40 FR 42338, Sept. 12, 1975; 54 FR 41049, Oct. 5, 1989; 79 FR 56233, Sept. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65268, Nov. 27, 2019] 




