# ยง 140.505   General health and safety requirements.

(a) The owner or managing operator must implement procedures for reporting unsafe conditions and must have records of the activities conducted under this section. The owner or managing operator must maintain records of health and safety incidents that occur on board the vessel, including any medical records associated with the incidents. Upon request, the owner or managing operator must provide crewmembers with incident reports and the crewmember's own associated medical records.


(b) All vessel equipment must be used in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended practice and in a manner that minimizes risk of injury or death. This includes machinery, deck machinery, towing gear, ladders, embarkation devices, cranes, portable tools, and safety equipment.


(c) All machinery and equipment that is not in proper working order (including missing or malfunctioning guards or safety devices) must be removed; made safe through marking, tagging, or covering; or otherwise made unusable.


(d) *Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).* (1) Appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) must be made available and on hand for all personnel engaged in an activity that requires the use of PPE.


(2) PPE must be suitable for the vessel's intended service; meet the standards of 29 CFR part 1910, subpart I; and be used, cleaned, maintained, and repaired in accordance with manufacturer's requirements.


(3) All individuals must wear PPE appropriate to the activity being performed;


(4) All personnel engaged in an activity must be trained in the proper use, limitations, and care of the PPE specified by this subpart;


(e) The vessel, including crew's quarters and the galley, must be kept in a sanitary condition.




