# § 721.925   Substituted aromatic (generic).

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a substituted aromatic (PMN P-84-954) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on the location and availability of SDSs does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c). The provisions of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a label and SDS do not apply when a label and SDS are not required under § 721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (level set at 0.25 ppm). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [55 FR 26098, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




