# § 444.12   Monitoring requirements.

(a) Both direct and indirect discharges must monitor to establish compliance with their limitations and standards. Thus, all the permits of all direct dischargers must include requirements to monitor, according to EPA-approved test procedures, each pollutant limited in the permit, the volume of effluent discharged from each outfall, and other appropriate measurements subject to notification requirements. See 40 CFR 122.44(i). EPA's pretreatment regulations similarly require indirect dischargers to monitor to demonstrate compliance with pretreatment standards. See 40 CFR 403.12(g). 


(b) Incorporation by reference: 


(1) Compliance with the monitoring requirements may be accomplished using approved test procedures listed in the table to this paragraph. Most of these test procedures have previously been incorporated by reference at 40 CFR 136.3(a), Table IB. The test procedures for the regulated pollutants (arsenic, cadmium, chromium (total), copper, pH, lead, mercury, TSS, silver, titanium, and zinc) listed in the table to this paragraph are also incorporated by reference into this regulation. The full texts of the test procedures listed in this paragraph are available from the sources indicated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In addition to those test procedures incorporated by reference at 40 CFR 136.3(a), Table IB, you may also use EPA Method 200.8, “Determination of Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry,” from “Methods for Determination of Metals in Environmental Samples—Supplement I,” EPA-600/R-94-111, May 1994, and ASTM Method D 5673-96, “Standard Test Method for Elements in Water by Inductively Coupled Plasma—Mass Spectrometry,” from 1999 Annual Book of ASTM Standards, for determination of arsenic, cadmium, chromium (total), copper, lead, silver, and zinc. The full texts of these methods are incorporated by reference into this regulation and may be obtained from the sources identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(2) The full texts of the methods from the following references which are cited in the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are incorporated by reference into this regulation and may be obtained from the sources identified. All costs cited are subject to change and must be verified from the indicated sources. The full texts of all the test procedures cited are available for inspection at the Analytical Methods Staff, Office of Water, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [65 FR 4381, Jan. 27, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 70315, Nov. 22, 2000; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




