# ยง 18.9   Conduct of investigations and tests.

(a) Prior to the issuance of an approval, certification, or acceptance of a hose, only MSHA personnel, representative(s) of the applicant, and such other person(s) as may be mutually agreed upon may observe any part of the investigation or tests. The MSHA will hold as confidential and will not disclose principles or patentable features; nor will it disclose to persons other than the applicant the results of tests, chemical analysis of materials or any details of the applicant's drawings, specifications, instructions, and related material. 


(b) Unless notified to the contrary by MSHA, the applicant shall provide assistance in disassembling parts for inspection, preparing parts for testing, and preparing equipment for return shipment. Explosion-proof enclosures shall be drilled and tapped for pipe connections in accordance with instructions supplied by MSHA. 


(c) MSHA reserves the right to inspect a complete machine, component part, or accessory at a place other than the Bureau's premises, such as the assembly plant or other location acceptable to MSHA, at the applicant's expense. 


(d) Applicants shall be responsible for their representatives present during tests and for observers admitted at their request and shall save the Government harmless in the event of damage to applicant's property or injury to applicant's representatives or to observers admitted at their request. 



---

[N] [33 FR 4660, Mar. 19, 1968; 33 FR 6345, Apr. 26, 1968, as amended at 57 FR 61223, Dec. 23, 1992; 73 FR 80612, Dec. 31, 2008] 




