# ยง 102-75.1162   How will information be collected?

(a) *Canvass of landholding agencies.* On a quarterly basis, HUD will canvass each landholding agency to collect information about property described as unutilized, underutilized, excess or surplus in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 524; however, HUD will accept property information between canvasses. Each canvass will collect information on properties not previously reported, and about property reported previously where the status or classification of the property has changed, or improvements have been made to the property. HUD will request descriptive information on properties sufficient to make a reasonable determination, under the criteria described in this section, of the suitability of a property for use to assist the homeless. Landholding agencies must report property information to HUD using the property checklist developed by HUD for that purpose. Property checklists submitted in response to a canvass must be submitted to HUD within 25 days of receipt of the canvass.


(b) *Agency annual suitable property report.* By December 31 of each year, each landholding agency must notify HUD of the current availability status and classification of each property controlled by the agency that:


(1) Was included in a list of suitable properties published that year by HUD; and


(2) Remains available for application for use to assist the homeless or has become available for application during that year.


(c) *GSA inventory.* HUD will collect information, in the same manner as described in paragraph (a) of this section, from GSA regarding property that is in GSA's current inventory of excess or surplus property.


(d) *Change in status.* If the information provided on the property checklist changes subsequent to HUD's determination of suitability, including any improvements or other alterations to the physical condition of the land or the buildings on the property, and the property remains unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus, the landholding agency must submit a revised property checklist in response to the next quarterly canvass. HUD will review for suitability and, if it differs from the previous determination, repost the property information on the HUD website. For example, property determined unsuitable due to extensive deterioration may have had improvements, or property determined suitable may subsequently be found to be extensively deteriorated.




