# ยง 600.755   Establishment of a fishery negotiation panel.

(a) *General authority.* (1) A Council may establish an FNP to assist in the development of specific conservation and management measures for a fishery under its authority.


(2) NMFS may establish an FNP to assist in the development of specific conservation and management measures required for:


(i) A fishery for which the Secretary has authority under section 304(e)(5) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, regarding rebuilding of overfished fisheries;


(ii) A fishery for which the Secretary has authority under 16 U.S.C. section 304(g), regarding highly migratory species; or


(iii) Any fishery with the approval of the appropriate Council.


(b) *Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA)* In establishing and administering such an FNP, the Council or NMFS shall comply with the FACA with respect to such FNP.


(c) *Balance.* Each potentially affected organization or individual does not necessarily have to have its own representative, but each interest must be adequately represented. The intent is to have a group that as a whole reflects a proper balance and mix of interests. Representatives must agree, in writing, to negotiate in good faith.


(d) *Membership.* The Council or NMFS shall limit membership on an FNP to no more than 25 members, unless the Council or NMFS determines that a greater number of members is necessary for the functioning of the FNP or to achieve balanced membership. Each FNP shall include at least one person representing the Council in addition to at least one person representing NMFS.




