# ยง 2556.330   When may a VISTA be provided coverage for legal defense expenses related to criminal proceedings?

(a) For the legal defense of a VISTA member who is charged with a criminal offense related to the VISTA member's service, up to and including arraignment in Federal, State, and local criminal proceedings, AmeriCorps may pay actual and reasonable legal expenses. AmeriCorps is not required to pay any expenses for the legal defense of a VISTA member where they are charged with a criminal offense arising from alleged activity or action that is unrelated to that VISTA's service.


(b) A VISTA member's service is clearly unrelated to a charged offense when:


(1) The activity or action is alleged to have occurred prior to the VISTA member's VISTA service.


(2) The VISTA member is not at their assigned project location, such as during periods of approved leave, medical leave, emergency leave, or in administrative hold status in the VISTA program.


(3) The activity or action is alleged to have occurred at or near their assigned project, but is clearly not part of, or required by, the VISTA member's service assignment.


(c) For the legal defense, beyond arraignment in Federal, State, and local criminal proceedings, of a VISTA member who is charged with a criminal offense, AmeriCorps may also pay actual and reasonable legal expenses when:


(1) The charged offense against the VISTA member relates exclusively to their VISTA assignment or status as a VISTA member;


(2) The charged offense against the VISTA member arises from an alleged activity or action that is a part of, or required by, the VISTA member's VISTA assignment;


(3) The VISTA member has not admitted a willful or knowing violation of law; or


(4) The charged offense against the VISTA member is not a minor offense or misdemeanor, such as a minor vehicle violation.


(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, there may be situations in which the criminal proceedings at issue arise from a matter that also gives rise to a civil claim under the Federal Tort Claims Act. In such a situation, the U.S. Department of Justice may, on behalf of the United States, agree to defend the VISTA. If the U.S. Department of Justice agrees to defend the VISTA member, unless there is a conflict between the VISTA member's interest and that of the United States, AmeriCorps will not pay for expenses associated with any additional legal representation (such as counsel fees for private counsel) for the VISTA member.






