# ยง 70.223   Exceptions to general period of limitations on assessment and collection.

(a) *False return.* In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade any tax, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time after such false or fraudulent return is filed.


(b) *Willful attempt to evade tax.* In the case of a willful attempt in any manner to defeat or evade any tax imposed by provisions of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time.


(c) *No return.* In the case of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time after the date prescribed for filing the return.


(d) *Extension by agreement.* The time prescribed by 26 U.S.C. 6501 for the assessment of any tax imposed by provisions of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau may, prior to the expiration of such time, be extended for any period of time agreed upon in writing by the taxpayer and the appropriate TTB officer. The extension shall become effective when the agreement has been executed by both parties. The period agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-251, 52 FR 19314, May 22, 1987. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47606, 47641, Nov. 14, 1990; T.D. ATF-331, 57 FR 40328, Sept. 3, 1992]




