# ยง 59.20   Recordkeeping.

(a) *In general.* Each packer or importer required to report information to the Secretary under the Act and this Part shall maintain for 2 years and make available to the Secretary the following information on request:


(1) The original contracts, agreements, receipts, and other records associated with any transaction relating to the purchase, sale, pricing, transportation, delivery, weighing, slaughter, or carcass characteristics of all livestock or livestock products; and


(2) Such records or other information as is necessary or appropriate to verify the accuracy of the information required to be reported under the Act and this Part.


(b) *Purchases of cattle and swine and sales of boxed beef cuts.* A record of a purchase of a lot of cattle or swine, or a sale of a unit of boxed beef cuts, by a packer shall evidence whether the purchase or sale occurred:


(1) Before 10 a.m. central time;


(2) Between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. central time; or


(3) After 2 p.m. central time.


(c) *Purchases of lambs.* A record of a purchase of a lot of lambs by a packer shall evidence whether the purchase occurred:


(1) Before 2 p.m. central time; or


(2) After 2 p.m. central time.


(d) *Sales of lamb carcasses and sales of boxed lamb cuts.* A record of a sale by a packer of lamb carcasses and cuts, shall evidence time and date the sale occurred:


(1) Before 2 p.m. central time; or


(2) After 2 p.m. central time.


(e) *Reporting sales of boxed beef cuts and sales of boxed lamb cuts.* (1) Beef packers must report all sales of boxed beef items by the applicable Institutional Meat Purchase Specifications (IMPS) item number or the boxed beef items' cutting and trimming specifications.


(2) Lamb packers and importers must report all sales of boxed lamb items by the applicable Institutional Meat Purchase Specifications (IMPS) item number or the boxed lamb items' cutting and trimming specifications.


(f) *Reporting sales of wholesale pork.* A record of a sale of wholesale pork by a packer shall evidence whether the sale occurred:


(1) Before 10:00 a.m. central time;


(2) Between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. central time; or


(3) After 2:00 p.m. central time.



---

[N] [73 FR 28633, May 16, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 50573, Aug. 22, 2012]




