# § 1.6044-2   Returns of information as to payments of patronage dividends.

(a) *Requirement of reporting*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in § 1.6044-4, every organization described in paragraph (b) of this section which makes payments with respect to patronage occurring on or after the first day of the first taxable year of the organization beginning after December 31, 1962, of amounts described in § 1.6044-3 aggregating $10 or more to any person during any calendar year shall make an information return on Forms 1096 and 1099 for the calendar year showing the aggregate amount of such payments, the name and address of the person to whom paid, the total of such payments for all persons, and such other information as is required by the forms. The organization is required to make an information return regardless of the amount of the payment if the tax imposed by section 3406 is required to be withheld. Thus, in the case of any amount subject to backup withholding under section 3406 and not refunded by the payor before the due date of the information return in accordance with the regulations under section 3406, an information return shall be made even if the payment is not generally reportable because it is made to an exempt recipient described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii) or the amount paid during the calendar year to the recipient aggregates less than $10.


(2) *Definitions.* The term “person” when used in this section does not include the United States, a State, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, a political subdivision of a State or of a foreign government, or an international organization. Therefore, payment of amounts described in § 1.6044-3 to one of these entities need not be reported.


(3) *Determination of person to whom a patronage dividend is paid.* For purposes of applying the provisions of this section, the person whose identifying number is required to be included by the cooperative on an information return with respect to a patronage dividend shall be considered the person to whom such dividend is paid. For regulations relating to the use of identifying numbers, see § 1.6109-1.


(4) *Inclusion of other payments.* The Form 1099 filed by an organization with respect to payments of patronage dividends made to any person during a calendar year may, at the election of the organization, include other payments made by it to such person during such year which are required to be reported on Form 1099.


(b) *Organizations subject to reporting requirement.* The organizations subject to the reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are:


(1) Any organization exempt from tax under section 521 (relating to exemption of farmers' cooperatives from tax), and


(2) Any corporation operating on a cooperative basis other than an organization:


(i) Which is exempt from tax under chapter 1 (other than section 521), or


(ii) Which is subject to the provisions of part II of subchapter H of chapter 1 (relating to mutual savings banks, etc.), or subchapter L of chapter 1 (relating to insurance companies), or


(iii) Which is engaged in furnishing electric energy, or providing telephone service, to persons in rural areas.


(c) *When payment deemed made.* For purposes of this section, money or other property (except written notices of allocation) is deemed to have been paid when it is credited or set apart to a person without any substantial limitation or restriction as to the time or manner of payment or condition upon which payment is to be made, and is made available to him so that it may be drawn at any time, and its receipt brought within his own control and disposition. A written notice of allocation is considered to have been paid when it is issued by the organization to the distributee. Similarly, a qualified check (as defined in section 1388(d)(4)) is considered to have been paid when it is issued to the distributee.


(d) *Time and place for filing.* The return required under this section on Forms 1096 and 1099 for any calendar year shall be filed after September 30 of such year, but not before the payer's final payment for the year, and on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the following year, with any of the Internal Revenue Service Centers, the addresses of which are listed in the instructions for such forms. For extensions of time for filing returns under this section, see § 1.6081-1. 


(e) *Cross-reference to penalty.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to file timely a correct information return required under section 6044(a), see § 301.6721-1 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations). See § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.


(f) *Magnetic media requirement.* For the requirement to submit the information required by Form 1099 on magnetic media for payments after December 31, 1983, see section 6011(e) and § 301.6011-2 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations). For rules relating to permission to submit the information required by Form 1099 on magnetic tape or other media, see § 1.9101-1.



---

[N] [T.D. 6628, 27 FR 12798, Dec. 28, 1962, as amended by T.D. 6677, 28 FR 10147, Sept. 17, 1963; T.D. 6879, 31 FR 3493, Mar. 8, 1966; T.D. 6883, 31 FR 6589, May 3, 1966; T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53476, Oct. 14, 1997; T.D. 8895, 65 FR 50407, Aug. 18, 2000]




