# § 32.34   Iowa.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *De Soto National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow youth hunting of ring-necked pheasant on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The refuge will annually determine hunting seasons, dates, and designated areas, and publish them in the refuge brochure.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The refuge manager will annually determine and publish hunting seasons and dates, and will include them in the refuge access permit (signed brochure).


(ii) You must possess and carry a refuge access permit (signed brochure) at all times while in the hunting area. Hunters may enter the hunting areas only within the dates listed on the refuge access permit (signed brochure).


(iii) Hunters with a valid Iowa or Nebraska resident hunting permit may access all areas open to hunting. Reciprocity exists, with both States allowing hunters with either resident permit to access refuge hunting land in either State.


(iv) Hunters holding nonresident Nebraska or nonresident Iowa permits may hunt only on the ground that lies within the State that issued the nonresident permit.


(v) We allow hunters in the designated area from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(vi) We prohibit the use of a crossbow as archery equipment unless the hunter has obtained a State-issued disability crossbow permit.


(vii) All hunters must be in possession of a valid entrance fee permit.


(viii) Hunters must remove hunting blinds or stands and other property by the close of the season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ix) We prohibit shooting on or over any refuge road open to vehicle traffic within 30 feet (9 meters (m)) of the centerline.


(x) We prohibit field dressing of any big game within 100 feet (30 m) of the centerline of any refuge road.


(xi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(xii) We allow two portable tree stands/blinds per hunter within the hunt area. Of those, only one stand/blind can be left on the refuge from 1 week prior to the start of the designated hunt season to 1 week after the end of the designated hunt season.


(xiii) Unattended stands and blinds must be plainly labeled with the full name and/or hunting license number of the owner. Labels must be visible from ground level.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow ice fishing in DeSoto Lake from January 2 through the end of February.


(ii) We allow the use of pole and line or rod and reel fishing in DeSoto Lake from April 15 through October 14.


(iii) We allow the use of archery and spear fishing for nongame fish only from April 15 through October 14.


(iv) When the lake is open to ice fishing, we prohibit motor- or wind-driven conveyances on the lake.


(v) We allow the use of portable ice fishing shelters on a daily basis from January 2 through the end of February.


(vi) Anglers may use no more than two lines and two hooks per line, including ice fishing.


(vii) We prohibit the use of trotlines, float lines, bank lines, or setlines.


(viii) Anglers must adhere to minimum length and creel limits as posted.


(ix) We prohibit anglers leaving any personal property, litter, fish, or fish parts on the banks, in the water, or on the ice (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(x) We prohibit digging or seining for bait.


(xi) We prohibit take or possession of turtle or frog at any time (see §§ 27.21 of this chapter).


(xii) We allow anglers on the refuge from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(b) *Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: In areas open to hunting, we allow hunting beginning November 1 until the close of State hunting seasons or January 15, whichever occurs first.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) In areas open to hunting, we allow hunting beginning November 1 until the close of State hunting seasons or January 15, whichever occurs first.


(ii) We allow only archery and muzzleloader hunting.


(iii) We allow deer drives only during lawful party hunting conducted within the refuge, as governed by State regulations. We prohibit driving deer from or through the refuge to any persons hunting outside the refuge boundary.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(c) *Iowa Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds throughout the district subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit leaving boats, decoys, or other personal property unattended at any time. You must remove all personal property, which includes boats, decoys, and blinds, brought onto the district at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting throughout the district subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting throughout the district and subject to the following conditions:


(i) For wild turkey hunting, you may possess only approved nontoxic shot shells while in the field (see § 32.2(k)).


(ii) You may leave tree stands in an area for a continuous period of time beginning 7 days prior to the open season for hunting deer and ending 7 days after the final day of that season. You must clearly mark the stand with your Iowa hunting license number.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing throughout the district subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) You must remove all ice fishing shelters and other personal property at the end of each day's fishing (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(d) *Neal Smith National Wildlife Refuge*— 

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of dove, duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow entry into the refuge 1 hour before legal sunrise and require hunters to leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit shooting on or over any refuge road within 50 feet (15 meters) from the centerline.


(iii) You must possess and carry a refuge permit (free brochure available at the refuge visitor center).


(iv) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of ring-necked pheasant, bobwhite quail, pigeon, crow, cottontail rabbit, gray and fox squirrel, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) You may only possess approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) when turkey hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge and subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow the use of portable stands and blinds for hunting, and hunters must remove them at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) [Reserved]


(e) *Northern Tallgrass Prairie National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, merganser, coot, rail (Virginia and sora only), woodcock, snipe, and dove (mourning and Eurasian collared) on designated areas subject to the following conditions:


(i) For units adjacent to and managed by Neal Smith National Wildlife Refuge, you must follow the refuge-specific regulations provided in this paragraph (e).


(ii) Hunters must remove boats, decoys, portable or temporary blinds, materials brought onto the refuge, and other personal property at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter). Hunters must dismantle hunting blinds, platforms, and ladders made from natural vegetation at the end of each day.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting, except when hunting furbearers, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of wild turkey, ring-necked pheasant, bobwhite quail, gray partridge, cottontail rabbit, squirrel (fox and gray), groundhog, raccoon, opossum, fox (red and gray), coyote, badger, striped skunk, and crow on designated areas subject to the following conditions:


(i) Shotgun hunters may possess only approved nontoxic shot when hunting turkey (see § 32.2(k)).


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of temporary stands, blinds, platforms, or ladders.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(iii) We prohibit shooting on, from, over, across, or within 30 feet (9 meters) of a roadway open to public vehicle transportation at a big game animal or a decoy of a big game animal.


(iii) For all counties with the exception of Jasper, you may leave tree stands in an area for a continuous period of time beginning 7 days prior to the open season for hunting deer and ending 7 days after the final day of that season. You must clearly mark the stand with your Iowa hunting license number.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of any turtle, frog, leech, minnow, crayfish, and mussel (clam) species by any method on the refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).






(f) *Port Louisa National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: You must remove boats, decoys, and portable blinds at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) For wild turkey hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells (see § 32.2(k)). We allow shotgun slug or muzzleloading rifle for hunting coyotes.


(ii) We allow only squirrel hunting on the Keithsburg Division from the beginning of the State season through September 15.


(iii) We allow hunting on the Horseshoe Bend Division from September 1 through September 15, and from December 1 through February 28. We allow spring turkey hunting.


(iv) We allow hunting on the Big Timber Division from September 1 through February 28. We allow spring turkey hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of only portable stands, and you must remove them at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit the taking of turtle or frog (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow fishing only from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iii) Anglers must remove boats and all other fishing devices at the end of each day's fishing activity (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(g) *Union Slough National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, rail (Virginia and sora only), woodcock, dove, crow, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunters on the refuge from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) We allow boats or other floating devices when hunting. You may not leave boats unattended.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(iv) We prohibit entry into any closed area to retrieve downed game, unless the hunter has received written permission from the refuge manager.


(v) We prohibit hunting on road rights-of-way on any portion of the refuge not open to hunting. The road right-of-way extends to the center of the road.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, gray partridge, cottontail rabbit, squirrel (fox and gray), groundhog, raccoon, opossum, fox, coyote, and skunk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit possession of shotgun slugs.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms to be left on the refuge from 7 days prior to the first deer hunting season; you must remove them prior to 7 days following the last deer hunting season (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Turkey hunters must remove blinds and stands each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) You must label portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms that are left unattended with your hunting license number. The label must be legible from the ground.


(iv) You must remove any other personal property brought onto the refuge at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(v) We allow deer hunters on the refuge from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(vi) Deer hunters may possess only shot shells that shoot a single projectile (*i.e.,* slugs).


(vii) For wild turkey hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells while in the field (see § 32.2(k)).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We allow fishing from boats on the Buffalo Creek Bottoms; however, we prohibit the use of gasoline motors.


(iii) We prohibit the use or possession of lead terminal tackle.


(h) *Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge.* Refer to § 32.42(r) for regulations.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54111, Aug. 31, 2020]




