# § 1210.201   How do I submit Form ONRR-4430, Solid Minerals Production and Royalty Report?

(a) *What to submit.* (1) You must submit a completed Form ONRR-4430 for— 


(i) Production of all coal and other solid minerals from any Federal or Indian lease; 


(ii) Sale of any such mineral; 


(iii) Any such mineral held in stockpile or inventory; and 


(iv) Payment of rents (other than those for which you receive from ONRR a Courtesy Notice as defined in § 1218.51(a) of this chapter), minimum royalty, deferred bonus, advance royalty, minimum royalty payable in advance, settlements, recoupments, and other financial obligations. 


(2) You must submit a completed Form ONRR-4430 for any product you sell from a remote storage site. If you sell from five or fewer remote storage sites, you must report sales from each site on separate Forms ONRR-4430. If you sell from more than five remote storage sites, you must total the data from all sites and report the summarized data on one Form ONRR-4430. 


(3) Instructions for completing and submitting Form ONRR-4430 are available on our Internet reporting web site or you may contact us toll free at 1-888-201-6416. 


(b) *When to submit.* (1) Unless your lease terms specify a different frequency for royalty payments, you must submit your Form ONRR-4430 on or before the end of the month following the month in which you produce any solid mineral, sell any solid mineral, or hold any solid mineral production in stockpile or inventory. However, if the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, your Form ONRR-4430 is due on the next business day. 


(2) If your lease terms specify a different frequency for royalty payment, then you must submit your Form ONRR-4430 on or before the date on which you must pay royalty under the terms of the lease. 


(3) You must submit your Form ONRR-4430 for payment of rents (other than those for which you receive from ONRR a Courtesy Notice as defined in § 1218.51(a) of this chapter), minimum royalty, deferred bonus, advance royalty, minimum royalty payable in advance, settlements, recoupments, and other financial obligations on or before the date on which you must pay those obligations under the terms of the lease. 


(4) If the information on a previously reported Form ONRR-4430 is no longer correct, you must submit a revised Form ONRR-4430 by the last day of the month in which you learn that the previously reported information is no longer correct, except when the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday. If the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, your revised Form ONRR-4430 is due on the first business day of the following month. 


(c) *How to submit.* (1) You must submit Form ONRR-4430 electronically using our Internet reporting web site unless you meet the conditions in paragraph (c)(2). We will provide written instructions and a valid login and password before you begin reporting. 


(2) You are not required to report electronically if you are a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration (13 CFR 121.201) and you have no computer, no plans to purchase a computer, and no contract with an electronic reporting service. 


(3) If you do not report electronically, you must submit the completed Form ONRR-4430 to us at one of the following addresses, unless ONRR publishes notice in the _Federal Register_ giving a different address: 


(i) *For U.S. Postal Service regular mail or Express Mail:* Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR), P.O. Box 25165, MS 633000B, Denver, CO 80225-0165; or 


(ii) *For courier service or overnight mail (excluding Express Mail):* Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Building 85, Denver Federal Center, Room A322, Denver, Colorado 80225. 



---

[N] [66 FR 45771, Aug. 30, 2001; 66 FR 50827, Oct. 5, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 25879, May 2, 2012; 87 FR 21745, Apr. 13, 2022]




