# § 201.431   Commission consideration of actions made pursuant to delegated authority.

(a) *Scope of review.* The Commission may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, any action made pursuant to authority delegated in §§ 200.30-1 through 200.30-18 of this chapter. 


(b) *Standards for granting review pursuant to a petition for review*—(1) *Mandatory review.* After a petition for review has been filed, the Commission shall review any action that it would be required to review pursuant to § 201.411(b)(1) if the action was made as the initial decision of a hearing officer. 


(2) *Discretionary review.* The Commission may decline to review any other action. In determining whether to grant review, the Commission shall consider the factors set forth in § 201.411(b)(2). 


(c) *Commission review other than pursuant to a petition for review.* The Commission may, on its own initiative, order review of any action made pursuant to delegated authority at any time, provided, however, that where there are one or more parties to the matter, such review shall not be ordered more than ten days after the action. The vote of one member of the Commission, conveyed to the Secretary, shall be sufficient to bring a matter before the Commission for review. 


(d) *Required items in an order for review.* In an order granting a petition for review or directing review on the Commission's own initiative, the Commission shall set forth the time within which any party or other person may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the action made by delegated authority and shall state whether a stay shall be granted, if none is in effect, or shall be continued, if in effect pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section. 


(e) *Automatic stay of delegated action.* An action made pursuant to delegated authority shall have immediate effect and be deemed the action of the Commission. Upon filing with the Commission of a notice of intention to petition for review, or upon notice to the Secretary of the vote of a Commissioner that a matter be reviewed, an action made pursuant to delegated authority shall be stayed until the Commission orders otherwise, provided, however, there shall be no automatic stay of an action: 


(1) To grant a stay of action by the Commission or a self-regulatory organization as authorized by 17 CFR 200.30-14(g) (5)-(6); or 


(2) To commence a subpoena enforcement proceeding as authorized by 17 CFR 200.30-4(a)(10). 


(f) *Effectiveness of stay or of Commission decision to modify or reverse a delegated action.* As against any person who shall have acted in reliance upon any action at a delegated level, any stay or any modification or reversal by the Commission of such action shall be effective only from the time such person receives actual notice of such stay, modification or reversal. 



---

[N] [60 FR 32796, June 23, 1995; 60 FR 46500, Sept. 7, 1995]




