# § 144.39   Modification or revocation and reissuance of permits.

When the Director receives any information (for example, inspects the facility, receives information submitted by the permittee as required in the permit (see § 144.51 of this chapter), receives a request for modification or revocation and reissuance under § 124.5, or conducts a review of the permit file) he or she may determine whether or not one or more of the causes listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for modification or revocation and reissuance or both exist. If cause exists, the Director may modify or revoke and reissue the permit accordingly, subject to the limitations of paragraph (c) of this section, and may request an updated application if necessary. When a permit is modified, only the conditions subject to modification are reopened. If a permit is revoked and reissued, the entire permit is reopened and subject to revision and the permit is reissued for a new term. See § 124.5(c)(2) of this chapter. If cause does not exist under this section or § 144.41 of this chapter, the Director shall not modify or revoke and reissue the permit. If a permit modification satisfies the criteria in § 144.41 for “minor modifications” the permit may be modified without a draft permit or public review. Otherwise, a draft permit must be prepared and other procedures in part 124 must be followed.


(a) *Causes for modification.* The following are causes for modification. For Class I hazardous waste injection wells, Class II, Class III or Class VI wells the following may be causes for revocation and reissuance as well as modification; and for all other wells the following may be cause for revocation or reissuance as well as modification when the permittee requests or agrees.


(1) *Alterations.* There are material and substantial alterations or additions to the permitted facility or activity which occurred after permit issuance which justify the application of permit conditions that are different or absent in the existing permit.


(2) *Information.* The Director has received information. Permits other than for Class II and III wells may be modified during their terms for this cause only if the information was not available at the time of permit issuance (other than revised regulations, guidance, or test methods) and would have justified the application of different permit conditions at the time of issuance. For UIC area permits (§ 144.33), this cause shall include any information indicating that cumulative effects on the environment are unacceptable.


(3) *New regulations.* The standards or regulations on which the permit was based have been changed by promulgation of new or amended standards or regulations or by judicial decision after the permit was issued. Permits other than for Class I hazardous waste injection wells, Class II, Class III or Class VI wells may be modified during their permit terms for this cause only as follows:


(i) For promulgation of amended standards or regulations, when:


(A) The permit condition requested to be modified was based on a promulgated part 146 regulation; and


(B) EPA has revised, withdrawn, or modified that portion of the regulation on which the permit condition was based, and


(C) A permittee requests modification in accordance with § 124.5 within ninety (90) days after _Federal Register_ notice of the action on which the request is based.


(ii) For judicial decisions, a court of competent jurisdiction has remanded and stayed EPA promulgated regulations if the remand and stay concern that portion of the regulations on which the permit condition was based and a request is filed by the permittee in accordance with § 124.5 within ninety (90) days of judicial remand.


(4) *Compliance schedules.* The Director determines good cause exists for modification of a compliance schedule, such as an act of God, strike, flood, or materials shortage or other events over which the permittee has little or no control and for which there is no reasonably available remedy. See also § 144.41(c) (minor modifications).


(5) *Basis for modification of Class VI permits.* Additionally, for Class VI wells, whenever the Director determines that permit changes are necessary based on:


(i) Area of review reevaluations under § 146.84(e)(1) of this chapter;


(ii) Any amendments to the testing and monitoring plan under § 146.90(j) of this chapter;


(iii) Any amendments to the injection well plugging plan under § 146.92(c) of this chapter;


(iv) Any amendments to the post-injection site care and site closure plan under § 146.93(a)(3) of this chapter;


(v) Any amendments to the emergency and remedial response plan under § 146.94(d) of this chapter; or


(vi) A review of monitoring and/or testing results conducted in accordance with permit requirements.


(b) *Causes for modification or revocation and reissuance.* The following are causes to modify or, alternatively, revoke and reissue a permit:


(1) Cause exists for termination under § 144.40, and the Director determines that modification or revocation and reissuance is appropriate.


(2) The Director has received notification (as required in the permit, see § 144.41(d)) of a proposed transfer of the permit. A permit also may be modified to reflect a transfer after the effective date of an automatic transfer (§ 144.38(b)) but will not be revoked and reissued after the effective date of the transfer except upon the request of the new permittee.


(3) A determination that the waste being injected is a hazardous waste as defined in § 261.3 either because the definition has been revised, or because a previous determination has been changed.


(c) *Facility siting.* Suitability of the facility location will not be considered at the time of permit modification or revocation and reissuance unless new information or standards indicate that a threat to human health or the environment exists which was unknown at the time of permit issuance.



---

[N] [48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 28147, July 26, 1988; 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]




