# ยง 2.208   Deposit accounts.

(a) For the convenience of attorneys, and the general public in paying any fees due, in ordering copies of records, or services offered by the Office, deposit accounts may be established in the Office. A minimum deposit of $1,000 is required for paying any fees due or in ordering any services offered by the Office. The Office will issue a deposit account statement at the end of each month. A remittance must be made promptly upon receipt of the statement to cover the value of items or services charged to the account and thus restore the account to its established normal deposit. An amount sufficient to cover all fees, copies, or services requested must always be on deposit. Charges to accounts with insufficient funds will not be accepted. A service charge (ยง 2.6(b)(11)) will be assessed for each month that the balance at the end of the month is below $1,000.


(b) A general authorization to charge all fees, or only certain fees to a deposit account containing sufficient funds may be filed in an individual application, either for the entire pendency of the application or with respect to a particular document filed. An authorization to charge a fee to a deposit account will not be considered payment of the fee on the date the authorization to charge the fee is effective as to the particular fee to be charged unless sufficient funds are present in the account to cover the fee.


(c) A deposit account holder may replenish the deposit account by submitting a payment to the Office. A payment to replenish a deposit account must be submitted by one of the methods set forth in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of this section.


(1) A payment to replenish a deposit account may be submitted by electronic funds transfer through the Federal Reserve Fedwire System, which requires that the following information be provided to the deposit account holder's bank or financial institution:


(i) Name of the Bank, which is Treas NYC (Treasury New York City);


(ii) Bank Routing Code, which is 021030004;


(iii) United States Patent and Trademark Office account number with the Department of the Treasury, which is 13100001; and


(iv) The deposit account holder's company name and deposit account number.


(2) A payment to replenish a deposit account may be submitted by electronic funds transfer over the Office's Internet Web site (*www.uspto.gov*).


(3) A payment to replenish a deposit account may be addressed to: Mail Stop Deposit Accounts, Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, P.O. Box 1450, Alexandria, Virginia 22313-1450.



---

[N] [68 FR 48292, Aug. 13, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 43752, July 22, 2004; 70 FR 56128, Sept. 26, 2005; 73 FR 67775, Nov. 17, 2008; 81 FR 72707, Oct. 21, 2016; 86 FR 35231, July 2, 2021]




