# ยง 104.4   Products for research and evaluation.

(a) An application for a U.S. Veterinary Biological Product Permit to import a biological product for research and evaluation shall be accompanied by a brief description of such product, methods of propagating antigens including composition of medium, species of animals or cell cultures involved, degree of inactivation or attenuation, recommendations for use, and the proposed plan of evaluation. The applicant shall also provide any information the Administrator may require in order to assess the product's impact on the environment.


(b)(1) A permit to import a biological product for research and evaluation shall not be issued unless the scientific capabilities of the investigator are determined to be adequate to safeguard domestic animals and protect public health, interest, or safety from any deleterious effects which might result from use of such product. Special restrictions or tests may be specified as part of the permit when they are deemed necessary or advisable by the Administrator.


(2) No person shall ship a product imported under this section for research and evaluation anywhere in or from the United States unless authorized by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of ยง 103.3 of this subchapter.


(c) A biological product shall not be imported for Research and Evaluation which is not packaged and labeled in accordance with ยง 112.9 of this subchapter. 


(d) When a licensed product has been exported from the United States, a permit may be issued to the producer for a small quantity of such product for in vitro Research and Evaluation tests: *Provided,* That, the importation of such product will not endanger the livestock or poultry of this country.



---

[N] [38 FR 32916, Nov. 29, 1973, as amended at 48 FR 57473, Dec. 30, 1983; 52 FR 30131, Aug. 13, 1987; 56 FR 66783, Dec. 26, 1991]




