# § 369.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply: 


(a) *Bank* means, unless the context indicates otherwise: 


(1) A State nonmember bank; and 


(2) A foreign bank as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7) and 12 CFR 346.1(a).


(b) *Covered interstate branch* means: 


(1) Any branch of a State nonmember bank, and any insured branch of a foreign bank licensed by a State, that: 


(i) Is established or acquired outside the bank's home State pursuant to the interstate branching authority granted by the Interstate Act or by any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law; or 


(ii) Could not have been established or acquired outside of the bank's home State but for the establishment or acquisition of a branch described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and 


(2) Any bank or branch of a bank controlled by an out-of-State bank holding company. 


(c) *Home State* means: 


(1) With respect to a State bank, the State that chartered the bank; 


(2) With respect to a national bank, the State in which the main office of the bank is located; 


(3) With respect to a bank holding company, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such company are the largest on the later of: 


(i) July 1, 1966; or 


(ii) The date on which the company becomes a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act; 


(4) With respect to a foreign bank:


(i) For purposes of determining whether a U.S. branch of a foreign bank is a covered interstate branch, the home State of the foreign bank as determined in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 3103(c) and 12 CFR 347.202(j); and 


(ii) For purposes of determining whether a branch of a U.S. bank controlled by a foreign bank is a covered interstate branch, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such foreign bank are the largest on the later of: 


(A) July 1, 1966; or 


(B) The date on which the foreign bank becomes a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. 


(d) *Host State* means a State in which a covered interstate branch is established or acquired. 


(e) *Host state loan-to-deposit ratio* generally means, with respect to a particular host state, the ratio of total loans in the host state relative to total deposits from the host state for all banks (including institutions covered under the definition of “bank” in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(1)) that have that state as their home state, as determined and updated periodically by the appropriate Federal banking agencies and made available to the public. 


(f) *Out-of-State bank holding company* means, with respect to any State, a bank holding company whose home State is another State. 


(g) *State* means state as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(3). 


(h) *Statewide loan-to-deposit ratio* means, with respect to a bank, the ratio of the bank's loans to its deposits in a state in which the bank has one or more covered interstate branches, as determined by the FDIC.



---

[N] [62 FR 47737, Sept. 10, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 38848, June 6, 2002]




