# § 173.315   Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.

(a) Liquefied compressed gases that are transported in UN portable tanks, DOT specification portable tanks, or cargo tanks must be prepared in accordance with this section, § 173.32, § 173.33 and subpart E or subpart G of part 180 of this subchapter, as applicable. For cryogenic liquid in cargo tanks, see § 173.318. For marking requirements for portable tanks and cargo tanks, see § 172.326 and § 172.328 of this subchapter, as applicable.


(1) *UN portable tanks:* UN portable tanks must be loaded and offered for transportation in accordance with portable tank provision T50 in § 172.102 of this subchapter.


(2) *Cargo tanks and DOT specification portable tanks:* Cargo tanks and DOT specification portable tanks must be loaded and offered for transportation in accordance with the following table (for purposes of the following table, a column entry with “do” indicates “same as above”):




(b) Maximum permitted filling densities for cargo and portable tank containers for transportation of butadiene, stabilized, and liquefied petroleum gas are as follows:


(1) *Odorization.* All liquefied petroleum gas must be odorized as required in this paragraph to indicate positively, by a distinctive odor, the presence of gas down to a concentration in air of not over one-fifth the lower limit of combustibility; however, odorization is not required if it is harmful in the use or further processing of the liquefied petroleum gas or if it will serve no useful purpose as a warning agent in such use or further processing.


(i) The lower limits of combustibility of the more commonly used liquefied petroleum gases are: Propane, 2.15 percent; butane, 1.55 percent. These figures represent volumetric percentages of gas-air mixtures in each case.


(ii) The use of 1.0 pound of ethyl mercaptan per 10,000 gallons of liquefied petroleum gas is considered sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph (b). Use of any other odorant is not prohibited so long as there is enough to meet the requirements of this paragraph.


(2) *Odorant fade.* For cargo tanks or portable tanks being transported from a refinery, gas plant or pipeline terminal and in addition to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the offeror must ensure that enough odorant will remain in the cargo tank or portable tank during the course of transportation. The offeror must have procedures in place to:


(i) Ensure quantitative testing methods are used to measure the amount of odorant in the liquefied petroleum gas;


(ii) Ensure that, when the odorization of liquefied petroleum gas is manually injected, the required amount of odorant is being added;


(iii) Ensure that, when odorization of liquefied petroleum gas is automatically injected, equipment calibration checks are conducted to ensure the required amount of odorant is consistently added;


(iv) Ensure that quality control measures are in place to make sure that persons who receive cargo tanks or portable tanks that have been subjected to any condition that could lead to corrosion of the packaging or receive new or recently cleaned cargo tanks or portable tanks are notified of this information and that a person filling these packagings implement quality control measures to ensure that potential odorant fade is addressed;


(v) Inspect a cargo tank or portable tank for signs of oxidation or corrosion; and


(vi) Take corrective action needed to ensure enough odorant remains in the cargo tank or portable tank during the course of transportation, such as increasing the amount of odorant added to the liquefied petroleum gas.


(c) Except as otherwise provided, the loading of a liquefied gas into a cargo tank or portable tank shall be determined by weight or by a suitable liquid level gauging device. The vapor pressure (psig) at 115 °F. must not exceed the design pressure of the cargo tank or portable tank container. The outage and filling limits for liquefied gases must be as prescribed in § 173.24b of this part, except that this requirement does not apply to:


(1) *A tank containing carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid.* Such tank is required to be equipped with suitable pressure control valves and may not be filled to a level exceeding 95 percent of the volumetric capacity of the tank.


(2) *A tank containing ethane, refrigerated liquid; ethane-propane mixture, refrigerated liquid; or hydrogen chloride, refrigerated liquid.* Such tank must be filled to allow at least two percent outage below the inlet of the pressure relief valve or pressure control valve under conditions of incipient opening, with the tank in a level attitude.


(d) If the loading of cargo tanks and portable tank containers with liquefied gases is to be determined by weight, the gross weight shall be checked after the filling line is disconnected in each instance. The gross weight shall be calculated from the tank capacity and tare weight set forth on the metal plate required by the specification, and the maximum filling density permitted for the material being loaded into the tank as set forth in the table, paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) If the loading of cargo tanks and portable tank containers with liquefied gases is to be determined by adjustable liquid level device, each tank and each compartment thereof shall have a thermometer well, so that the internal liquid temperature can easily be determined, and the amount of liquid in the tank shall be corrected to a 60 °F. basis. Liquid levels shall not exceed a level corresponding to the maximum filling density permitted for the material being loaded into the tank as set forth in the table in paragraph (a) of this section.


(f) When the loading of cargo tanks and portable tank containers with liquefied gases is determined only by fixed length dip tube or other fixed maximum liquid level indicator, the device shall be arranged to function at a level not to exceed the maximum permitted volume prescribed by the table, paragraph (a) of this section. Loading shall be stopped when the device functions.


(g) Containers, the liquid level of which has been determined by means of a fixed length dip tube gauging device, shall not be acceptable for stowage as cargo on vessels in commerce subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard. Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to prohibit the transportation on car floats or car ferries of motor vehicles laden with containers nor cargo tanks the liquid level of either of which has been determined by means of fixed length dip tube devices.


(h) Each cargo tank and portable tank, except a tank filled by weight, must be equipped with one or more of the gauging devices described in the following table which indicate accurately the maximum permitted liquid level (for purposes of the following table, a column entry with “do” indicates “same as above”). Additional gauging devices may be installed but may not be used as primary controls for filling of cargo tanks and portable tanks. Gauge glasses are not permitted on any cargo tank or portable tank. Primary gauging devices used on cargo tanks of less than 3500 gallons water capacity are exempt from the longitudinal location requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section provided: The tank length does not exceed three times the tank diameter; and the cargo tank is unloaded within 24 hours after each filling of the tank.




(1) The design pressure of the liquid level gauging devices shall be at least equal to the design pressure of the tank.


(2) If the primary gauging device is adjustable, it must be capable of adjustment so that the end of the tube will be in the location specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section for at least one of the ladings to be transported, at the filling level corresponding to an average loading temperature. Exterior means must be provided to indicate this adjustment. The gauging device must be legibly and permanently marked in increments not exceeding 20 Fahrenheit degrees (or not exceeding 25 p.s.i.g. on tanks for carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid), to indicate the maximum levels to which the tank may be filled with liquid at temperatures above 20 °F. However, if it is not practicable to so mark the gauging device, this information must be legibly and permanently marked on a plate affixed to the tank adjacent to the gauging device.


(3) A dip tube gauging device consists of a pipe or tube with a valve at its outer end with its intake limited by an orifice not larger than 0.060 inch in diameter. If a fixed length dip tube is used, the intake must be located midway of the tank both longitudinally and laterally and at maximum permitted filling level. In tanks for liquefied petroleum gases, the intake must be located at the level reached by the lading when the tank is loaded to maximum filling density at 40 °F.


(4) Except on a tank used exclusively for the transportation of carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid, each opening for a pressure gauge must be restricted at or inside the tank by an orifice no larger than 0.060 inch in diameter. For carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid service, the pressure gauge need only be used during the filling operation.


(i) Each tank must be provided with one or more pressure relief devices which, unless otherwise specified in this part, must be of the spring-loaded type. Each valve must be arranged to discharge upward and unobstructed to the outside of the protective housing to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the tank. For each chlorine tank the protective housing must be in compliance with the requirements set forth in the applicable specification.


(1) The safety relief valves on each tank must meet the following conditions:


(i) The total relieving capacity, as determined by the flow formulas contained in Section 5 of CGA S-1.2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), must be sufficient to prevent a maximum pressure in the tank of more than 120 percent of the design pressure;


(ii) The flow capacity rating, testing and marking must be in accordance with Sections 5, 6 and 7 of CGA Pamphlet S-1.2.


(iii) For an insulated tank, the required relieving capacity of the relief devices must be the same as for an uninsulated tank, unless the insulation will remain in place and will be effective under fire conditions. In this case, except for UN portable tanks, each insulated tank must be covered by a sheet metal jacket of not less than 16 gauge thickness. For UN portable tanks where the relieving capacity of the valves has been reduced on the basis of the insulation system, the insulation system must remain effective at all temperatures less than 649 °C (1200.2 °F) and be jacketed with a material having a melting point of 700 °C (1292.0 °F) or greater.


(iv) An MC 330 cargo tank that has relief valves sized by Fetterly's formula dated November 27, 1928, may be continued in service. 


(2) Each safety relief valve must be arranged to minimize the possibility of tampering. If the pressure setting or adjustment is external to the valve, the safety relief valve must be provided with means for sealing the adjustment and it must be sealed.


(3) Each safety relief valve on a portable tank, other than a UN portable tank, must be set to start-to-discharge at pressure no higher than 110% of the tank design pressure and no lower than the design pressure specified in paragraph (a) of this section for the gas transported. For UN portable tanks used for liquefied compressed gases and constructed in accordance with the requirements of § 178.276 of this subchapter, the pressure relief device(s) must conform to § 178.276(e) of this subchapter.


(4) Except for UN portable tanks, each safety relief valve must be plainly and permanently marked with the pressure in p.s.i.g. at which it is set to discharge, with the actual rate of discharge of the device in cubic feet per minute of the gas or of air at 60 °F (15.6 °C) and 14.7 p.s.i.a., and with the manufacturer's name or trade name and catalog number. The start-to-discharge valve marking must be visible after the valve is installed. The rated discharge capacity of the device must be determined at a pressure of 120% of the design pressure of the tank. For UN portable tanks, each pressure relief device must be clearly and permanently marked as specified in § 178.274(f)(1) of this subchapter.


(5) Each safety relief valve must have direct communication with the vapor space in the tank.


(6) Each connection to a safety relief valve must be of sufficient size to provide the required rate of discharge through the safety relief valve.


(7) [Reserved]


(8) Each pressure relief valve outlet must be provided with a protective device to prevent the entrance and accumulation of dirt and water. This device must not impede flow through the valve. Pressure relief devices must be designed to prevent the entry of foreign matter, the leakage of liquid and the development of any dangerous excess pressure.


(9) On tanks for carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid each safety relief device must be installed and located so that the cooling effect of the contents will not prevent the effective operation of the device. In addition to the required safety relief valves, these tanks may be equipped with one or more pressure controlling devices.


(10) Each tank for carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid also may be equipped with one or more non-reclosing pressure relief devices set to function at a pressure not over two times nor less than 1.5 times the design pressure of the tank.


(11) Each portion of connected liquid piping or hose that can be closed at both ends must be provided with a safety relief valve without an intervening shut-off valve to prevent excessive hydrostatic pressure that could burst the piping or hose.


(12) Subject to conditions of paragraph (a) of this section for the methyl chloride and sulfur dioxide optional portable tanks, one or more fusible plugs examined by the Bureau of Explosives and approved by the Associate Administrator may be used on these tanks in place of safety relief valves of the spring-loaded type. The fusible plug or plugs must be in accordance with CGA Pamphlet S-1.2, to prevent a pressure rise in the tank of more than 120 percent of the design pressure. If the tank is over 30 inches long, each end must have the total specified safety discharge area.


(13) A safety relief valve on a chlorine cargo tank must conform to one of the following standards of The Chlorine Institute, Inc.: Type 1 
1/2 JQ225, Dwg. H51970 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter); or Type 1 
1/2 JQ225, Dwg. H50155 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(j) *Consumer storage containers.* (1) Storage containers for liquefied petroleum gas or propane charged to five percent of their capacity or less and intended for permanent installation on consumer premises may be shipped by private motor carrier under the following conditions:


(i) Each container must be constructed in compliance with the requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) and must be marked to indicate compliance in the manner specified by the respective Code. Containers built in compliance with earlier editions starting with 1943 are authorized.


(ii) Each container must be equipped with safety devices in compliance with the requirements for safety devices on containers as specified in NFPA 58, Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(iii) The containers must be braced or otherwise secured on the vehicle to prevent relative motion while in transit. Valves or other fittings must be adequately protected against damage during transportation. (See § 177.834(a) of this subchapter).


(iv) Storage containers of less than 1,042 pounds water capacity (125 gallons) may be shipped when charged with liquefied petroleum gas in compliance with DOT filling density.


(2) Storage containers with a water capacity not exceeding 500 gallons charged with liquefied petroleum gas to more than five percent of their capacity and intended for permanent installation on consumer premises may be transported by private motor carrier one-way only from the consumer's premises to the container owner's nearest facility under the following conditions:


(i) Each container must be constructed in compliance with the requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code and must be marked to indicate compliance in the manner specified by the respective Code.


(ii) Maximum permitted filling density may not exceed that specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(iii) Prior to loading on a motor vehicle, the container must be inspected by a trained and qualified person for leaks, corroded or abraded areas, dents, distortions, weld defects, or other condition that may render the container unsafe for transportation. A record of the inspection must be legibly signed and dated by the person performing the inspection and retained by the container owner for two years. The signature on the inspection record represents a certification that the container has been inspected and has no defects that would render it unsafe for transportation under the HMR. The record of inspection must include the date of inspection, the inspector's contact information (such as a telephone number), the container's serial number and container size (water capacity), estimated amount of hazardous material, and the origin and destination of shipment.


(iv) Only one storage container may be transported on a motor vehicle.


(v) For loading on a motor vehicle, the container must be lifted by slings, which must be completely wrapped around the container. Lifting lugs may not be used. The slings must be rated to a weight sufficient to accommodate the container and its lading and shall comply with ASME B30.9 on slings used for lifting purposes, and must be visually inspected prior to each use. A sling showing evidence of tears, fraying, or other signs of excessive wear may not be used.


(vi) The storage container must be secured on a motor vehicle so that the container is completely within the envelope of the vehicle and does not extend beyond the vehicle frame.


(vii) The storage container must be placed on the vehicle in a manner, such as in a cradle, which ensures that no weight is placed on the supporting legs during transportation.


(viii) The storage container must be secured against shifting during transportation. Bracing must conform with the requirements of paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section and § 177.834(a) of this subchapter and with Section 6-5.2 of NFPA 58, Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code. Straps or chains used as tie-downs must be rated to exceed the maximum load to be transported and conform to the requirements in §§ 393.100 through 393.106 of this title.


(ix) Tow trailers used to transport storage containers in accordance with this paragraph (j)(2) must provide rear end protection that conforms to requirements in § 393.86 of this title.


(k) A nonspecification cargo tank meeting, and marked in conformance with, the edition of Section VIII of the ASME Code in effect when it was fabricated may be used for the transportation of liquefied petroleum gas provided it meets all of the following conditions:


(1) It must have a minimum design pressure no lower than 250 psig.


(2) It must have a capacity of 13,247.5 L (3,500 water gallons) or less.


(3) It must have been manufactured in conformance with Section VIII of the ASME Code prior to January 1, 1981, according to its ASME name plate and manufacturer's data report.


(4) It must conform to the applicable provisions of NFPA 58, except to the extent that provisions in NFPA 58 are inconsistent with requirements in parts 178 and 180 of this subchapter. 


(5) It must be inspected, tested, and equipped in accordance with subpart E of part 180 of this subchapter as specified for MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicles.


(6) Except as provided in this paragraph (k), it must be operated exclusively in intrastate commerce, including its operation by a motor carrier otherwise engaged in interstate commerce, in a state where its operation was permitted by law (not including the incorporation of this subchapter) prior to January 1, 1981. A cargo tank motor vehicle operating under authority of this section may cross state lines to travel to and from a qualified assembly, repair, maintenance, or requalification facility. The cargo tank need not be cleaned and purged, but it may not contain liquefied petroleum gas in excess of five percent of the water capacity of the cargo tank. If the vehicle engine is supplied fuel from the cargo tank, enough fuel in excess of five percent of the cargo tank's water capacity may be carried for the trip to or from the facility.


(7) It must have been used to transport liquefied petroleum gas prior to January 1, 1981.


(8) It must be operated in conformance with all other requirements of this subchapter.


(l) Anhydrous ammonia must not be offered for transportation or transported in specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks constructed of quenched and tempered (“QT”) steel except as provided in this paragraph.


(1) The ammonia must have a minimum water content of 0.2 percent by weight. Any addition of water must be made using steam condensate, deionized, or distilled water.


(2) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, each person offering for transportation or transporting anhydrous ammonia shall perform a periodic analysis for prescribed water content in the ammonia. The analysis must be performed:


(i) From a sample of the ammonia in storage taken at least once every 7 days, or each time ammonia is added to the storage tanks, whichever is less frequent; or


(ii) At the time the cargo tanks are loaded, then a sample of the ammonia taken from at least one loaded cargo tank out of each 10 loads, or from one cargo tank every 24 hours, whichever is less frequent; or


(iii) At the same frequency as described in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, from a sample taken from the loading line to the cargo tank.


(3) If water is added at the time of loading:


(i) The sample for analysis must be taken from a point in the loading line between the water injection equipment and the cargo tank; and


(ii) Positive provisions must be made to assure water injection equipment is operating.


(4) If water injection equipment becomes inoperative, suitable corrective maintenance must be performed after which a sample from the first loaded cargo tank must be analyzed for prescribed water content.


(5) The analysis method for water content must be as prescribed in CGA G-2.2, “Tentative Standard Method for Determining Minimum of 0.2 percent water in Anhydrous Ammonia,” (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(6) Records indicating the results of the analysis taken, as required by this paragraph, must be retained for 2 years and must be open to inspection by a representative of the Department.


(7) Each person receiving anhydrous ammonia containing 0.2 per cent water by weight may offer for transportation or transport that ammonia without performing the prescribed analysis for water content provided:


(i) The ammonia received was certified as containing 0.2 percent water as prescribed in §§ 172.203(h)(l)(i) and 177.817(a) of this subchapter; and


(ii) The amount of water in the ammonia has not been reduced by any means.


(m) *General.* (1) A cargo tank that is commonly known as a nurse tank and considered an implement of husbandry transporting anhydrous ammonia and operated by a private motor carrier exclusively for agricultural purposes is excepted from the specification requirements of part 178 of this subchapter if it:


(i) Has a minimum design pressure of 250 psig, meets the requirements of Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), and is marked with a valid ASME plate.


(ii) Is equipped with pressure relief valves meeting the requirements of CGA Standard S-1.2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter);


(iii) Is painted white or aluminum;


(iv) Has a capacity of 3,000 gallons or less;


(v) Is loaded to a filling density no greater than 56 percent;


(vi) Is securely mounted on a farm wagon or meets paragraph (m)(3) of this section; and


(vii) Is in conformance with the requirements of part 172 of this subchapter except that shipping papers are not required; and it need not be marked or placarded on one end if that end contains valves, fittings, regulators or gauges when those appurtenances prevent the markings and placard from being properly placed and visible.


(2) *Nurse tanks with missing or illegible ASME plates.* Nurse tanks with missing or illegible ASME plates may continue to be operated provided they conform to the following requirements:


(i) Each nurse tank must undergo an external visual inspection and testing in accordance with § 180.407(d) of this subchapter.


(ii) Each nurse tank must be thickness tested in accordance with § 180.407(i) of this subchapter. A nurse tank with a capacity of less than 1,500 gallons must have a minimum head thickness of 0.203 inch and a minimum shell thickness of 0.239 inch. A nurse tank with a capacity of 1,500 gallons or more must have a minimum thickness of 0.250 inch. Any nurse tank with a thickness test reading of less than that specified in this paragraph at any point must be removed from hazardous materials service.


(iii) Each nurse tank must be pressure tested in accordance with § 180.407(g) of this subchapter. The minimum test pressure is 375 psig. Pneumatic testing is not authorized.


(iv) Each nurse tank must be inspected and tested by a person meeting the requirements of § 180.409(d) of this subchapter. Furthermore, each nurse tank must have the tests performed at least once every five years after the completion of the initial tests.


(v) After each nurse tank has successfully passed the visual, thickness, and pressure tests, welded repairs on the tank are prohibited.


(vi) After the nurse tank has successfully passed the visual, thickness, and pressure tests, it must be marked in accordance with § 180.415(b), and permanently marked near the test and inspection markings with a unique owner's identification number in letters and numbers at least 
1/2 inch in height and width.


(vii) Each nurse tank owner must maintain a copy of the test inspection report prepared by the inspector. The test report must contain the results of the test and meet the requirements in § 180.417(b) and be made available to a DOT representative upon request.


(3) *Field truck mounted tanks.* A non-DOT specification cargo tank (nurse tank) securely mounted on a field truck is authorized under the following conditions:


(i) The tank is in conformance with all the requirements of paragraph (m)(1) of this section, except that the requirement in paragraph (m)(1)(vi) does not apply;


(ii) The tank is inspected and tested in accordance with subpart E of part 180 of this subchapter as specified for an MC 331 cargo tank;


(iii) The tank is restricted to rural roads in areas within 50 miles of the fertilizer distribution point where the nurse tank is loaded; and


(iv) For the purposes of this section, a field truck means a vehicle on which a nurse tank is mounted that is designed to withstand off-road driving on hilly terrain. Specifically, the vehicle must be outfitted with stiffer suspension (for example, additional springs or airbags) than would be necessary for a comparable on-road vehicle, a rear axle ratio that provides greater low end torque, and a braking system and tires designed to ensure stability in hilly terrain. The field truck must have low annual over-the-road mileage and be used exclusively for agricultural purposes.


(n) *Emergency discharge control for cargo tank motor vehicles in liquefied compressed gas service*—(1) *Required emergency discharge control equipment.* Each cargo tank motor vehicle in liquefied compressed gas service must have an emergency discharge control capability as specified in the following table:


(2) *Cargo tank motor vehicles in other than metered delivery service.* A cargo tank motor vehicle in other than metered delivery service must have a means to automatically shut off the flow of product without the need for human intervention within 20 seconds of an unintentional release caused by a complete separation of a liquid delivery hose (passive shut-down capability).


(i) Designed flow of product through a bypass in the valve is acceptable when authorized by this subchapter.


(ii) The design for the means to automatically shut off product flow must be certified by a Design Certifying Engineer. The certification must consider any specifications of the original component manufacturer and must explain how the passive means to shut off the flow of product operates. It must also outline the parameters (e.g., temperature, pressure, types of product) within which the passive means to shut off the flow of product is designed to operate. All components of the discharge system that are integral to the design must be included in the certification. A copy of the design certification must be provided to the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle on which the equipment will be installed.


(iii) Installation must be performed under the supervision of a Registered Inspector unless the equipment is installed and removed as part of regular operation (e.g., a hose). The Registered Inspector must certify that the equipment is installed and tested, if it is possible to do so without damaging the equipment, in accordance with the Design Certifying Engineer's certification. The Registered Inspector must provide the certification to the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle.


(3) *Cargo tank motor vehicles in metered delivery service.* When required by the table in paragraph (n)(1) of this section, a cargo tank motor vehicle must have an off-truck remote means to close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment upon activation by a qualified person attending the unloading of the cargo tank motor vehicle (off-truck remote shut-off). It must function reliably at a distance of 45.72 m (150 feet). The off-truck remote shut-off activation device must not be capable of reopening the internal self-closing stop valve after emergency activation.


(i) The emergency discharge control equipment must be installed under the supervision of a Registered Inspector. Each wireless transmitter/receiver must be tested to demonstrate that it will close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment at a distance of 91.44 m (300 feet) under optimum conditions. Emergency discharge control equipment that does not employ a wireless transmitter/receiver must be tested to demonstrate its functioning at the maximum length of the delivery hose.


(ii) The Registered Inspector must certify that the remote control equipment is installed in accordance with the original component manufacturer's specifications and is tested in accordance with paragraph (n)(3)(i) of this section. The Registered Inspector must provide the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle with this certification.


(4) *Query systems.* When a transmitter/receiver system is used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (n)(1)(v) of this section, it must close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment unless the qualified person attending the unloading operation prevents it from doing so at least once every five minutes. Testing and certification must be as specified in paragraph (n)(3) of this section.


(5) *Compliance dates.* (i) Each specification MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicle with a certificate of construction issued two or more years after July 1, 1999, must have an appropriate emergency discharge control capability as specified in this paragraph (n).


(ii) No MC 330, MC 331, or nonspecification cargo tank motor vehicle authorized under paragraph (k) of this section may be operated unless it has an appropriate emergency discharge control capability as specified in this paragraph (n) no later than the date of its first scheduled pressure retest required after July 1, 2001. No MC 330, MC 331 or nonspecification cargo tank motor vehicle authorized under paragraph (k) of this section may be operated after July 1, 2006, unless it has been equipped with emergency discharge control equipment as specified in this paragraph (n).


(iii) No MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicle with a capacity over 13,247 L (3,500 gallons) used in metered delivery service may be operated unless it has an appropriate discharge control capability as specified in this paragraph (n) no later than July 1, 2003, or the date of its first scheduled pressure retest required after July 1, 2001, whichever is earlier. 


(o) *Chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles.* Each cargo tank motor vehicle used for the transportation of chlorine must meet the requirements in the following:


(1) Any hose, piping, or tubing used for loading or unloading that is mounted or carried on the motor vehicle may not be attached to any valve and must be capped at all ends to prevent the entry of moisture, except at the time of loading or unloading. Except at the time of loading and unloading, the pipe connection of each angle valve must be closed with a screw plug which is chained or otherwise fastened to prevent misplacement.


(2) Each chlorine cargo tank motor vehicle angle valve must be tested to be leak free at not less than 225 psig using dry air or inert gas before installation and thereafter every 2 years when performing the required periodic retest in § 180.407(c) of this subchapter. Prior to each loading, the cargo tank motor vehicle must be inspected and the angle valves and gasketed joints must be examined and tested at a pressure of not less than 50 psig to determine that they are not leaking and are in proper condition for transportation. Any leaks must be corrected before the cargo tank motor vehicle is offered for transportation.


(3) Excess flow valves on the cargo tank motor vehicle must meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section.


(p) *Fusible elements.* Each MC 330, MC 331, or nonspecification cargo tank authorized under paragraph (k) of this section must have a thermal means of closure for each internal self-closing stop valve as specified in § 178.337-8(a)(4) of this subchapter.


(q) Manifolding is authorized for cargo tanks containing anhydrous ammonia provided each individual cargo tank is equipped with a pressure relief device or valves and gauging devices as required by paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section. Each valve must be tightly closed while the cargo tank is in transit. Each cargo tank must be filled separately.



---

[N] [29 FR 18743, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967]


