# § 75.1732   Proximity detection systems.

Operators must install proximity detection systems on certain mobile machines.


(a) *Machines covered.* Operators must equip continuous mining machines, except full-face continuous mining machines, with proximity detection systems by the following dates. For proximity detection systems with miner-wearable components, the mine operator must provide a miner-wearable component to be worn by each miner on the working section by the following dates.


(1) Continuous mining machines manufactured after March 16, 2015 must meet the requirements in this section no later than November 16, 2015. These machines must meet the requirements in this section when placed in service with a proximity detection system.


(2) Continuous mining machines manufactured and equipped with a proximity detection system on or before March 16, 2015 must meet the requirements in this section no later than September 16, 2016.


(3) Continuous mining machines manufactured and not equipped with a proximity detection system on or before March 16, 2015 must meet the requirements in this section no later than March 16, 2018. These machines must meet the requirements in this section when placed in service with a proximity detection system.


(b) *Requirements for a proximity detection system.* A proximity detection system includes machine-mounted components and miner-wearable components. The system must:


(1) Cause a machine, which is tramming from place-to-place or repositioning, to stop before contacting a miner except for a miner who is in the on-board operator's compartment;


(2) Provide an audible and visual warning signal on the miner-wearable component and a visual warning signal on the machine that alert miners before the system causes a machine to stop. These warning signals must be distinguishable from other signals;


(3) Provide a visual signal on the machine that indicates the machine-mounted components are functioning properly;


(4) Prevent movement of the machine if any machine-mounted component of the system is not functioning properly. However, a system with any machine-mounted component that is not functioning properly may allow machine movement if it provides an audible or visual warning signal, distinguishable from other signals, during movement. Such movement is permitted only for purposes of relocating the machine from an unsafe location for repair;


(5) Be installed to prevent interference that adversely affects performance of any electrical system; and


(6) Be installed and maintained in proper operating condition by a person trained in the installation and maintenance of the system.


(c) *Proximity detection system checks.* Operators must:


(1) Designate a person who must perform a check of machine-mounted components of the proximity detection system to verify that components are intact, that the system is functioning properly, and take action to correct defects—


(i) At the beginning of each shift when the machine is to be used; or


(ii) Immediately prior to the time the machine is to be operated if not in use at the beginning of a shift; or


(iii) Within 1 hour of a shift change if the shift change occurs without an interruption in production.


(2) Check for proper operation of miner-wearable components at the beginning of each shift that the components are to be used and correct defects before the components are used.


(d) *Certifications and records.* The operator must make and retain certifications and records as follows:


(1) At the completion of the check of machine-mounted components required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a certified person under § 75.100 must certify by initials, date, and time that the check was conducted. Defects found as a result of the check, including corrective actions and dates of corrective actions, must be recorded before the end of the shift;


(2) Make a record of the defects found as a result of the check of miner-wearable components required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including corrective actions and dates of corrective actions;


(3) Make a record of the persons trained in the installation and maintenance of proximity detection systems required under paragraph (b)(6) of this section;


(4) Maintain records in a secure book or electronically in a secure computer system not susceptible to alteration; and


(5) Retain records for at least one year and make them available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and representatives of miners.



---

[N] [80 FR 2202, Jan. 15, 2015]




