# § 38.630   Burial headstones and markers; medallions.

(a) *Eligibility*—(1) *Unmarked graves.* VA will furnish, when requested under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, a burial headstone or marker for the unmarked grave of the following individuals:


(i) Any individual buried in a national cemetery or in a military post cemetery. When more than one individual is buried in a single gravesite in a national cemetery, VA will, if feasible, include inscription information for all such individuals on a single headstone or marker, rather than furnishing a separate headstone or marker for each buried individual.


(ii) The following individuals eligible for burial in a national cemetery but who are buried elsewhere, where such graves may be located in any type of non-national cemetery (e.g., state, tribal, private, or local government such as town or city cemetery):


(A) Veterans as described in § 38.620(a).


(B) Members of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, or members of the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard, whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(b).


(C) Members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the Army, Navy, or Air Force, whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(c).


(D) Individuals who separated from military service and were entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10 (10 U.S.C. 12731 *et seq.*), as described in and subject to § 38.620(g).


(E) Individuals who served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, or who served in the New Philippine Scouts, as described in and subject to § 38.620(h).


(F) Individuals who were naturalized pursuant to section 2(1) of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000, or who served honorably with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces, as described in and subject to § 38.620(j).


(iii) Soldiers of the Union and Confederate Armies of the Civil War, whose graves may be located in any type of non-national cemetery (e.g., state, tribal, private, or local government cemetery).


(iv) Spouses, surviving spouses, and dependent children, as described in and subject to § 38.620(e) or § 38.620(k), whose graves are located in a veterans' cemetery owned by a State, or a veterans' cemetery owned by a Tribal Organization or on land owned by or held in trust for a Tribal Organization.


(2) *Marked graves.* (i) Subject to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, VA will furnish, when requested under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a burial headstone or marker for the graves of the following individuals who are buried in a non-national cemetery (e.g., state, tribal, private, or local government cemetery), notwithstanding that such graves are already marked by a privately purchased headstone or marker.


(A) Veterans as described in § 38.620(a).


(B) Members of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, or members of the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard, whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(b).


(C) Members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the Army, Navy, or Air Force whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(c).


(D) Individuals who separated from military service and were entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10 (10 U.S.C. 12731 *et seq.*), as described in and subject to § 38.620(g).


(E) Individuals who served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, or who served in the New Philippine Scouts, as described in and subject to § 38.620(h).


(F) Individuals who were naturalized pursuant to section 2(1) of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000, or who served honorably with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces, as described in and subject to § 38.620(j).


(ii) An individual described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is eligible for a headstone or marker provided under this paragraph (a)(2) if:


(A) The individual died on or after November 1, 1990; or


(B) They were a Medal of Honor recipient and served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917.


(iii) In lieu of a headstone or marker provided under this paragraph (a)(2), veterans described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section are eligible for a medallion to be affixed to their privately purchased headstone or marker if they served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917.


(b) *General*—(1) *Application.* (i) When burial occurs in a cemetery that uses the National Cemetery Administration (NCA) electronic ordering system (e.g., national cemetery, State veterans' cemetery, or military post cemetery), the headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section will be ordered by the applicable cemetery as part of the process of arranging burial.


(ii) When burial occurs in a cemetery that does not use NCA's electronic ordering system (e.g., private or local government cemetery), an applicant, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may either:


(A) Request a burial headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section by completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330, Claim for Standard Government Headstone or Marker; or


(B) Request a medallion provided under paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section to be affixed to a privately purchased headstone or marker, by completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330M, Claim for Government Medallion for Placement in a Private Cemetery.


(iii) VA Forms 40-1330 and 40-1330M include application and submission instructions as well as additional information related to emblems of belief, and are accessible through the following links: *https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-1330.pdf,* and *https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-1330M.pdf.*

(A) An applicant for a burial headstone or marker for an unmarked grave provided under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for placement in a private cemetery or a local government cemetery, must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that such headstone or marker will be placed on or at the grave for which it is requested.


(B) An applicant for a burial headstone or marker for a marked grave provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, for placement in a private cemetery or a local government cemetery, must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that such headstone or marker will be placed on the grave for which it is requested, or if such placement is not possible or practicable, as close as possible to the grave within the grounds of the cemetery in which the grave is located.


(C) A representative of a private cemetery or local government cemetery that accepts delivery of a burial headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that placement of the headstone or marker adheres to the policies or guidelines of the cemetery in which the grave is located.


(2) *Styles, types, and inscriptions.* The styles and types of burial headstones and markers provided under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, as well as the inscriptions thereon to include an emblem of belief, will be provided in accordance with VA policy as well as in a manner consistent with 38 U.S.C. 2306(c) and 2404(c).


(i) The styles and types of burial headstones and markers made available for selection, as well as the inscriptions thereon, may be limited in accordance with certain requirements, including but not limited to aesthetic or administrative requirements of the cemetery in which the headstone or marker will be placed.


(ii) The same styles and types of headstones and markers made available for selection by requestors of headstones and markers provided for unmarked graves under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be made available for requestors of headstones or markers for marked graves provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(iii) Upon request under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, a headstone, marker, or medallion provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall signify the deceased's status as a Medal of Honor recipient as applicable.


(iv) If an emblem of belief is requested that is not offered in VA's inventory of images for emblems of belief, additional requirements apply under § 38.632.


(3) *Replacement.* (i) Upon request, VA will replace a Government-furnished burial headstone, marker, or medallion, if the previously furnished headstone, marker, or medallion:


(A) Is damaged beyond repair; or


(B) Has deteriorated to the extent it no longer serves to identify the buried decedent (e.g., identifying elements of an inscription are not legible, such as a decedent's name or a grave number for an unknown decedent), or, in the case of a medallion, no longer serves to identify the buried decedent as a veteran or as a Medal of Honor recipient if applicable; or


(C) Has been stolen or vandalized; or


(D) Is the incorrect style or type for the veteran's era of service; or


(E) Requires changing or adding inscription information for the following reasons:


(*1*) To correct errors in factual information (such as name or date of birth or death) provided to VA as part of the initial application process; or


(*2*) To indicate information related to the deceased's military service that is provided to VA after the initial application process (such as the deceased's posthumous receipt of military awards); or


(*3*) To identify on a single headstone or marker multiple decedents who are each eligible for a headstone or marker and who are buried in the same gravesite in a cemetery, to include identification of a spouse or dependent in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(g)(1); or


(*4*) To indicate the deceased's status as a Medal of Honor recipient if applicable, for a headstone or marker provided for a marked grave under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(d)(5)(B).


(*5*) For any reason not listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(E)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section, if the request to change or add inscription information is received from the decedent's next of kin as indicated in NCA's records systems, within six months of the initial headstone or marker being provided.


(ii) To the extent practicable, replacement burial headstones, markers, and medallions will be of the same style and type (to include inscription information) as those headstones, markers, or medallions being replaced, except that style, type, or inscription information may differ for replacements if one of the criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(D) or (E) is the reason for replacement.


(iii) Requests to replace Government-furnished burial headstones, markers, or medallions are made as follows:


(A) Through NCA's electronic ordering systems, when the headstone, marker, or medallion to be replaced is located in a cemetery that uses NCA electronic ordering systems; or


(B) By completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330 or VA Form 40-1330M, when the headstone, marker, or medallion to be replaced is located in a cemetery that does not use NCA's electronic ordering systems.


(4) *Limitations.* (i) VA will not pay costs associated with installing a burial headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for placement in a non-national cemetery, but VA will deliver such headstone or marker directly to the non-national cemetery where the grave is located or to a receiving agent for delivery to the cemetery.


(ii) VA will not pay costs associated with affixing a medallion provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to a privately purchased headstone or marker in a non-national cemetery, but VA will deliver such medallion directly to the applicant.


(5) *Ownership, alteration, and disposition.* (i) All Government-furnished headstones, markers, and medallions remain the property of the United States Government in perpetuity and should not be defaced or altered in any way. Knowingly converting Government property to private use (such as using whole or partial headstones or markers in structures or landscaping or offering such items for sale) is a violation of Federal law under 18 U.S.C. 641.


(ii) Under 38 CFR 1.218(b)(5), the destruction, mutilation, defacement, injury, or removal of any monument, gravestone, or other structure within the limits of any national cemetery is prohibited, with an associated fine of $500. Under 18 U.S.C. 1361, willful depredation of any property of the United States (*i.e.,* a headstone or marker in a non-national cemetery) shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment under title 18 of the United States Code.


(iii) When a Government-furnished burial headstone, marker, or medallion is removed from any cemetery, it should be properly disposed. Unless a headstone or marker that has been removed from a cemetery would be maintained by NCA for historic purposes, or in cases of disinterment would be relocated to a different gravesite, such headstones or markers made of stone must be physically broken into small enough pieces to ensure no portion of the inscription is legible and to ensure no part is available for any private, personal, or commercial use, and those made of bronze must be returned to VA for recycling.


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *Applicant.* An applicant for a burial headstone or marker for an eligible deceased individual, or an applicant for a medallion to be affixed to a privately purchased headstone or marker, may be:


(i) A decedent's family member, which includes the decedent's spouse or individual who was in a legal union as defined in 38 CFR 3.1702(b)(1)(ii) with the decedent; a child, parent, or sibling of the decedent, whether biological, adopted, or step relation; and any lineal or collateral descendant of the decedent;


(ii) A personal representative, as defined in § 38.600(a);


(iii) A representative of a congressionally chartered Veterans Service Organization;


(iv) An individual employed by the relevant state or local government whose official responsibilities include serving veterans and families of veterans, such as a state or county veterans service officer;


(v) Any individual who is responsible, under the laws of the relevant state or locality, for the disposition of the unclaimed remains of the decedent or for other matters relating to the interment or memorialization of the decedent; or


(vi) Any individual, if the dates of service of the veteran to be memorialized, or on whose service the eligibility of another individual for memorialization is based, ended prior to April 6, 1917.


(2) *Ascertainable.* Ascertainable means inscribed on the headstone or marker or discoverable from some inscription on the headstone or marker that corresponds to information that is reasonably accessible by the public (e.g., a corresponding burial ledger at the cemetery, or publicly available burial information accessible on the internet).


(3) *Local government.* Local government means the administrative body of a geographic area that is not a state, such as a county, city, or town.


(4) *Medal of Honor recipient.* Medal of Honor recipient means an individual who is awarded the Medal of Honor under sec. 7271, 8291, or 9271 of title 10 or sec. 2732 of title 14 of the United States Code, or corresponding predecessor provisions.


(5) *Privately purchased and durable headstone or marker.* Privately purchased and durable headstone or marker means a headstone or marker that was not purchased or provided by the Government, and that is made of a material (such as but not limited to stone) that is lasting and not anticipated to unduly degrade under exposure to the environment in which it is placed.


(6) *Unmarked grave.* Unmarked grave means a grave in a cemetery where:


(i) A Government-furnished headstone or marker has not been erected or installed at or by the grave, or the condition of a Government-furnished headstone or marker erected or installed at or by the grave warrants replacement under paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and


(ii) A privately purchased and durable headstone or marker, from which the buried individual's name (if known) is ascertainable:


(A) Has not been erected or installed at or by the grave, or


(B) Is damaged beyond repair; or


(C) Has deteriorated to the extent it no longer serves to identify the buried decedent (e.g., identifying elements of an inscription are not legible); or


(D) Has been stolen or vandalized.



---

[N] [86 FR 43098, Aug. 6, 2021; 86 FR 47387, Aug. 25, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 51238, Aug. 3, 2023]






