# § 21.7670   Measurement of courses leading to a standard, undergraduate college degree.

Except as provided in § 21.7672, VA will measure a reservist's courses as stated in this section.


(a) *Fourteen semester hours are full time.* Unless 12 or 13 semester hours are full time as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, or unless paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section apply to measurement of the reservist's enrollment VA will measure a reservist's enrollment as follows:


(1) 14 or more semester hours or the equivalent are full-time training,


(2) 10 through 13 semester hours or the equivalent are three-quarter-time training;


(3) 7 through 9 semester hours or the equivalent are half-time training; and


(4) 1 through 6 semester hours or the equivalent are less than half-time training.


(b) *Thirteen semester hours are full time.* (1) VA will consider that 13 semester hours or the equivalent are full-time training when the educational institution certifies that all undergraduate students enrolled for 13 semester hours or the equivalent are


(i) Charged full-time tuition, or


(ii) Considered full-time for other administrative purposes.


(2) When 13 semester hours or the equivalent are full-time training—


(i) 10 through 12 semester hours or the equivalent are three-quarter-time training;


(ii) 7 through 9 semester hours or the equivalent are half-time training; and


(iii) 1 through 6 semester hours or the equivalent are less than half-time training.


(c) *Twelve semester hours are full time.* (1) VA will consider that 12 semester hours or the equivalent are full-time training when the educational institution certifies that all undergraduate students enrolled for 12 semester hours or the equivalent are—


(i) Charged full-time tuition, or


(ii) Considered full time for other administrative purposes.


(2) When 12 semester hours or the equivalent are full-time training—


(i) 9 through 11 semester hours or the equivalent are three-quarter-time training;


(ii) 6 through 8 semester hours or the equivalent are half-time training; and


(iii) 1 through 5 semester hours or the equivalent are less than half-time training.


(d) *Other requirements.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in administering benefits payable under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606, VA shall apply the provisions of § 21.4272.



---

[N] [53 FR 34740, Sept. 8, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9629, Mar. 7, 1991; 57 FR 57107, Dec. 3, 1992; 61 FR 29308, June 10, 1996; 62 FR 55762, Oct. 28, 1997]




