# § 600.610   Secretarial determination of BHP payment amount.

(a) *Proposed payment notice.* (1) Beginning in FY 2015, the Secretary will determine and publish in a _Federal Register_ document the BHP payment methodology for the next calendar year or, beginning in calendar year 2022, for multiple calendar years. Beginning in calendar year 2023—


(i) In years in which the Secretary does not publish a new BHP methodology, the Secretary will update the values of factors needed to calculate the Federal BHP payments via sub regulatory guidance, as appropriate.


(ii) In years that the Secretary publishes a revised payment methodology, the Secretary will publish a proposed BHP payment methodology upon receiving certification from the Chief Actuary of CMS.


(2) A State may be required to submit data in accordance with the published proposed payment document in order for the Secretary to determine the State's payment rate as described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Final payment notice.* (1) Beginning in calendar year 2023, in years that the Secretary publishes a revised payment methodology, the Secretary will determine and publish the final BHP payment methodology and BHP payment amounts in a _Federal Register_ document.


(2) *Calculation of payment rates.* State payment rates are determined by the Secretary using the final BHP payment methodology, data requested in the proposed payment notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, and, if needed, other applicable data as determined by the Secretary.


(c) *State specific aggregate BHP payment amounts*—(1) *Prospective aggregate payment amount.* The Secretary will determine, on a quarterly basis, the prospective aggregate BHP payment amount by multiplying the payment rates described in paragraph (b) of this section by the projected number of enrollees. This calculation would be made for each category of enrollees based on enrollee characteristics and the other relevant factors considered when determining the payment methodology. The prospective aggregate BHP payment amount would be the sum of the payments determined for each category of enrollees for a State.


(2) *Retrospective adjustment to state specific aggregate payment amount for enrollment and errors.* (i) Sixty days after the end of each fiscal year quarter, the Secretary will calculate a retrospective adjustment to the previous quarter's specific aggregate payment amount by multiplying the payment rates described in paragraph (b) of this section by actual enrollment for the respective quarter. This calculation would be made for each category of enrollees based on enrollee characteristics and the other relevant factors considered when determining the payment methodology. The adjusted BHP payment amount would be the sum of the payments determined for each category of enrollees for a State.


(ii) Upon determination that a mathematical error occurred during the application or development of the BHP funding methodology, the Secretary will recalculate the state's BHP payment amount and make any necessary adjustments in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.


(iii) To the extent that the final payment notice described in paragraph (b) of this section permits retrospective adjustments to the state's BHP payment amount (due to the lack of necessary data for the Secretary to prospectively determine the relevant factors comprising the premium tax credit and cost-sharing reductions components of the BHP funding methodology), the Secretary will recalculate the state's BHP payment amount and make any necessary adjustments in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.


(iv) Any difference in the adjusted payment and the prospective aggregate payment amount will result in either:


(A) A deposit of the difference amount into the State's BHP trust fund; or


(B) A reduction in the upcoming quarter's prospective aggregate payment as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by the difference amount.



---

[N] [79 FR 14140, Mar. 12, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 77742, Dec. 20, 2022]




