# § 725.8   Coverage of this part.

(a) *Microorganisms subject to this part.* Only microorganisms which are manufactured, imported, or processed for commercial purposes, as defined in § 725.3, are subject to the requirements of this part.


(b) *Microorganisms automatically included on the Inventory.* Microorganisms that are not intergeneric are automatically included on the Inventory. 


(c) *Microorganisms not subject to this part.* The following microorganisms are not subject to this part, either because they are not subject to jurisdiction under the Act or are not subject to reporting under section 5 of the Act.


(1) Any microorganism which would be excluded from the definition of “chemical substance” in section 3 of the Act and § 720.3 of this chapter.


(2) Any microbial mixture as defined in § 725.3. This exclusion applies only to a microbial mixture as a whole and not to any microorganisms and other chemical substances which are part of the microbial mixture.


(3) Any microorganism that is manufactured and processed solely for export if the following conditions are met:


(i) The microorganism is labeled in accordance with section 12(a)(1)(B) of the Act, when the microorganism is distributed in commerce.


(ii) The manufacturer and processor can document at the commencement of manufacturing or processing that the person to whom the microorganism will be distributed intends to export it or process it solely for export as defined in § 721.3 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 102799, Dec. 18, 2024]




