# 22.1504   Violations and remedies.

(a) *Violations.* The Government may impose remedies set forth in paragraph (b) of this section for the following violations (note that the violations in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section go beyond violations of the requirements relating to certification of end products) (see 22.1503): 


(1) The contractor has submitted a false certification regarding knowledge of the use of forced or indentured child labor. 


(2) The contractor has failed to cooperate as required in accordance with the clause at 52.222-19, Child Labor Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies, with an investigation of the use of forced or indentured child labor by an Inspector General, the Attorney General, or the Secretary of the Treasury. 


(3) The contractor uses forced or indentured child labor in its mining, production, or manufacturing processes.


(4) The contractor has furnished an end product or component mined, produced, or manufactured, wholly or in part, by forced or indentured child labor. Remedies in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section are inappropriate unless the contractor knew of the violation. 


(b) *Remedies.* (1) The contracting officer may terminate the contract. 


(2) The suspending and debarring official may suspend the contractor in accordance with the procedures in subpart 9.4. 


(3) The suspending and debarring official may debar the contractor for a period not to exceed 3 years in accordance with the procedures in subpart 9.4. 





---

[N] [66 FR 5347, Jan. 18, 2001, as amended at 90 FR 516, Jan. 3, 2025]






