# § 28.62   Bond, Form 5100.30.

(a) *Requirement for bond.* If a person other than the proprietor of the bonded premises withdraws distilled spirits or wine without payment of tax, as authorized by § 28.91(a)(1), (2), (3), (5), or § 28.121(a), (b), (c), or (d), the exporter shall file a continuing bond, TTB Form 5100.30, as provided in § 28.51.


(b) *Penal sum of bond.* The penal sum of the bond shall be sufficient to cover the tax on the maximum quantity of distilled spirits and wine that may remain unaccounted for at any one time. However, the maximum penal sum of the bond shall not exceed $200,000, but in no case shall the penal sum be less than $1,000. Distilled spirits and wine withdrawn for exportation, use on vessels or aircraft, transfer to a customs bonded warehouse, or transfer to and deposit in a foreign-trade zone, shall remain unaccounted for until the evidence of exportation, use, deposit, transfer, or loss in transit has been filed with the appropriate TTB officer.


(c) *Apportioning bonds.* If the bond, Form 5100.30, is in less than the maximum penal sum, the principal shall apportion the bond, in accordance with the requirements on the bond form. The exporter may reapportion the bond coverage, if changing conditions make this necessary, by filing a consent of surety, TTB Form 5000.18, in accordance with its instructions.


(d) *Withdrawal of wine for transfer to a customs bonded warehouse; consent of surety.* An exporter with a bond on Form 5100.30 executed before April 1, 1981, shall obtain a consent of surety on Form 5000.18 before withdrawing wine without payment of tax from a bonded wine cellar for transfer to a customs bonded warehouse. The consent shall be executed in accordance with § 28.54 and filed in accordance with instructions on the form. Exporters with bonds executed on or after April 1, 1981, do not need this consent of surety, because such bonds automatically apply to withdrawals for transfer to customs bonded warehouses.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-88, 46 FR 39815, Aug. 5, 1991, as amended by T.D. ATF-413, 64 FR 46845, Aug. 27, 1999; T.D. TTB-8, 69 FR 3832, Jan. 27, 2004; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1134, Jan. 4, 2017]




