# ยง 14.23   Evidence and information to be submitted.

(a) *Death.* In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:


(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of decedent.


(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including his or her monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his or her last employment or occupation.


(3) Full names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent for support upon the decedent at the time of death.


(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent upon him or her for support at the time of death.


(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.


(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for these expenses.


(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.


(8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the amount of damages claimed.


(b) *Personal injury.* In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:


(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability and prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by the NRC or another Federal agency. The claimant may request in writing a copy of the report of the examining physician if the claimant has:


(i) Furnished the report referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section on request; and


(ii) Made or agrees to make available to the NRC all other reports of the claimant's physical or mental condition which have been or are made by any physician.


(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for these expenses.


(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for the treatment.


(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full- or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.


(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.


(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.


(c) *Property damage.* In support of a claim for damage to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:


(1) Proof of ownership of the property interest which is the subject of the claim.


(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.


(3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of these repairs.


(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, and salvage value, where repair is not economical.


(5) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed.




