# § 2004.24   What can I do if I am dissatisfied with USTR's response to my Privacy Act request?

(a) *What can I appeal?* You can appeal any adverse determination in writing to our Privacy Act Appeals Committee within thirty calendar days after the date of our response. We provide a list of adverse determinations in § 2004.23(c).


(b) *How do I make an appeal?*—(1) *What should I include?* You may appeal by submitting a written statement giving the reasons why you believe the Committee should overturn the adverse determination. Your written appeal may include as much or as little related information as you wish to provide, as long as it clearly identifies the determination (including the request number, if known) that you are appealing.


(2) *Where do I send my appeal?* You should mark both your letter and the envelope, or the subject of your email, “Privacy Act Appeal”. To avoid mail delivery delays caused by heightened security, we strongly suggest that you email any appeal to *PRIVACY@ustr.eop.gov*. Our mailing address is: Privacy Office, Office of the US Trade Representative, Anacostia Naval Annex, Building 410/Door 123, 250 Murray Lane SW., Washington, DC 20509.


(c) *Who will decide your appeal?* (1) The Privacy Act Appeals Committee or designee will act on all appeals under this section.


(2) We ordinarily will not adjudicate an appeal if the request becomes a matter of litigation.


(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the Privacy Act Appeals Committee must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.


(d) *When will we respond to your appeal?* The Privacy Act Appeals Committee will notify you of its appeal decision in writing within thirty days from the date it receives an appeal that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. We may extend the response time in unusual circumstances, such as the need to consult with another agency about a record or to retrieve a record shipped offsite for storage.


(e) *What will our response include?* The written response will include the Committee's determination whether to grant or deny your appeal in whole or in part, a brief explanation of the reasons for the determination, and information about the Privacy Act provisions for court review of the determination.


(1) *Appeals concerning access to records*. If your appeal concerns a request for access to records and the appeal is granted in whole or in part, we will make the records, if any, available to you.


(2) *Appeals concerning amendments or corrections*. If your appeal concerns amendment or correction of a record, the response will describe any amendment or correction made and advise you of your right to obtain a copy of the amended or corrected record. We will notify all persons, organizations or Federal agencies to which we previously disclosed the record, if an accounting of that disclosure was made, that the record has been amended or corrected. Whenever the record is subsequently disclosed, the record will be disclosed as amended or corrected. If our response denies your request for an amendment or correction to a record, we will advise you of your right to file a statement of disagreement under paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) *Statements of disagreement*—(1) *What is a statement of disagreement?* A statement of disagreement is a concise written statement in which you clearly identify each part of any record that you dispute and explain your reason(s) for disagreeing with our denial in whole or in part of your appeal requesting amendment or correction.


(2) *How do I file a statement of disagreement?* We must receive your statement of disagreement within thirty calendar days of our denial in whole or in part of your appeal concerning amendment or correction of a record.


(3) *What will we do with your statement of disagreement?* We will place your statement of disagreement in the system(s) of records in which the disputed record is maintained. We also may append a concise statement of our reason(s) for denying the request to amend or correct the record. Whenever the record is subsequently disclosed, the record will be disclosed along with your statement of disagreement and our explanation, if any.


(g) *When appeal is required*. Before seeking review by a court of an adverse determination or denial of a request, you generally first must submit a timely administrative appeal under this section.




