# ยง 367.1   Authority, purpose, scope and application.

(a) *Authority.* This part is adopted pursuant to section 12(f) (4) and (5) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1822(f) (4) and (5), and the rule-making authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) found at 12 U.S.C. 1819. Other regulations implementing these statutory directives appear at 12 CFR part 366. 


(b) *Purpose.* This part is designed to inform contractors and subcontractors (including their affiliated business entities, key employees and management officials) regarding their rights to notice and an opportunity to be heard on FDIC actions involving suspension and exclusion from contracting and rescission of existing contracts. This part is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other statute or regulation that may apply to such contractual activities. 


(c) *Scope.* This part applies to: 


(1) Contractors, other than attorneys or law firms providing legal services, submitting offers to provide services or entering into contracts to provide services to the FDIC acting in any capacity; and 


(2) Subcontractors entering into contracts to perform services under a proposed or existing contract with the FDIC. 


(d) *Application.* (1) This part will apply to entities that become contractors, as defined in ยง 367.2(f), on or after December 30, 1996. In addition, this part will apply to contractors as defined in ยง 367.2(f) that are performing contracts on December 30, 1996. 


(2) This part will also apply to actions initiated on or after December 30, 1996 regardless of the date of the cause giving rise to the actions. 


(3) Contracts entered into by the former Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) that were transferred to the FDIC will be treated in the same manner as FDIC contracts under this part. 


(4) RTC actions taken under the RTC regulations on or before December 31, 1995, will be honored as if taken by the FDIC. A contractor subject to an RTC exclusion or suspension will be precluded thereby from participation in the FDIC's contracting program unless that exclusion or suspension is modified or terminated under the provisions of this part.




