# § 63.1565   What are my requirements for organic HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units?

(a) *What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?* You must: 


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, meet each emission limitation in Table 8 of this subpart that applies to you. If your catalytic cracking unit is subject to the NSPS for carbon monoxide (CO) in § 60.103 of this chapter or is subject to § 60.102a(b)(4) of this chapter, you must meet the emission limitations for NSPS units. If your catalytic cracking unit is not subject to the NSPS for CO, you can choose from the two options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section:


(i) You can elect to comply with the NSPS requirements (Option 1); or 


(ii) You can elect to comply with the CO emission limit (Option 2). 


(2) Comply with each site-specific operating limit in Table 9 of this subpart that applies to you. 


(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan. 


(4) The emission limitations and operating limits for organic HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units required in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply during periods of planned maintenance preapproved by the applicable permitting authority according to the requirements in § 63.1575(j). 


(5) On or before the date specified in § 63.1563(d), you must comply with one of the two options in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section during periods of startup, shutdown and hot standby:


(i) You can elect to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; or


(ii) You can elect to maintain the oxygen (O_2_) concentration in the exhaust gas from your catalyst regenerator at or above 1 volume percent (dry basis) or 1 volume percent (wet basis with no moisture correction).


(b) *How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?* You must: 


(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.1572 and Table 10 of this subpart. Except: 


(i) Whether or not your catalytic cracking unit is subject to the NSPS for CO in § 60.103 of this chapter, you don't have to install and operate a continuous emission monitoring system if you show that CO emissions from your vent average less than 50 parts per million (ppm), dry basis. You must get an exemption from your permitting authority, based on your written request. To show that the emissions average is less than 50 ppm (dry basis), you must continuously monitor CO emissions for 30 days using a CO continuous emission monitoring system that meets the requirements in § 63.1572. 


(ii) If your catalytic cracking unit isn't subject to the NSPS for CO, you don't have to install and operate a continuous emission monitoring system or a continuous parameter monitoring system if you vent emissions to a boiler (including a “CO boiler”) or process heater that has a design heat input capacity of at least 44 megawatts (MW). 


(iii) If your catalytic cracking unit isn't subject to the NSPS for CO, you don't have to install and operate a continuous emission monitoring system or a continuous parameter monitoring system if you vent emissions to a boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced into the flame zone. 


(2) Conduct each performance test for a catalytic cracking unit not subject to the NSPS for CO according to the requirements in § 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 11 of this subpart. 


(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 9 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 11 of this subpart. 


(4) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 12 of this subpart. 


(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.1574. 


(6) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.1574. 


(c) *How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?* You must: 


(1) Demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation in Tables 8 and 9 of this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Tables 13 and 14 of this subpart. 


(2) Demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by complying with the procedures in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan. 



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75275, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 45243, July 13, 2016; 83 FR 60723, Nov. 26, 2018]




