# § 25.1411   General.

(a) *Accessibility.* Required safety equipment to be used by the crew in an emergency must be readily accessible.


(b) *Stowage provisions.* Stowage provisions for required emergency equipment must be furnished and must—


(1) Be arranged so that the equipment is directly accessible and its location is obvious; and 


(2) Protect the safety equipment from inadvertent damage. 


(c) *Emergency exit descent device.* The stowage provisions for the emergency exit descent devices required by § 25.810(a) must be at each exit for which they are intended. 


(d) *Liferafts.* (1) The stowage provisions for the liferafts described in § 25.1415 must accommodate enough rafts for the maximum number of occupants for which certification for ditching is requested. 


(2) Liferafts must be stowed near exits through which the rafts can be launched during an unplanned ditching. 


(3) Rafts automatically or remotely released outside the airplane must be attached to the airplane by means of the static line prescribed in § 25.1415. 


(4) The stowage provisions for each portable liferaft must allow rapid detachment and removal of the raft for use at other than the intended exits. 


(e) *Long-range signaling device.* The stowage provisions for the long-range signaling device required by § 25.1415 must be near an exit available during an unplanned ditching. 


(f) *Life preserver stowage provisions.* The stowage provisions for life preservers described in § 25.1415 must accommodate one life preserver for each occupant for which certification for ditching is requested. Each life preserver must be within easy reach of each seated occupant. 


(g) *Life line stowage provisions.* If certification for ditching under § 25.801 is requested, there must be provisions to store life lines. These provisions must—


(1) Allow one life line to be attached to each side of the fuselage; and 


(2) Be arranged to allow the life lines to be used to enable the occupants to stay on the wing after ditching. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3972, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-53, 45 FR 41593, June 19, 1980; Amdt. 25-70, 54 FR 43925, Oct. 27, 1989; Amdt. 25-79, 58 FR 45229, Aug. 26, 1993; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62789, Oct. 27, 2004] 




