# § 165.707   Safety Zone; Hurricanes, Tropical Storms and Other Disasters in Florida Keys.

(a) *Regulated Areas.* All navigable waters, regulated facilities, and waterfront facilities within the Key West Captain of the Port (COTP) zone, Key West, Florida (as described in 33 CFR 3.35-40).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Authorized Law Enforcement Agencies* means Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies that have received specific authorization from or are operating in concert with the Coast Guard to conduct operations related to the safety, security and stability of the Key West COTP zone.


*Designated Representative* means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, State, and local officers designated by or assisting the COTP in the enforcement of the regulated areas.


*Port Condition WHISKEY* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 72 hours.


*Port Condition X-RAY* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 48 hours.


*Port Condition YANKEE* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 24 hours.


*Port Condition ZULU* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 12 hours.


*Regulated Facilities* means shoreside facilities regulated by the Coast Guard under the Ports and Waterways Safety Act,
6 Maritime Transportation and Security Act,
7 Clean Water Act,
8 and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
9 and regulations in 33 CFR parts 105, 154, 156, and 158.


*Waterfront Facilities* means any land structure or shore area immediately adjacent to the navigable waters of the Key West COTP zone.


(c) *Regulations*—(1) *Port Condition WHISKEY.* All vessels, regulated facilities, and waterfront facilities within the Key West COTP zone must exercise due diligence in preparation for potential storm impacts. All regulated facilities and waterfront facilities must begin removing all debris and securing potential flying hazards. Oceangoing vessels greater than 300 gross tons (GT) must make plans to depart no later than the setting of Port Condition Yankee unless authorized by the COTP. Oceangoing vessels greater than 300 GT intending to remain in port must contact the COTP prior to the setting port condition X-Ray.


(2) *Port Condition X-RAY.* All vessels, regulated facilities, and waterfront facilities within the Key West COTP zone must ensure that potential flying debris is removed or secured. Hazardous materials/pollution hazards must be secured in a safe manner and away from waterfront areas. Vessels greater than 300 GT without an approval to remain in port must depart prior to the setting of Port Condition YANKEE. Vessels with the COTP's permission to remain in port must implement their pre-approved mooring arrangement. Regulated facilities must prepare to terminate all cargo operations.


(3) *Port Condition YANKEE.* Affected ports are closed to inbound vessel traffic. All oceangoing vessels greater than 300 GT must have departed designated ports within the Key West COTP zone. Regulated facilities must terminate all cargo operations, not associated with storm preparations, unless specifically authorized by the COTP. All MTSA regulated facilities must continue to operate in accordance with their approved Facility Security Plans and comply with the requirements of the MTSA.


(4) *Port Condition ZULU.* The port is closed to all vessel traffic except as specifically authorized by the COTP. Regulated facilities must cease all cargo operations, including bunkering and lightering. Waivers may be granted except for when Cargo of Particular Hazard or Certain Dangerous Cargo are involved.


(5) *Emergency Restrictions for Other Disasters.* Any natural or other disasters that are anticipated to affect the Key West COTP zone will result in the prohibition of regulated facility operations and vessel traffic transiting or remaining in the affected port.


(6*) Safety Zones Notice.* Coast Guard Sector Key West will notify the maritime community, to the furthest extent practicable, of the periods during which the safety zone described in paragraph (a) will be subject to enforcement via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives.


(7) *Exception.* This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0135, 88 FR 76136, Nov. 6, 2023]








