# § 721.11416   Phosphorous acid, triisotridecyl ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphorous acid, triisotridecyl ester (PMN P-18-105, CAS No. 77745-66-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4) through (6), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50, or 1000 if spray applied. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate, and for § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the chemical substance for other than as PVC additive and coatings additive.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 45326, July 28, 2020]




