# § 1008.11   Request for notification of existence of records: Submission.

(a) *Submission of requests.* (1) Individuals desiring to determine under the Privacy Act whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them shall address inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer, The Presidio Trust, P.O. Box 29052, San Francisco, CA 94129-0052, unless the system notice describing the system prescribes or permits submission to some other official or officials.


(2) Individuals desiring to determine whether records pertaining to them are maintained in two or more systems shall make a separate inquiry concerning each system.


(b) *Form of request.* (1) An inquiry to determine whether a system of records contains records pertaining to an individual shall be in writing.


(2) To expedite processing, both the envelope containing a request and the face of the request should bear the legend “PRIVACY ACT INQUIRY.”


(3) The request shall state that the individual is seeking information concerning records pertaining to him or herself and shall supply such additional identifying information, if any, as is called for in the system notice describing the system.


(4) The request must include verification of the requester's identity, including the requester's full name, current address, and date and place of birth. The request must be signed by the requester, and the signature must be notarized or submitted under 28 U.S.C. 1746, which permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization.


(5) If the request is made on behalf of a minor or someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, the requester must establish:


(i) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at the requester's option, the Social Security number of the individual;


(ii) The requester's identity, as required in paragraph 4 above of this section;


(iii) That the requester is the parent or guardian of that individual, which the requester may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing the requester's parentage or by providing a court order establishing the requester's guardianship; and


(iv) That the requester is acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.


(6) Individuals who have reason to believe that information pertaining to them may be filed under a name other than the name they are currently using (*e.g.,* maiden name), shall include such information in the request.



---

[N] [83 FR 50835, Oct. 10, 2018]












