# § 63.11563   What are my monitoring requirements?

(a) You must maintain the operating parameters established under § 63.11562(a)(2), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (c)(2) as specified in Table 4 of this subpart.


(b) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must develop and make available for inspection by the delegated authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan for each monitoring system that addresses the following:


(1) Installation of the CPMS probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (*e.g.,* on or downstream of the last control device);


(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the probe or interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system; and


(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*e.g.,* calibrations).


(i) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address the following:


(A) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), (c)(7), and (c)(8);


(B) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and


(C) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).


(c) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.


(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.


(2) To determine the 3-hour average, you must:


(i) Have a minimum of four successive cycles of operation to have a valid hour of data.


(ii) Have valid data from at least three of four equally spaced data values for that hour from a CPMS that is not out-of-control according to your site-specific monitoring plan.


(iii) Determine the 3-hour average of all recorded readings for each operating day, except as stated in paragraph (g) of this section. You must have at least two of the three hourly averages for that period using only hourly average values that are based on valid data (*i.e.,* not from out-of-control periods).


(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.


(d) For each temperature monitoring device, you must meet the CPMS requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section and the following requirements:


(1) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.


(2) For a noncryogenic temperature range, use a temperature sensor with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 2.8 °C or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.


(3) If a chart recorder is used, the recorder sensitivity in the minor division must be at least 20 °F.


(4) Perform an accuracy check at least semiannually or following an operating parameter deviation:


(i) According to the procedures in the manufacturer's documentation; or


(ii) By comparing the sensor output to redundant sensor output; or


(iii) By comparing the sensor output to the output from a calibrated temperature measurement device; or


(iv) By comparing the sensor output to the output from a temperature simulator.


(5) Conduct accuracy checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.


(6) At least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform visual inspections of components if redundant sensors are not used.


(e) For each pressure measurement device, you must meet the CPMS requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section and the following requirements:


(1) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in, or as close as possible, to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure.


(2) Use a gauge with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 0.12 kiloPascals or a transducer with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 5 percent of the pressure range.


(3) Check pressure tap for blockage daily. Perform an accuracy check at least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation:


(i) According to the manufacturer's procedures; or


(ii) By comparing the sensor output to redundant sensor output.


(4) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.


(5) At least monthly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform a leak check of all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage.


(6) At least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform visible inspections on all components if redundant sensors are not used.


(f) For each electrostatic precipitator (ESP) used to control emissions, you must install and operate a CPMS that meets the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section to provide representative measurements of the voltage supplied to the ESP.


(g) If you are not using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must develop and make available for inspection by the delegated authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan. The plan must specify the process parameters established during the initial compliance assessment and how they are being monitored and maintained to demonstrate continuous compliance.


(h) If you would like to use parameters or means other than those specified in Table 4 of this subpart to demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of an alternative monitoring plan under § 63.8(f). The plan must specify how process parameters established during the initial compliance assessment will be monitored and maintained to demonstrate continuous compliance.


(i) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(j) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.


(k) You must operate and maintain the CPMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.



---

[N] [74 FR 63260, Dec. 2, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 12989, Mar. 18, 2010]




