# § 2556.365   May a VISTA appeal a grievance?

(a) A VISTA may appeal the Deputy Regional Administrator's response to the grievance under § 2556.360(b)(3) by submitting a written appeal to the appropriate Regional Administrator. To be eligible to appeal a grievance response to the Regional Administrator, the VISTA must first have exhausted all appropriate actions as set forth in § 2556.360.


(b) A VISTA's grievance appeal must be in writing, contain sufficient detail to identify the subject matter of the grievance, specify the relief requested, and be signed by the VISTA.


(c) A VISTA must submit a grievance appeal to the appropriate Regional Administrator no later than 10 calendar days after the Deputy Regional Administrator issues their response to the grievance.


(d) Certain matters contained in a grievance appeal may be rejected, rather than denied on the merits, by the Regional Administrator. A grievance appeal may be rejected, in whole or in part, for any of the following reasons:


(1) The grievance appeal was not submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator within the time limit specified in paragraph (c) of this section;


(2) The grievance appeal consists of matters not contained within the definition of a grievance, as specified in section § 2556.350(a);


(3) The grievance appeal consists of matters excluded from the VISTA program grievance procedure, as specified in § 2556.350(b); or


(4) The grievance appeal contains matters that are moot, or for which relief has otherwise been granted.


(e) Within 14 calendar days of receipt of the grievance, the appropriate Regional Administrator will decide the grievance appeal on the merits, or reject the grievance appeal in whole or in part, or both, as appropriate. The Regional Administrator shall notify the VISTA in writing of the decision and specify the grounds for the appeal decision. The appeal decision will include a statement of the basis for the decision and is a final decision of AmeriCorps.




