# § 8.7   Payment of interest on delinquent assessments and examination and investigation fees.

(a) Each national bank, Federal savings association, Federal branch, and Federal agency shall pay to the OCC interest on its delinquent payments of semiannual assessments. In addition, each institution subject to a special examination or investigation fee shall pay to the OCC interest on its delinquent payments of special examination and investigation fees. Semiannual assessment payments will be considered delinquent if they are received after the time for payment specified in § 8.2. Special examination and investigation fees will be considered delinquent if not received by the OCC within 30 calendar days of the invoice date.


(b) In the event that an institution believes that the notice of assessments or special examination and investigation fees contains an error or miscalculation, the institution may provide the OCC with a written request for a revised notice and a refund of any overpayments. Any such request for a revised notice and refund must be made after timely payment of the semiannual assessment under the dates specified in § 8.2 or timely payment of the special examination and investigation fee within 30 calendar days of the invoice date.


(1) Within 30 calendar days of receipt of such request, the OCC shall either—


(i) Refund the amount of the overpayment; or


(ii) Provide notice of its unwillingness to accept the request for a revised notice of assessments. In the latter instance, the OCC and the entity claiming the overpayment shall thereafter attempt to reach agreement on the amount, if any, to be refunded; the OCC shall refund this amount within 30 calendar days of such agreement.


(2) The OCC shall be considered delinquent if it fails to return an overpayment in accordance with the time limitations specified in this paragraph (b). The OCC shall pay interest on any such delinquent payments.


(c) Interest on delinquent payments, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, will be assessed beginning the first calendar day on which payment is considered delinquent, and on each calendar day thereafter up to and including the day payment is received. Interest will be simple interest, calculated for each day payment is delinquent by multiplying the daily equivalent of the applicable interest rate by the amount delinquent. The rate of interest will be the United States Treasury Department's current value of funds rate (the “TFRM rate”); that rate is issued under the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual and is published quarterly in the _Federal Register._ The interest rates applicable to a delinquent payment will be determined as follows:


(1) For delinquent days occurring from January 1 to March 31, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published the preceding December for the first quarter of the ensuing year.


(2) For delinquent days occurring from April 1 to June 30, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published the preceding March for the second quarter of that year. 


(3) For delinquent days occurring from July 1 to September 30, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published the preceding June for the third quarter of that year.


(4) For delinquent days occurring from October 1 to December 31, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published the preceding September for the fourth quarter of that year.



---

[N] [48 FR 30599, July 1, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 49 FR 50605, Dec. 31, 1984; 70 FR 69643, Nov. 17, 2005; 76 FR 43568, July 21, 2011; 84 FR 43479, Aug. 21, 2019]




