# ยง 574.3   Definitions.

(a) *Statutory definitions.* All terms in this part that are defined in Section 30102 of Title 49, United States Code, are used as defined therein.


(b) *Motor vehicle safety standard definitions.* Unless otherwise indicated, all terms used in this part that are defined in the Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, part 571 of this subchapter (hereinafter the Standards), are used as defined therein.


(c)(1) *Independent* means, with respect to a tire distributor or dealer, one whose business is not owned or controlled by a tire manufacturer or brand name owner.


(2) *Mileage contract purchaser* means a person who purchases or leases tire use on a mileage basis.


(3) *New tire brand name owner* means a person, other than a new tire manufacturer, who owns or has the right to control the brand name of a new tire or a person who licenses another to purchase new tires from a new tire manufacturer bearing the licensor's brand name.


(4) *Retreaded tire brand name owner* means a person, other than a retreader, who owns or has the right to control the brand name of a retreaded tire or a person who licenses another to purchase retreaded tires from a retreader bearing the licensor's brand name.


(5) *Tire purchaser* means a person who buys or leases a new tire, or who buys or leases for 60 days or more a motor vehicle containing a new tire for purposes other than resale.



---

[N] [36 FR 1197, Jan. 26, 1971, as amended at 44 FR 7964, Feb. 8, 1979; 49 FR 38612, Oct. 1, 1984; 61 FR 29495, June 11, 1996]




