# ยง 297.102   Definitions.

In this part, the terms *agency, individual, maintain, record, statistical records,* and *systems of records* have the same meanings as defined in the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. In addition:


*Access* means providing a copy of a record to, or allowing review of the original record by, the data subject or the data subject's authorized representative, parent, or legal guardian;


*Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended;


*Agency* means any department or independent establishment in the Executive Branch of the Federal Government, including a Government corporation, of Government-controlled corporation, except those specifically excluded from the Office recordkeeping requirements by statute, this title, or formal agreement between the Office and the agency.


*Amendment* means the correction, addition, deletion, or destruction of a record or specific portions of a record;


*Data subject* means the individual to whom the information pertains and by whose name or other individual identifier the information is retrieved; 


*Disclosure* means providing personal review of a record, or a copy thereof, to someone other than the data subject or the data subject's authorized representative, parent, or legal guardian; 


*Document* means a piece of written or printed matter that provides information or evidence or that serves as official record.


*Mail* means artifacts used to assemble letters and packages that are sent or delivered by the United States Postal Service or other commercial letter or parcel delivery services.


*Office* means the U.S. Office of Personnel Management; 


*Personnel record* means any record concerning an individual which is maintained and used in the personnel management or personnel policy-making process; and 


*System manager* means the Office or agency official, designated by the head of the agency, who has the authority to decide Privacy Act matters relative to each system of records maintained by the Office.



---

[N] [53 FR 1998, Jan. 26, 1988, as amended at 89 FR 25750, Apr. 12, 2024]






