# § 48.6   What definitions apply to terms used in this part?

As used in this part, the following terms have the meanings given in this section.


*Beneficiary or beneficiaries* means “native Hawaiian(s)” as that term is defined under section 201(a) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.


*Chairman* means the Chairman of the Hawaiian Homes Commission designated under section 202 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.


*Commission* means the Hawaiian Homes Commission, established by section 202 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, which serves as the executive board of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.


*Consultation or consult* means representatives of the government engaging in an open discussion process that allows interested parties to address potential issues, changes, or actions. Consultation does not necessarily require formal face-to-face meetings. The complexity of the matter along with the potential effects that the matter may have on the Trust or beneficiaries will dictate the appropriate process for consultation. Consultation requires dialogue (oral, electronic, or printed) or a good faith, dialogue or documented effort to engage with the beneficiaries, consideration of their views, and, where feasible, seek agreement with the beneficiaries when engaged in the land exchange process.


*DHHL* or *Department of Hawaiian Home Lands* means the department established by the State of Hawai'i under sections 26-4 and 26-17 of the Hawai'i Revised Statutes to exercise the authorities and responsibilities of the Hawaiian Homes Commission under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.


*Hawaiian Home Lands Trust* means all trust lands given the status of Hawaiian home lands under section 204 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, and those lands obtained through approval under part 47, and as directed by Congress.


*Hawaiian Home Lands Trust Funds* means the funds established in the HHCA section 213.


*HHCA* or *Hawaiian Homes Commission Act* means the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, 42 Stat. 108 *et seq.,* as amended.


*HHCA Beneficiary Association* means an organization controlled by beneficiaries who submitted applications to the DHHL for homesteads and are awaiting the assignment of a homestead; represents and serves the interests of those beneficiaries; has as a stated primary purpose the representation of, and provision of services to, those beneficiaries; and filed with the Secretary a statement, signed by the governing body, of governing procedures and a description of the beneficiaries it represents.


*HHLRA* or *Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery Act* means the Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery Act, 1995, 109 Stat. 537.


*Lessee* means either a:


(1) Beneficiary who has been awarded a lease under section 207(a) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act;


(2) Person to whom land has been transferred under section 208(5) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act; or


(3) Successor lessee under section 209 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.


*Homestead Association* means a beneficiary controlled organization that represents and serves the interests of its homestead community; has as a stated primary purpose the representation of, and provision of services to, its homestead community; and filed with the Secretary a statement, signed by the governing body, of governing procedures and a description of the territory it represents.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or the individual to whom the authority and responsibilities of the Secretary have been delegated.


*Trust* means the Hawaiian Home Lands Trust and the Hawaiian Home Lands Trust Funds.




