# ยง 120.706   What are the terms and conditions of an SBA loan to an Intermediary?

(a) *Loan amount.* An Intermediary may not borrow more than $750,000 in the first year of participation in the program, or more than $3,000,000 in any subsequent year. An Intermediary's obligation to SBA may not exceed an aggregate of $7 million, subject to statutory limitations on the total amount of funds available per state.


(b) *Repayment terms.* During the first year of the loan, an Intermediary is not required to make any payments, but interest accrues from the date that SBA disburses the loan proceeds to the Intermediary. After that, SBA will determine the periodic payments. The loan must be repaid within 10 years. 


(c) *Interest rate.* The interest rate is equal to the rate applicable to five-year obligations of the United States Treasury, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth percent, less 1.25 percent. However, the interest rate for Specialized Intermediaries is equal to the rate applicable to five-year obligations of the United States Treasury, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth percent, less two percent. 


(d) *Collateral.* As security for repayment of the SBA loan, an Intermediary must pledge to SBA a first lien position in the MRF (described below), LLRF (described below), and all notes receivable from Microloans. 


(e) *Default.* If for any reason an Intermediary is unable to make payment to SBA when due, SBA may accelerate maturity of the loan and demand payment in full. In this event, or if an Intermediary violates this part or the terms of its loan agreement, it must surrender possession of all collateral described in paragraph (d) of this section to SBA. The Intermediary is not obligated to pay SBA any loss or deficiency which may remain after liquidation of the collateral unless the loss was caused by fraud, negligence, violation of any of the ethical requirements of ยง 120.140, or violation of any other provision of this part. 


(f) *Fees.* SBA does not charge Intermediaries any fees for loans under this Program. An Intermediary may, however, pay minimal closing costs to third parties, such as filing and recording fees. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47073, Sept. 11, 2001; 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022; 89 FR 35690, May 2, 2024]






