# § 32.64   Vermont.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Missisquoi National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, brant, merganser, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations, except hunters using more than two dogs must possess a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.


(ii) We require the use of dogs for hunting waterfowl in the Maquam Swamp, Long Marsh Channel/Metcalfe Island, and Saxes Pothole/Creek and Shad Island Pothole areas.


(iii) We prohibit blind staking and unattended decoys.


(iv) In the controlled waterfowl hunting areas:


(A) Hunters must possess a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439).


(B) Hunters may only hunt within 100 feet (30 meters) of a numbered stake placed by the refuge staff.


(v) In the Delta Lakeshore Area, we prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards (183 meters) of a party hunting from a boat or blind.


(vi) In the Maquam Shore Area:


(A) We do not require a refuge permit to hunt or scout in this area.


(B) We prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards (183 meters) of a party hunting from a boat or blind.


(vii) In the Saxes Pothole/Creek and Shad Island Pothole, each hunting party must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for the specific zone on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.


(viii) In the Junior Waterfowl Hunting Area:


(A) Each junior hunter must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for the assigned blind site and day. On Mentor Day, mentors must also possess and carry this permit for the assigned blind site. Each adult hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind site and day they are hunting. Permits are not transferable.


(B) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.


(C) We limit hunting to Saturdays, Sundays, and Wednesdays throughout the waterfowl hunting season for duck.




(ix) In the Long Marsh Channel and Metcalfe Island:


(A) We limit hunting to Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays throughout the waterfowl hunting season for duck.


(B) Each hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.


(C) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.


(D) We close this area to waterfowl hunting during split seasons when geese are the only waterfowl that hunters may legally take.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit, snowshoe hare, ruffed grouse, gray squirrel, coyote, red fox, gray fox, skunk, raccoon, weasel, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) Prior to hunting, you must obtain from refuge headquarters and sign a current refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure). You must possess the signed refuge hunt brochure at all times while hunting, and you must hold a valid State hunting license.


(iii) You may use only shotguns, muzzleloaders, or archery equipment on open areas east and north of Vermont Route 78, east of the Missisquoi River, and on Shad Island.


(iv) We prohibit hunting from the end of the State snowshoe hare and rabbit season (early March) until September 1.


(v) On the Eagle Point Unit, the conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, bear, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Prior to hunting, you must obtain from refuge headquarters and sign a current refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure). You must possess the signed refuge hunt brochure at all times while hunting, and you must hold a valid State hunting license.


(ii) You may use only shotguns, muzzleloaders, or archery equipment on open areas east and north of Vermont Route 78, east of the Missisquoi River. We prohibit rifles in these areas at any time.


(iii) You may use portable tree stands as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas with the following exception: We allow only one tree stand or ground blind for each permit holder.


(iv) On the Eagle Point Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:


(A) You may use portable tree stands as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas.


(B) We allow training of dogs during the regular hunting seasons as governed by State regulations. We allow dog training outside the regular hunting seasons (*i.e.,* from June 1 through July 31) only with a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow sport fishing (including bow fishing) by boat and ice fishing in designated areas with the following exceptions:


(A) We close the following areas year-round: Goose Bay, Saxes Creek and Pothole, Metcalfe Island Pothole, Long Marsh Channel, and Clark Marsh.


(B) We close the following areas from Labor Day to December 31: Long Marsh Bay and Long Marsh Channel.


(ii) We allow bank fishing along designated areas of Charcoal Creek.


(iii) We prohibit taking fish with firearms.


(iv) We prohibit boat launching on the refuge with the following exceptions: We allow launching from Louie's Landing year-round, and from Mac's Bend boat launch area from September through December (inclusive).


(v) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(b) *Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, crow, snipe, and American woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow disabled hunters to hunt from a vehicle that is at least 10 feet from the traveled portion of the refuge road if the hunter possesses a State-issued disabled hunting license and a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations, except dog training is only allowed from August 1 through the last Saturday in September during daylight hours. We prohibit dog training on the Putney Mountain Unit.


(iii) We prohibit shooting from, over, or within 25 feet of the traveled portion of any road that is accessible to motor vehicles.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, raccoon, bobcat, woodchuck, red squirrel, eastern gray squirrel, porcupine, skunk, snowshoe hare, eastern cottontail, muskrat, opossum, weasel, pheasant, and ruffed grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) At the Putney Mountain Unit, we allow the use of dogs only for hunting ruffed grouse, fall turkey, squirrel, and woodcock.


(iii) We require hunters hunting at night to possess a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, black bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) You may use portable tree stands and/or blinds. You must clearly label your tree stand(s) and/or blind(s) with your hunting license number. You must remove your tree stand(s) and/or blind(s) no later than 72 hours after the close of the season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) You may retrieve moose at the Nulhegan Basin Division with the use of a commercial moose hauler, if the hauler possesses a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-C) issued by the refuge manager.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge consistent with State regulations.











---

[N] [86 FR 48878, Aug. 31, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 57132, Sept. 16, 2022; 88 FR 74065, Oct. 30, 2023]










