# § 12.401   Appeal to the Commission.

(a) *How effected.* Any aggrieved party to a proceeding forwarded pursuant to § 12.26 (b) or (c) of these rules may appeal to the Commission an initial decision or other disposition of the entire proceeding by complying with the requirements of this section. An appealing party shall serve upon all parties and file with the Proceedings Clerk a notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days after service of the initial decision or other order disposing of the entire proceeding. The notice need consist only of a brief statement indicating the filing party's intent to appeal the initial decision, and shall include the date upon which the initial decision was rendered, the names of all parties, and the docket number of the proceeding. A non-refundable appellate filing fee in the amount of $50 shall be paid at the time of filing a notice of appeal. The failure of a party timely to file and serve a notice of appeal, and to pay the appellate filing fee, in accordance with this paragraph, or to perfect the appeal in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall constitute a voluntary waiver of any objection to the initial decision, or other order disposing of the proceeding, and of all further administrative or judicial review under these rules and the Commodity Exchange Act.


(b) *Perfecting the appeal; appeal brief.* An appeal shall be perfected by the appealing party by timely filing with the Proceedings Clerk an appeal brief which meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section. An original and one copy of the appeal brief shall be filed within thirty (30) days after filing of the notice of appeal. By motion of the appealing party, the Commission may, for good cause shown, extend the time for filing the appeal brief. If the appeal brief is not filed within the time prescribed in this subparagraph, the Commission may, upon its own motion or upon motion by a party, dismiss the appeal, in which event the initial decision shall become the final decision and order of the Commission, effective upon service of the order of dismissal.


(c) *Answering brief.* Any party upon whom the appealing party serves a brief may, within thirty (30) days after service of the appeal brief, file an original and one copy of an answering brief, and serve one copy thereof, unless the time limit is extended by the Commission upon motion of the party and for good cause shown.


(d) *Briefs.* Parties filing an appeal brief or answering brief pursuant to this section shall meet the requirements of § 12.11 of these rules as to form. The content of briefs shall satisfy the requirements of § 10.102(d) of the Commission's regulations, 17 CFR 10.102(d), except that any party, with leave of the Commission, may file an informal document in lieu of a brief. No brief shall exceed thirty-five (35) pages in length without leave of the Commission.


(e) *Oral argument.* Any party may request, in writing and within the time provided for filing the initial briefs, the opportunity to present oral argument before the Commission, which the Commission may, in its discretion, grant or deny. In the event the Commission affords the parties the opportunity to present oral argument before the Commission, the oral argument shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of § 10.103 of the Commission's regulations, 17 CFR 10.103.


(f) *Scope of review.* On review, the Commission may, in its discretion, consider *sua sponte* any issues arising from the record and may base its determination thereon, or limit the issues to those presented in the statement of issues in the briefs, treating those issues not raised as waived.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984; 49 FR 15070, Apr. 7, 1984]




