# ยง 264.273   Design and operating requirements.

The Regional Administrator will specify in the facility permit how the owner or operator will design, construct, operate, and maintain the land treatment unit in compliance with this section.


(a) The owner or operator must design, construct, operate, and maintain the unit to maximize the degradation, transformation, and immobilization of hazardous constituents in the treatment zone. The owner or operator must design, construct, operate, and maintain the unit in accord with all design and operating conditions that were used in the treatment demonstration under ยง 264.272. At a minimum, the Regional Administrator will specify the following in the facility permit:


(1) The rate and method of waste application to the treatment zone;


(2) Measures to control soil pH;


(3) Measures to enhance microbial or chemical reactions (*e.g.,* fertilization, tilling); and


(4) Measures to control the moisture content of the treatment zone.


(b) The owner or operator must design, construct, operate, and maintain the treatment zone to minimize run-off of hazardous constituents during the active life of the land treatment unit.


(c) The owner or operator must design, construct, operate, and maintain a run-on control system capable of preventing flow onto the treatment zone during peak discharge from at least a 25-year storm.


(d) The owner or operator must design, construct, operate, and maintain a run-off management system to collect and control at least the water volume resulting from a 24-hour, 25-year storm.


(e) Collection and holding facilities (*e.g.,* tanks or basins) associated with run-on and run-off control systems must be emptied or otherwise managed expeditiously after storms to maintain the design capacity of the system.


(f) If the treatment zone contains particulate matter which may be subject to wind dispersal, the owner or operator must manage the unit to control wind dispersal.


(g) The owner or operator must inspect the unit weekly and after storms to detect evidence of:


(1) Deterioration, malfunctions, or improper operation of run-on and run-off control systems; and


(2) Improper functioning of wind dispersal control measures.



---

[N] [47 FR 32361, July 26, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 4514, Jan. 31, 1985]




