# § 1.446-3T   Notional principal contracts (temporary).

(a) through (g)(3) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.446-3(a) through (g)(3).


(4) *Notional principal contracts with nonperiodic payments*—(i) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section, a notional principal contract with one or more nonperiodic payments is treated as two separate transactions consisting of an on-market, level payment swap and one or more loans. The loan(s) must be accounted for by the parties to the contract independently of the swap. The time value component associated with the loan(s) is not included in the net income or net deduction from the swap under § 1.446-3(d), but it is recognized as interest for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code. See paragraph (g)(6) *Example 2* of this section.


(ii) *Exceptions*—(A) *Notional principal contract with a term of one year or less*—(*1*) *General rule.* Except for purposes of sections 514 and 956, paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to a notional principal contract if the term of the contract is one year or less. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A), the term of a notional principal contract is the stated term of the contract, inclusive of any extensions (optional or otherwise) provided for in the terms of the contract, without regard to whether any extension is unilateral, is subject to approval by one or both parties to the contract, or is based on the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event.


(*2*) *Anti-abuse rule.* For purposes of determining the term of a contract under paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A)(*1*) of this section, the Commissioner may treat two or more contracts as a single contract if a principal purpose of entering into separate contracts is to qualify for the exception set forth in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A)(*1*) of this section. A purpose may be a principal purpose even though it is outweighed by other purposes (taken together or separately).


(B) *Notional principal contract subject to margin or collateral requirements.* Subject to the requirements in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(C) of this section, paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to a notional principal contract if the contract is described in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section. See § 1.956-2T(b)(1)(xi) for a related exception under section 956.


(*1*) The contract is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization (as such term is defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a)) or by a clearing agency (as such term in defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c)) that is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under the Commodity Exchange Act or as a clearing agency under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, respectively, and the derivatives clearing organization or clearing agency requires the parties to the contract to post and collect margin or collateral to fully collateralize the mark-to-market exposure on the contract (including the exposure on the nonperiodic payment) on a daily basis for the entire term of the contract. The mark-to-market exposure on a contract will be fully collateralized only if the contract is subject to both initial variation margin in an amount equal to the nonperiodic payment (except for variances permitted by intraday price changes) and daily variation margin in an amount equal to the daily change in the fair market value of the contract. See paragraph (g)(6) *Example 3* of this section.


(*2*) The parties to the contract are required, pursuant to the terms of the contract or the requirements of a federal regulator, to post and collect margin or collateral to fully collateralize the mark-to-market exposure on the contract (including the exposure on the nonperiodic payment) on a daily basis for the entire term of the contract. The mark-to-market exposure on a contract will be fully collateralized only if the contract is subject to both initial variation margin or collateral in an amount equal to the nonperiodic payment (except for variances permitted by intraday price changes) and daily variation margin or collateral in an amount equal to the daily change in the fair market value of the contract. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B)(*2*), the term “federal regulator” means the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), or a prudential regulator, as defined in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), as amended by section 721 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See paragraph (g)(6) *Example 4* of this section.


(C) *Limitations and special rules*—(*1*) *Cash requirement.* A notional principal contract is described in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section only to the extent the parties post and collect margin or collateral to fully collateralize the mark-to-market exposure on the contract (including the exposure on the nonperiodic payment) by paying and receiving the required margin or collateral in cash. The term “cash” includes U.S. dollars or cash in any currency in which payment obligations under the notional principal contract are denominated.


(*2*) *Excess margin or collateral.* For purposes of paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section, if the amount of cash margin or collateral posted and collected is in excess of the amount necessary to fully collateralize the mark-to-market exposure on the contract (including the exposure on the nonperiodic payment) on a daily basis for the entire term of the contract, any excess is subject to the rule in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.


(*3*) *Margin or collateral paid and received in cash and other property.* If the parties to the contract post and collect both cash and other property to satisfy margin or collateral requirements to collateralize the mark-to-market exposure on the contract (including the exposure on the nonperiodic payment), any excess of the nonperiodic payment over the cash margin or collateral posted and collected is subject to the rule in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.


(5) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.446-3(g)(5).


(6) *Examples* through *Example 1.* [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.446-3(g)(6), *Examples* through *Example 1.*

(h) through (j)(1) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.446-3(h) through (j)(1).


(2) *Application of § 1.446-3T(g)(4).* Paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section and paragraph (g)(6) *Example 2* of this section apply to notional principal contracts entered into on or after the later of January 1, 2017, or 180 days after the date of publication of the Treasury decision adopting these rules as final regulations in the _Federal Register._ Paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section applies to notional principal contracts entered into on or after May 8, 2015. However, before the later of January 1, 2017, or 180 days after the date of publication of the Treasury decision adopting paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section as final regulations in the _Federal Register,_ taxpayers may rely on the provision in § 1.446-3(g)(4), as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2015, which (except for purposes of section 956) limits the application of the embedded loan rule to nonperiodic payments that are significant, even if the requirements for the exceptions in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section are not met. Taxpayers may apply paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section, or both to notional principal contracts entered into before the dates set forth in this paragraph (j)(2).


(k) *Expiration date.* The applicability of paragraph (g)(4) of this section and paragraph (g)(6) *Examples 2, 3* and *4* of this section expires May 7, 2018.



---

[N] [T.D. 9719, 80 FR 26440, May 8, 2015, as amended by 80 FR 61308, Oct. 13, 2015]




