# ยง 164.012-13   Examinations, tests, and inspections.

(a) *Manufacturer's inspection and tests.* Manufacturers of listed and labeled Interior Finishes shall maintain quality control of the materials used, manufacturing methods and the finished product so as to meet the applicable requirements, and shall make sufficient inspections and tests of representative samples and components produced to maintain the quality of the finished product. Records of tests conducted by the manufacturer and records of materials, including affidavits by suppliers that applicable requirements are met, entering into manufacture shall be made available to the recognized laboratory inspector or the Coast Guard marine inspector, or both, for review upon request. 


(b) *Laboratory inspection and tests.* Such examinations, inspections and tests as are required by the recognized laboratory for listed and labeled material produced will be conducted by the laboratory inspector at the place of manufacture or other location at the option of the laboratory.


(c) *Test facilities.* The laboratory inspector, or the Coast Guard marine inspector assigned by the Commander of the District in which the factory is located, or both, shall be admitted to any place in the factory where work is being done on listed and labeled products, and either or both inspectors may take samples of parts or materials entering into construction of final assemblies, for further examinations, inspections, or tests. The manufacturer shall provide a suitable place and the apparatus necessary for the performance of the tests which are done at the place of manufacture.


(d) *Additional tests, etc.* Unannounced examinations, tests, and inspections of samples obtained either directly from the manufacturer or through commercial channels may be made to determine the suitability of a product for listing and labeling, or to determine conformance of a labeled product to the applicable requirements. These may be conducted by the recognized laboratory or the U.S. Coast Guard.



---

[N] [CGFR 70-143, 35 FR 19967, Dec. 30, 1970]




