# ยง 705.5   Assurance required.

(a) *General.* Every application for Federal financial assistance to carry out a program to which this part applies, and every application for Federal financial assistance to provide a facility shall, as a condition to its approval and the extension of any Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, contain or be accompanied by an assurance that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part. In the case of an application for Federal financial assistance to provide real property or structures thereon, or personal property or equipment of any kind, such assurance shall obligate the recipient, or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for any other purpose involving the provisions of similar services or benefits. In all other cases, such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended pursuant to the application. The responsible agency official shall specify the form of the foregoing assurances for each program, and the extent to which like assurances will be required of subgrantees, contractors, and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants in the program. Any such assurance shall include provisions which give the United States a right to seek its judicial enforcement. 


(b) *Planning grants to States.* Each designated State agency must submit the assurance specified in ยง 703.5(n) of these rules and regulations. 


(c) *River basin commissions.* Each river basin commission is required to submit, along with its annual budget request, written assurance of its continuing compliance with ยง 705.4 of this part. 




