# ยง 671.25   State safety oversight agency.

(a) *Review and approve RWP program elements.* The SSOA must review and approve the RWP manual and any subsequent updates for each RTA within its jurisdiction:


(1) The SSOA must coordinate with the RTA on the initial review and approval of the RWP program elements so that the RWP program is established and approved within one calendar year from December 2, 2024, and


(2) The SSOA also must submit all approved RWP program elements for each RTA in its jurisdiction, and any subsequent updates, to FTA within 30 calendar days of approving them.


(b) *RWP program oversight.* The SSOA must update its program standard to explain the role of the SSOA in overseeing an RTA's execution of its RWP program.


(c) *Annual RWP program audit.* (1) The SSOA must conduct an annual audit of the RTA's compliance with its RWP program, including all required RWP program elements, for each RTA that it oversees.


(2) The SSOA must issue a report with any findings and recommendations arising from the audit, which must include, at minimum:


(i) An analysis of the effectiveness of the RWP program, including, at a minimum, a review of:


(A) All RWP-related events over the period covered by the audit;


(B) All RWP-related reports made to the Transit Worker Safety Reporting Program over the period covered by the audit;


(C) All documentation of instances where a transit worker(s) challenged and refused in good faith any assignment based on on-track safety concerns and documentation of the resolution for any such instance during the period covered by the audit;


(D) An assessment of the adequacy of the track access guide, including whether the guide reflects current track geometry and conditions;


(E) A review of training and qualification records for transit workers who must enter a track zone to perform work;


(F) A representative sample of written job safety briefing confirmations as described in ยง 671.33; and


(G) The compliance monitoring program described in ยง 671.43.


(ii) Recommendations for improvements, if necessary or appropriate.


(iii) Corrective action plan(s), if necessary or appropriate, must be developed and executed consistent with requirements established in part 674.


(3) The RTA must be given an opportunity to comment on any findings and recommendations.




