# § 60.5386b   What test methods and procedures must I use for my centrifugal compressor and reciprocating compressor affected facilities?

(a) You must use one of the methods described in paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section to screen for emissions or leaks from the reciprocating compressor rod packing when complying with § 60.5385b(b)(1)(iii) and from applicable wet seal centrifugal compressor and dry seal centrifugal compressor vents when complying with § 60.5380b(a)(3) through (6).


(1) *OGI instrument.* Use an OGI instrument for equipment leak detection as specified in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, any visible emissions observed by the OGI instrument from reciprocating rod packing or compressor dry or wet seal vent is a leak.


(i) *OGI instrument as specified in appendix K of this part.* For reciprocating compressor, applicable wet seal centrifugal compressor, and dry seal centrifugal compressor affected facilities located at onshore natural gas processing plants, use an OGI instrument to screen for emissions from reciprocating rod packing or centrifugal compressor dry seal vent in accordance with the protocol specified in appendix K of this part.


(ii) *OGI instrument as specified in § 60.5397b of this subpart.* For reciprocating compressor, applicable wet seal centrifugal compressor, and dry seal centrifugal compressor affected facilities located at centralized production facilities, compressor stations, or other location that is not an onshore natural gas processing plant, use an OGI instrument to screen for emissions from reciprocating rod packing or compressor dry seals in accordance with the elements of § 60.5397b(c)(7).


(2) *Method 21.* Use Method 21 in appendix A-7 to this part according to § 60.5403b(b)(1) and (2). For the purposes of this section, an instrument reading of 500 parts per million by volume (ppmv) above background or greater is a leak.


(b) You must determine natural gas volumetric flow rate using a rate meter which meets the requirement in Method 2D in appendix A-1 of this part. Rate meters must be calibrated on an annual basis according to the requirements in Method 2D.


(c) You must use a high-volume sampler to measure emissions of the reciprocating compressor rod packing, applicable centrifugal compressor wet seal vent, or centrifugal compressor dry seal vent in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must use a high-volume sampler designed to capture the entirety of the emissions from the applicable vent and measure the entire range of methane concentrations being emitted as well as the total volumetric flow at standard conditions. You must develop a standard operating procedure for this device and document these procedures in the appropriate monitoring plan. In order to get reliable results, persons using this device should be knowledgeable in its operation and the requirements in this section.


(2) This procedure may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This procedure may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this procedure to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this procedure.


(3) The high-volume sampler must include a methane gas sensor(s) which meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The methane sensor(s) must be selective to methane with minimal interference, less than 2.5 percent for the sum of responses to other compounds in the gas matrix. You must document the minimal interference though empirical testing or through data provided by the manufacturer of the sensor.


(ii) The methane sensor(s) must have a measurement range over the entire expected range of concentrations.


(iii) The methane sensor(s) must be capable of taking a measurement once every second, and the data system must be capable of recording these results for each sensor at all times during operation of the sampler.


(4) The high-volume sampler must be designed such that it is capable of sampling sufficient volume in order to capture all emissions from the applicable vent. Your high-volume sampler must include a flow measurement sensor(s) which meets the requirements of paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The flow measurement sensor must have a measurement range over the entire expected range of flow rates sampled. If needed multiple sensors may be used to capture the entire range of expected flow rates.


(ii) The flow measurement sensor(s) must be capable of taking a measurement once every second, and the data system must be capable of recording these results for each sensor at all times during operation of the sampler.


(5) You must calibrate your methane sensor(s) according to the procedures in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, and flow measurement sensors must be calibrated according to the procedures in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.


(i) For Methane Sensor Calibration:


(A) Initially and on a semi-annual basis, determine the linearity at four points through the measurement range for each methane sensor using methane gaseous calibration cylinder standards. At each point, the difference between the cylinder value and the sensor reading must be less than 5 percent of the respective calibration gas value. If the sensor does not meet this requirement, perform corrective action on the sensor, and do not use the sampler until these criteria can be met.


(B) Prior to and at the end of each testing day, challenge each sensor at two points, a low point, and a mid-point, using methane gaseous calibration cylinder standards. At each point, the difference between the cylinder value and the sensor reading must be less than 5 percent of the respective calibration gas value. If the sensor does not meet this requirement, perform corrective action on the sensor and do not use the sampler again until these criteria can be met. If the post-test calibration check fails at either point, invalidate the data from all tests performed subsequent to the last passing calibration check.


(ii) Flow measurement sensors must meet the requirements in Method 2D in appendix A-1 of this part. Rate meters must be calibrated on an annual basis according to the requirements in Method 2D. If your flow sensor relies on ancillary temperature and pressure measurements to correct the flow rate to standard conditions, the temperature and pressure sensors must also be calibrated on an annual basis. Standard conditions are defined as 20 °C (68 °F) and 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).


(6) You must conduct sampling of the reciprocating compressor rod packing, applicable wet seal centrifugal compressor, or dry seal centrifugal compressor vent in accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The instrument must be operated consistent with manufacturer recommendations; users are encouraged to develop a standard operating procedure to document the exact procedures used for sampling.


(ii) Identify the rod packing, applicable wet seal centrifugal compressor, or dry seal centrifugal compressor vent to be measured and record the signal to noise ratio (S/N) of the engine. Collect a background methane sample in ppmv for a minimum of one minute and record the result along with the date and time.


(iii) Approach the vent with the sample hose and adjust the sampler so that you are measuring at the full flow rate. Then, adjust the flow rate to ensure the measured methane concentration is within the calibrated range of the methane sensor and minimum methane concentration is at least 2 ppmv higher than the background concentration. Sample for a period of at least one minute and record the average flow rate in standard cubic feet per minute and the methane sample concentration in ppmv, along with the date and time. Standard conditions are defined as 20 °C (68 °F) and 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).


(iv) Calculate the leak rate according to the following equation:


(v) You must collect at least three separate one-minute measurements and determine the average leak rate. The relative percent difference of these three separate samples should be less than 10 percent.


(7) If the measured natural gas flow determined as specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section exceeds 70.0 percent of the manufacturer's reported maximum sampling flow rate you must either use a temporary or permanent flow meter according to paragraph (b) of this section or use another method meeting the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section to determine the leak or flow rate.


(d) As an alternative to a high-volume sampler, you may use any other method that has been validated in accordance with the procedures specified in Method 301 in appendix A in 40 CFR part 63, subject to Administrator approval, as specified in § 60.8(b).



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62892, Aug. 1, 2024]




