# § 1700.4   Requirements for making requests.

(a) FOIA requests must be submitted in writing. They may be sent to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, IRRG Chief, Information Management Office, Washington, DC 20511; by email to *DNI-FOIA@dni.gov;* or through the FOIA portal at *https://www.foia.gov.* For the most expeditious handling, the request letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, should be marked “Freedom of Information Act Request.” The requester shall provide contact information, such as a phone number, email address, or mailing address.


(b) A requester who is making a request for records about themselves must comply with the verification of identity requirements provided in the ODNI Privacy Act regulations, 32 CFR 1701.7(d).


(c) Where a request for records pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that third party or a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by that third party. Such notarized authorization or declaration should authorize disclosure of the requested records to the requester. If the third party is deceased, the requester should submit proof of that fact (*e.g.,* a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). As an exercise of administrative discretion, ODNI can require a requester to supply additional information to verify that a third party has consented to disclosure.


(d) Requests must describe the records sought with sufficient detail to enable ODNI personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records that they are seeking, such as the date, title, name, author, recipient, or subject matter of the record. Before or after submitting their requests, requesters may contact the FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they are seeking and to receive assistance in describing the records. If ODNI determines that a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, ODNI shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the agency's response to the request may be delayed.


(e) A request should specify the preferred format (including electronic) to convey the records requested. ODNI will accommodate a request for a specific format if the record is readily available in that format. When the format of the response is not specified, ODNI will provide responsive records in the most convenient format.






