# § 80.145   Recordkeeping.

(a) *General requirements*—(1) *Records to be kept.* All parties subject to the requirements of this subpart must keep the following records:


(i) *Compliance report records.* Records related to compliance reports submitted to EPA under this part as follows:


(A) Copies of all reports submitted to EPA.


(B) Copies of any confirmation received from the submission of such reports to EPA.


(C) Copies of all underlying information and documentation used to prepare and submit the reports.


(D) Copies of all calculations required under this subpart.


(ii) *Registration records.* Records related to registration under this part and 40 CFR part 1090, subpart I, as follows:


(A) Copies of all registration information and documentation submitted to EPA.


(B) Copies of all underlying information and documentation used to prepare and submit the registration request.


(iii) *PTD records.* Copies of all PTDs required under this part.


(iv) *Subpart M records.* Any applicable record required under 40 CFR part 80, subpart M.


(v) *QAP records.* Information and documentation related to participation in any QAP program, including contracts between the entity and the QAP provider, records related to verification activities under the QAP, and copies of any QAP-related submissions.


(vi) *Sampling, testing, and measurement records.* Documents supporting the sampling, storage, testing, and measurement results relied upon under § 80.155, including all results, maintenance records, and calibration records.


(vii) *Other records.* Any other records relied upon by the party to demonstrate compliance with this subpart.


(viii) *Potentially invalid RINs.* Any records and copies of notifications related to potentially inaccurate or non-qualifying biogas volumes or potentially invalid RINs under § 80.185.


(ix) *RNG importers and foreign parties.* Any records related to RNG importers and foreign parties under §§ 80.160, 80.1466, and 80.1467, as applicable.


(2) *Length of time records must be kept.* The records required under this subpart must be kept for five years from the date they were created, except that records related to transactions involving RINs must be kept for five years from the date of the RIN transaction.


(3) *Make records available to EPA.* Any party required to keep records under this section must make records available to EPA upon request by EPA. For records that are electronically generated or maintained, the party must make available any equipment and software necessary to read the records or, upon approval by EPA, convert the electronic records to paper documents.


(4) *English language records.* Any record requested by EPA under this section must be submitted in English, or include an English translation.


(b) *Biogas producers.* In addition to the records required under paragraph (a) of this section, a biogas producer must keep all the following records:


(1) Copies of all contracts, PTDs, affidavits required under this part, and all other commercial documents with any RNG producer, biointermediate producer, or renewable fuel producer.


(2) Documents supporting the volume of biogas, in Btu HHV and scf, produced for each batch.


(3) Documents supporting the composition and cleanup of biogas produced for each batch (*e.g.,* meter readings of composition, records of adsorbent replacement, records showing equipment operation including maintenance and energy usage, and records of component streams separated from the biomethane-enriched stream).


(4) Information and documentation related to participation in any QAP program, including contracts between the biogas producer and the QAP provider, records related to verification activities under the QAP, and copies of any QAP-related submissions.


(5) Records related to measurement, including types of equipment used, metering process, maintenance and calibration records, documents supporting adjustments related to error correction, and measurement data.


(6) Documents supporting the use of each process heat source and supporting the amount of each source used in the production process for each batch.


(7) All the applicable recordkeeping requirements for digester feedstocks under § 80.1454.


(8) The following information and documents showing that the biogas came from renewable biomass:


(i) For all anaerobic digesters, documentation showing the mass of each feedstock type input into the digester for each batch of biogas.


(ii) For agricultural digesters, a quarterly affidavit signed by the RCO or their delegate that only animal manure, crop residue, or separated yard waste that had an adjusted cellulosic content of at least 75% were used to produce biogas during the quarter.


(iii) For municipal wastewater treatment facility digesters and separated MSW digesters, a quarterly affidavit signed by the RCO or their delegate that only feedstocks that had an adjusted cellulosic content of at least 75% were used to produce biogas during the quarter.


(iv) For biogas produced from separated yard waste, separated food waste, or biogenic waste oils/fats/greases, documents required under § 80.1454(j)(1).


(v) For biogas produced from separated MSW, documents required under § 80.1454(j)(2).


(9) For biogas produced in a mixed digester, all the following:


(i) Documents for each delivery of feedstock to the biogas production facility, demonstrating all the following for each unique combination of feedstock supplier and type of feedstock:


(A) The name of the feedstock supplier.


(B) The type of feedstock.


(C) The mass of that feedstock delivered from that supplier.


(ii) Data, documents, and calculations related to digester operating conditions required under § 80.105(f)(2)(iii)(D).


(iii) Documents for each batch showing how measurement data for volatile solids, total solids, and mass were used to calculate batch volume under § 80.105(j)(2).


(iv) Documents showing the amounts of additives (*e.g.,* water), timing of additive addition, and location of additive addition for all additives added to the feedstock.


(v) For samples tested for volatile solids and total solids, documents showing the time and location that each sample was obtained and tested.


(c) *RNG producers.* In addition to the records required under paragraph (a) of this section, an RNG producer must keep all the following records:


(1) Records related to the generation and assignment of RINs, including all the following information:


(i) Batch volume.


(ii) Batch number.


(iii) Production date when RINs were assigned to RNG.


(iv) Injection point into the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(v) Volume of biogas, in Btu HHV and scf, respectively, received at each RNG production facility.


(vi) Volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, Btu HHV, and scf, produced at each RNG production facility.


(vii) Pipeline injection statements describing the energy and volume of natural gas for each pipeline interconnect.


(2) Records related to each RIN transaction, separately for each transaction, including all the following information:


(i) A list of the RINs generated, owned, purchased, sold, separated, retired, or reinstated.


(ii) The parties involved in each transaction including the transferor, transferee, and any broker or agent.


(iii) The date of the transfer of the RINs.


(iv) Additional information related to details of the transaction and its terms.


(3) Documentation recording the transfer and sale of RNG, from the point of biogas production to the facility that sells or uses the fuel for transportation purposes.


(4) A copy of the RNG producer's Compliance Certification required under Title V of the Clean Air Act.


(5) Results of any laboratory analysis of chemical composition or physical properties.


(6) Documents supporting the composition of biogas and RNG and cleanup of biogas for each batch (*e.g.,* meter readings of composition, records of adsorbent replacement, records showing equipment operation including maintenance and energy usage, and records of component streams separated from the biomethane-enriched stream).


(7) Documents supporting the use of each process heat source and supporting the amount of each source used in the production process for each batch.


(8) Records related to measurement, including types of equipment used, metering process, maintenance and calibration records, documents supporting adjustments related to error correction, and measurement data.


(9) Information and documentation related to participation in any QAP program, including contracts between the RNG producer and the QAP provider, records related to verification activities under the QAP, and copies of any QAP-related submissions.


(10) For an RNG production facility that injects RNG at a pipeline interconnect that also has RNG injected from other sources, documents showing that RINs generated for the facility comply with the requirements specified in § 80.125(b)(7).


(11) Documentation of any waiver provided by the natural gas commercial pipeline system for any parameter of the RNG that does not meet the natural gas specifications submitted under § 80.135(d)(5).


(d) *Biogas closed distribution system RIN generators.* In addition to the records required under paragraph (a) of this section, a biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must keep all the following records:


(1) Documentation demonstrating that the renewable CNG/LNG was produced from renewable biomass and qualifies to generate RINs under an approved pathway.


(2) Copies of any written contract for the sale or use of renewable CNG/LNG as transportation fuel, and copies of any affidavit from a party that sold or used the renewable CNG/LNG as transportation fuel.


(e) *RNG RIN separators.* In addition to the records required under paragraph (a) of this section, an RNG RIN separator must keep all the following records:


(1) Documentation indicating the volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from each interconnect of the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(2) Documentation demonstrating the volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline system that was used to produce renewable CNG/LNG.


(3) Documentation indicating the volume of renewable CNG/LNG, in Btu LHV, dispensed as transportation fuel from each dispensing location.


(4) Copies of all documentation required under § 80.125(d)(2)(ii), as applicable.


(5) Documentation showing how the number of RINs separated was determined using the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section and the applicable RIN separation reports.


(f) *Renewable fuel producers that use biogas as a biointermediate or RNG as a feedstock.* In addition to the records required under paragraph (a) of this section, a renewable fuel producer that uses biogas as a biointermediate or RNG as a feedstock must keep all the following records:


(1) Documentation supporting the volume of renewable fuel produced from biogas used as a biointermediate or RNG that was used as a feedstock.


(2) For biogas, all the following additional information:


(i) For each facility, documentation supporting the volume of biogas, in Btu HHV and scf, that was used as a biointermediate.


(ii) Copies of all applicable contracts over the past 5 years with each biointermediate producer.


(3) For RNG, all the following additional information:


(i) Documentation supporting the volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(ii) Documentation supporting the retirement of RINs for RNG used as a feedstock (*e.g.,* contracts, purchase orders, invoices).






