# ยง 25.200   How is the Special Schedule applied for employees in the Republic of the Philippines?

(a) *Modified special schedule of compensation.* Except for injury or death of direct-hire employees of the U.S. Military Forces covered by the Philippine Medical Care Program and the Employees' Compensation Program pursuant to the agreement signed by the United States and the Republic of the Philippines on March 10, 1982 who are also members of the Philippine Social Security System, the special schedule of compensation established in subpart B of this part shall apply, with the modifications or additions specified in paragraphs (b) through (k) of this section, in the Republic of the Philippines, to injury or death occurring on or after July 1, 1968, with the following limitations:


(1) *Temporary disability.* Benefits for payments accruing on and after July 1, 1969, for injuries causing temporary disability and which occurred on and after July 1, 1968, shall be payable at the rates in the special schedule as modified in this section.


(2) *Permanent disability and death.* Benefits for injuries occurring on and after July 1, 1968, which cause permanent disability or death, shall be payable at the rates specified in the special schedule as modified in this section for all awards not paid in full before July 1, 1969, and any award paid in full prior to July 1, 1969: Provided, that application for adjustment is made, and the adjustment will result in additional benefits of at least $10. In the case of injuries or death occurring on or after December 8, 1941 and prior to July 1, 1968, the special schedule as modified in this section may be applied to prospective awards for permanent disability or death, provided that the monthly and aggregate maximum provisions in effect at the time of injury or death shall prevail. These maxima are $50 and $4,000, respectively.


(b) *Death benefits.* 400 weeks' compensation at two-thirds of the weekly wage rate, shared equally by the eligible survivors in the same class.


(c) *Death beneficiaries.* Benefits are payable to the survivors in the following order of priority (all beneficiaries in the highest applicable classes are entitled to share equally):


(1) Surviving spouse and unmarried children under 18, or over 18 and totally incapable of self-support.


(2) Dependent parents.


(3) Dependent grandparents.


(4) Dependent grandchildren, brothers and sisters who are unmarried and under 18, or over 18 and totally incapable of self-support.


(d) *Burial allowance.* 14 weeks' wages or $400, whichever is less, payable to the eligible survivor(s), regardless of the actual expense. If there is no eligible survivor, actual burial expenses may be paid or reimbursed, in an amount not to exceed what would be paid to an eligible survivor.


(e) *Permanent total disability.* 400 weeks' compensation at two-thirds of the weekly wage rate.


(f) *Permanent partial disability.* Where applicable, the compensation provided in ยง 25.100(c)(1) through (19) subject to an aggregate limitation of 400 weeks' compensation. In all other cases, provided for permanent total disability that proportion of the compensation (paragraph (e) of this section) which is equivalent to the degree or percentage of physical impairment caused by the disability.


(g) *Temporary partial disability.* Two-thirds of the weekly loss of wage-earning capacity.


(h) *Compensation period for temporary disability.* Compensation for temporary disability is payable for a maximum period of 80 weeks.


(i) *Maximum compensation.* The total aggregate compensation payable in any case, for injury or death or both, shall not exceed $8,000, exclusive of medical costs and burial allowance. The weekly rate of compensation for disability or death shall not exceed $35.


(j) *Method of payment.* Only compensation for temporary disability shall be payable periodically. Compensation for permanent disability and death shall be payable in full at the time the extent of entitlement is established.


(k) *Exceptions.* The Director in his or her discretion may make exceptions to the regulations in this section by:


(1) Reapportioning death benefits, for the sake of equity.


(2) Excluding from consideration potential death beneficiaries who are not available to receive payment.


(3) Paying compensation for permanent disability or death on a periodic basis, where this method of payment is considered to be in the best interest of the beneficiary.




