# § 5.901   Time limitations.

(a) Any person whose credential or endorsement has been revoked or surrendered for one or more of the offenses described in § 5.59 and § 5.61(a) may, three years after compliance with the Administrative Law Judge's decision and order or the date of voluntary surrender, apply for the issuance of a new credential or endorsement.


(b) The three year time period may be waived by the Commandant upon a showing by the individual that, since the occurrence upon which the revocation or surrender was based, the individual has demonstrated his good character in the community for a period exceeding three years.


(c) Any person whose credential or endorsement has been revoked or surrendered for one or more offenses which are not specifically described in §§ 5.59 or 5.61(a) may, after one year, apply for the issuance of a new credential or endorsement.


(d) For a person whose credential or endorsement has been revoked or surrendered for the wrongful simple possession or use of dangerous drugs, the three year time period may be waived by the Commandant upon a showing that the individual: 


(1) Has successfully completed a bona fide drug abuse rehabilitation program; 


(2) Has demonstrated complete non-association with dangerous drugs for a minimum of one year following completion of the rehabilitation program and; 


(3) Is actively participating in a bona fide drug abuse monitoring program. 


(e) For a person whose credential or endorsement has been revoked or surrendered for offenses related to alcohol abuse, the waiting period may be waived by the Commandant upon a showing that the individual has successfully completed a bona fide alcohol abuse rehabilitation program and is actively participating in a bona fide alcohol abuse monitoring program. 


(f) The waivers specified under subparagraphs (d) or (e) of this section may only be granted once to each person.



---

[N] [CGD 82-002, 50 FR 32184, Aug. 9, 1985, as amended by CGD 84-099, 52 FR 47535, Dec. 14, 1987; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11215, Mar. 16, 2009]




