# § 652.35   Liquidity management.

(a) *Liquidity policy—board responsibilities.* Farmer Mac's board of directors must adopt a liquidity policy, which may be integrated into a comprehensive asset-liability management or enterprise-wide risk management policy. The risk tolerance embodied in the liquidity policy must be consistent with the investment management policies required by § 652.10 of this subpart. The board must ensure that management uses adequate internal controls to ensure compliance with its liquidity policy. At least annually, the board of directors or a designated committee of the board must review the sufficiency of the liquidity policy. The board of directors must approve any changes to the policy. You must provide a copy of the revised liquidity policy to the OSMO within 10 business days of adoption.


(b) *Policy content.* Your liquidity policy must contain at a minimum the following:


(1) The purpose and objectives of liquidity reserves;


(2) Diversification requirements for your liquidity reserve portfolio;


(3) The minimum and target (or optimum) amounts of liquidity that the board has established for Farmer Mac, expressed in days of maturing obligations;


(4) The maximum amount of non-program investments that can be held for meeting Farmer Mac's liquidity needs, expressed as a percentage of program assets and program obligations;


(5) Exception parameters and approvals needed with respect to the liquidity reserve;


(6) Delegations of authority pertaining to the liquidity reserve;


(7) Reporting requirements which must comply with the requirements under paragraph (c) of this section;


(c) *Reporting requirements*—(1) *Board reporting*—(i) *Periodic.* At least quarterly, Farmer Mac's management must report to Farmer Mac's board of directors or a designated committee of the board describing, at a minimum, the status of Farmer Mac's compliance with board policy and the performance of the liquidity reserve portfolio.


(ii) *Special.* Management must report any deviation from Farmer Mac's liquidity policy, or failure to meet the board's liquidity targets to the board before the end of the quarter if such deviation or failure has the potential to cause material loss.


(2) *OSMO reporting.* Farmer Mac must report, in writing, to the OSMO no later than the next business day following the discovery of any breach of the minimum liquidity reserve requirement in § 652.40 of this subpart.


(d) *Liability maturity management plan.* Farmer Mac must have a liability maturity management plan (LMMP) that its board of directors reviews and approves at least once each year. The LMMP must establish a funding strategy that provides for effective diversification of the sources and tenors of funding, and considers Farmer Mac's risk profile and current market conditions. The LMMP must include targets of acceptable ranges of the proportion of debt maturing within specific time periods.


(e) *Contingency funding plan.* (1) *General.* Farmer Mac must have a CFP to ensure sources of liquidity are sufficient to fund normal operations under a variety of stress events. Such stress events include, but are not limited to market disruptions, rapid increase in contractually required loan purchases, unexpected requirements to fund commitments or revolving lines of credit or to fulfill guarantee obligations, difficulties in renewing or replacing funding with desired terms and structures, requirements to pledge collateral with counterparties, and reduced market access.


(2) *CFP requirements.* Farmer Mac must maintain an adequate level of unencumbered and marketable assets (as defined in § 652.40(a) and (b) of this subpart) in its liquidity reserve that can be converted into cash to meet its net liquidity needs for 30 days based on estimated cash inflows and outflows under an acute stress scenario. The board of directors must review and approve the CFP at least once each year and must make adjustments to reflect changes in the results of stress tests, Farmer Mac's risk profile, and market conditions.


(3) The CFP must:


(i) Be customized to the financial condition and liquidity risk profile of Farmer Mac, the board's liquidity risk tolerance, and Farmer Mac's business model;


(ii) Identify funding alternatives that can be implemented as access to funding is impeded;


(iii) Establish a process for managing events that imperil Farmer Mac's liquidity. The process must assign appropriate personnel and executable action plans to implement the CFP;


(iv) Require periodic stress testing that analyzes the possible impacts on Farmer Mac's cash flows, liquidity position, profitability, and solvency for a wide variety of stress scenarios.



---

[N] [78 FR 65553, Nov. 1, 2013; 79 FR 29074, May 21, 2014]




