# ยง 1109.4   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


(a) *Certifier* means a party that is either a finished product certifier or a component part certifier as defined in this section.


(b) *Component part* means any part of a consumer product, including a children's product that either must or may be tested separately from a finished consumer product to assess the consumer product's ability to comply with a specific rule, ban, standard, or regulation enforced by the CPSC. Within the same consumer product, the component parts to be tested and the tests to be conducted may vary, depending on the applicable regulations and required test methods, if any.


(c) *Component part certifier* means a party who, although not required to do so pursuant to part 1110 of this chapter, voluntarily certifies the following as complying with one or more rules, bans, standards, or regulations enforced by the CPSC, consistent with the content requirements for certifications in part 1110 of this chapter:


(1) Component parts to be used in consumer products; or


(2) Finished products.


(d) *CPSA* means the Consumer Product Safety Act.


(e) *CPSC* means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.


(f) *CPSIA* means the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008.


(g) *Due care* means the degree of care that a prudent and competent person engaged in the same line of business or endeavor would exercise under similar circumstances. Due care does not permit willful ignorance.


(h) *Finished product certifier* means a party responsible for certifying compliance of a finished consumer product pursuant to part 1110 of this chapter with all applicable rules, bans, standards, and regulations enforced by the CPSC.


(i) *Identical in all material respects* means there is no difference with respect to compliance to the applicable rules, bans, standards, or regulations, between the samples to be tested for compliance and the component part or finished product distributed in commerce.


(j) *Paint* means any type of surface coating that is subject to part 1303 of this chapter or section 4.3.5.2 of ASTM F 963-08 (or any successor standard of section 4.3.5.2 of ASTM F 963-08 accepted by the Commission).


(k) *Testing party* means a party (including, but not limited to, domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers, importers, private labelers, or component part suppliers) who procures tests (either by conducting the tests themselves, when this is allowed, or by arranging for another party to conduct the tests), of a consumer product, or any component part thereof, for compliance, in whole or in part, with any applicable rule, ban, standard, or regulation enforced by the CPSC. Testing laboratories and third party conformity assessment bodies are not testing parties under this definition.


(*l*) *Third party conformity assessment body* means a testing laboratory whose accreditation has been accepted by the CPSC to conduct certification testing on children's products. Only third party conformity assessment bodies whose scope of accreditation includes the applicable required tests can be used to test children's products for purposes of supporting certification pursuant to section 14(a) of the CPSA and testing to ensure continued compliance pursuant to section 14(i) of the CPSA.


(m) *Traceable* means the ability of a certifier to identify all testing parties of a component part of a consumer product or a finished product, including the name and address of each testing party and any party that conducted testing on the component part or finished product. Parties that conduct testing may include a manufacturer, a supplier, a testing laboratory, or a third party conformity assessment body. Traceability extends to the component part of the product that was tested for compliance, such that if a subassembly is tested, that subassembly must be traceable, not each component part of the subassembly, if those parts were not individually tested for other rules, bans, standards, or regulations.




