# § 14.1   Scope.

(a) This part governs the procedures when any of the following applies:


(1) The Commissioner concludes, as a matter of discretion, that it is in the public interest for a standing or ad hoc policy or technical public advisory committee (*advisory committee* or *committee*) to hold a public hearing and to review and make recommendations on any matter before FDA and for interested persons to present information and views at an oral public hearing before the advisory committee.


(2) Under specific provisions in the FD&C Act or other sections of this chapter, a matter is subject to a hearing before an advisory committee. The specific provisions are—


(i) Section 14.120 on review of a performance standard for an electronic product by the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC);


(ii) Section 14.140 on review of the safety of color additives;


(iii) Section 14.160 on review of the safety and effectiveness of human prescription drugs;


(iv) Section 330.10 on review of the safety and effectiveness of over-the-counter drugs;


(v) [Reserved]


(vi) Part 860, on classification of devices;


(vii) Section 514(b)(5) of the FD&C Act on establishment, amendment, or revocation of a device performance standard;


(viii) Section 515 of the FD&C Act on review of device premarket approval applications and product development protocols; and


(ix) Section 520(f) of the FD&C Act on review of device good manufacturing practice regulations.


(3) A person who has a right to an opportunity for a formal evidentiary public hearing under part 12 waives that opportunity and instead under § 12.32 requests a hearing before an advisory committee, and the Commissioner, as a matter of discretion, accepts the request.


(b) In determining whether a group is a *public advisory committee* as defined in § 10.3(a) and thus subject to this part and to the Federal advisory Committee Act, the following guidelines will be used:


(1) An advisory committee may be a standing advisory committee or an ad hoc advisory committee. All standing advisory committees are listed in § 14.100.


(2) An advisory committee may be a policy advisory committee or a technical advisory committee. A policy advisory committee advises on broad and general matters. A technical advisory committee advises on specific technical or scientific issues, which may relate to regulatory decisions before FDA.


(3) An advisory committee includes any of its subgroups when the subgroup is working on behalf of the committee. Section 14.40(d) describes when a subgroup will be established as an advisory committee separate from the parent committee.


(4) A committee composed entirely of full-time Federal Government employees is not an advisory committee.


(5) An advisory committee ordinarily has a fixed membership, a defined purpose of providing advice to the agency on a particular subject, regular or periodic meetings, and an organizational structure, for example, a Chairperson and staff, and serves as a source of independent expertise and advice rather than as a representative of or advocate for any particular interest. The following groups are not advisory committees:


(i) A group of persons convened on an ad hoc basis to discuss a matter of current interest to FDA, but which has no continuing function or organization and does not involve substantial special preparation.


(ii) A group of two or more FDA consultants meeting with the agency on an ad hoc basis.


(iii) A group of experts who are employed by a private company or a trade association which has been requested by FDA to provide its views on a regulatory matter pending before FDA.


(iv) A consulting firm hired by FDA to provide advice regarding a matter.


(6) An advisory committee that is utilized by FDA is subject to this subpart even though it was not established by FDA. In general, a committee is *utilized* when FDA requests advice or recommendations from the committee on a specific matter in order to obtain an independent review and consideration of the matter, and not when FDA is merely seeking the comments of all interested persons or of persons who have a specific interest in the matter.


(i) A committee formed by an independent scientific or technical organization is utilized if FDA requests advice of that committee rather than of the parent organization, or if the circumstances show that the advice given is that of the committee and not of the parent organization. A committee formed by an independent scientific or technical organization is not utilized if FDA requests advice of the organization rather than of a committee and if the recommendations of any committee formed in response to the request are subject to substantial independent policy and factual review by the governing body of the parent organization.


(ii) A committee is not utilized by FDA if it provides only information, as contrasted with advice or opinions or recommendations.


(iii) FDA is charged with seeking out the views of all segments of the public on enforcement of the laws administered by the Commissioner. The fact that a group of individuals or a committee meets regularly with FDA, for example, a monthly meeting with consumer representatives, does not make that group or committee an advisory committee. Thus, this subpart does not apply to routine meetings, discussions, and other dealings, including exchanges of views, between FDA and any committee representing or advocating the particular interests of consumers, industry, professional organizations, or others.


(7) The inclusion of one or two FDA consultants who are special Government employees on an internal FDA committee does not make that committee an advisory committee.


(8) A Public Board of Inquiry established under part 13, or other similar group convened by agreement between the parties to a regulatory proceeding pending before FDA to review and prepare an initial decision on the issues in lieu of a formal evidentiary public hearing, is acting as an administrative law tribunal and is not an advisory committee.


(9) An open public conference or meeting conducted under § 10.65(b) is not an advisory committee meeting.


(10) An FDA committee that primarily has operational responsibility rather than that of providing advice and recommendations is not an advisory committee, for example, the Research Involving Human Subjects Committee (RIHSC).


(c) This part applies only when a committee convenes to conduct committee business. Site visits, social gatherings, informal discussions by telephone or during meals or while traveling or at other professional functions, or other similar activities do not constitute a meeting.


(d) An advisory committee that is utilized but not established by FDA is subject to this part only to the extent of such utilization, and not concerning any other activities of such committee.


(e) Any conference or meeting between an employee of FDA and a committee or group which is not an advisory committee shall be subject to § 10.65 or other provisions specifically applicable to the committee or group, for example, part 13 for a Public Board of Inquiry.


(f) This part applies to all FDA advisory committees, except to the extent that specific statutes require otherwise for a particular committee, for example, TEPRSSC and advisory committees established under the Medical Device Amendments of 1976.



---

[N] [44 FR 22351, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989; 78 FR 17087, Mar. 20, 2013; 81 FR 45409, July 14, 2016]




