# ยง 63.526   Monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source shall provide evidence of continued compliance with the standard. During each compliance demonstration, maximum or minimum operating parameters, as appropriate, shall be established for processes and control devices that will indicate the source is in compliance. If the operating parameter to be established is a maximum, the value of the parameter shall be the average of the maximum values from each of the three test runs. If the operating parameter to be established is a minimum, the value of the parameter shall be the average of the minimum values from each of the three test runs. Parameter values for process vents with intermittent emission streams shall be determined as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The owner or operator shall operate processes and control devices within these parameters to ensure continued compliance with the standard. A de minimis level is specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Monitoring parameters are specified for various process vent control scenarios in paragraphs (a) (2) through (7) of this section.




(1) For affected BLR sources, uncontrolled emission points emitting less than one pound per year of HAP are not subject to the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a) (2) through (6) of this section. The owner or operator shall use the methods specified in ยง 63.525(a), as applicable, or as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, to demonstrate which emission points satisfy the de minimis criteria, to the satisfaction of the Administrator.


(i) For the purpose of determining de minimis status for emission points, engineering assessment may be used to determine process vent stream flow rate and/or concentration for the representative operating conditions expected to yield the highest flow rate and concentration. Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:


(A) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.


(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.


(C) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.


(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:


(*1*) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations,


(*2*) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities,


(*3*) Estimation of HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions.


(ii) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented in accordance with ยง 63.527(c).


(2) For affected sources using water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber water flow rate as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the scrubber water flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(3) For affected sources using condensers, the owner or operator shall establish the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the condenser outlet gas temperature, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is greater than the maximum value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(4) For affected sources using carbon adsorbers or having uncontrolled process vents, the owner or operator shall establish a maximum outlet HAP concentration as the site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the outlet HAP concentration, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is greater than the maximum value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(5) For affected sources using flares, the presence of the pilot flame shall be monitored every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance upon loss of pilot flame.


(6) Wastewater system parameters to be monitored are the parameters specified under 40 CFR part 414, subpart E. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance with this subpart W if it is found to be out of compliance with 40 CFR part 414, subpart E.


(7) For affected sources using sorbent injection, the owner or operator shall establish both a minimum sorbent injection rate and minimum carrier gas flow rate flow rate as site-specific operating parameters which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the sorbent injection rate or the carrier gas flow rate flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum values established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(b) The owner or operator of any existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems and/or is subject to the dioxins and furans emission limit for process vents shall provide evidence of continued compliance with the standard. As part of each compliance demonstrations for batch process vents, test data or compliance calculations shall be used to establish a maximum or minimum level of a relevant operating parameter for each unit operation. The parameter value for each unit operation shall represent the worst case value of the operating parameter from all episodes in the unit operation. The owner or operator shall operate processes and control devices within these parameters to ensure continued compliance with the standard.




(1) For batch process vents, the level shall be established in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section if compliance testing is performed.


(i) If testing is used to demonstrate compliance, the appropriate parameter shall be monitored during all batch emission episodes in the unit operation.




(ii) An average monitored parameter value shall be determined for each of the batch emission episodes in the unit operation.


(iii) If the level to be established for the unit operation is a maximum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the minimum of the average parameter values determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(iv) If the level to be established for the unit operation is a minimum operating parameter, the level shall be defined as the maximum of the average parameter values determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) Affected sources with condensers on process vents shall establish the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature as a site-specific operating parameter, which must be measured every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the maximum condenser outlet gas temperature, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is greater than the value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(3) For affected sources using water scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber water flow rate as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the scrubber water flow rate, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is below the minimum flow rate established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(4) For affected sources using carbon adsorbers or having uncontrolled process vents, the owner or operator shall establish a maximum outlet HAP concentration as the site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes of duration shorter than 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the outlet HAP concentration, averaged over the duration of the batch emission episode or unit operation, is greater than the value established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(5) For affected sources using flares, the presence of the pilot flame shall be monitored every 15 minutes, or at least once for batch emission episodes less than 15 minutes in duration. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance upon loss of pilot flame.


(6) Wastewater system parameters to be monitored are the parameters specified by 40 CFR part 414, subpart E. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance with this subpart W if it is found to be out of compliance with 40 CFR part 414, subpart E.


(7) For affected sources using sorbent injection, the owner or operator shall establish both a minimum sorbent injection rate and minimum carrier gas flow rate flow rate as site-specific operating parameters which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes. The affected source will be considered to be out of compliance if the sorbent injection rate or the carrier gas flow rate flow rate, averaged over any continuous 24-hour period, is below the minimum values established during the most recent compliance demonstration.




(c) Periods of time when monitoring measurements exceed the parameter values do not constitute a violation if they occur during a startup, shutdown, or malfunction, and the facility is operated in accordance with ยง 63.6(e)(1). For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.




(d) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part shall meet the monitoring requirements of subpart H of this part.





---

[N] [60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 20457, Apr. 20, 2006; 89 FR 43272, May 16, 2024]




