# § 63.5982   What parts of my facility does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each existing, new, or reconstructed affected source at facilities engaged in the manufacture of rubber tires or their components. 


(b) The affected sources are defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (tire production), paragraph (b)(2) of this section (tire cord production), paragraph (b)(3) of this section (puncture sealant application), and paragraph (b)(4) of this section (rubber processing). 


(1) The tire production affected source is the collection of all processes that use or process cements and solvents as defined in § 63.6022, located at any rubber tire manufacturing facility. It includes, but is not limited to: Storage and mixing vessels and the transfer equipment containing cements and/or solvents; wastewater handling and treatment operations; tread and cement operations; tire painting operations; ink and finish operations; undertread cement operations; process equipment cleaning materials; bead cementing operations; tire building operations; green tire spray operations; extruding, to the extent cements and solvents are used; cement house operations; marking operations; calendar operations, to the extent solvents are used; tire striping operations; tire repair operations; slab dip operations; other tire building operations, to the extent that cements and solvents are used; and balance pad operations.




(2) The tire cord production affected source is the collection of all processes engaged in the production of tire cord. It includes, but is not limited to: dipping operations, drying ovens, heat-set ovens, bulk storage tanks, mixing facilities, general facility vents, air pollution control devices, and warehouse storage vents. 


(3) The puncture sealant application affected source is the puncture sealant application booth operation used to apply puncture sealant to finished tires. 


(4) The rubber processing affected source is the collection of all rubber mixing processes (*e.g.,* banburys and associated drop mills) that either mix compounds or warm rubber compound before the compound is processed into components of rubber tires. The mixed rubber compound itself is also included in the rubber processing affected source. On and before November 29, 2024, there are no emission limitations or other requirements for the rubber processing affected source. The emission limitations for the rubber processing affected source are effective after November 29, 2024.




(c) An affected source that is not a rubber processing affected source is a new affected source if construction of the affected source commenced after October 18, 2000, and it met the applicability criteria of § 63.5981 at the time construction commenced. An affected source that is a rubber processing affected source is a new affected source if construction of the affected source commenced after November 16, 2023, and it met the applicability criteria of § 63.5981 at the time construction commenced.




(d) An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the criteria as defined in § 63.2. 


(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.



---

[N] [67 FR 45598, July 9, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 94907, Nov. 29, 2024] 




