# § 37.11   Nomination, evaluation, and designation of significant caves.

(a) *Nominations for initial and subsequent listings.* The authorized officer will give governmental agencies and the public, including those who utilize caves for scientific, educational, and recreational purposes, the opportunity to nominate potential significant caves. The authorized officer will give public notice, including a notice published in the _Federal Register,_ calling for nominations for the initial listing, including procedures for preparing and submitting the nominations. Nominations for subsequent listings will be accepted from governmental agencies and the public by the agency that manages the land where the cave is located as new cave discoveries are made or as new information becomes available. Nominations not approved for designation during the listing process may be resubmitted if better documentation or new information becomes available.


(b) *Evaluation for initial and subsequent listings.* The evaluation of the nominations for significant caves will be carried out in consultation with individuals and organizations interested in the management and use of cave resources, within the limits imposed by the confidentiality provisions of § 37.12 of this part. Nominations will be evaluated using the criteria in § 37.11(c).


(c) *Criteria for significant caves.* A significant cave on Federal lands shall possess one or more of the following features, characteristics, or values.


(1) *Biota.* The cave provides seasonal or yearlong habitat for organisms or animals, or contains species or subspecies of flora or fauna that are native to caves, or are sensitive to disturbance, or are found on State or Federal sensitive, threatened, or endangered species lists.


(2) *Cultural.* The cave contains historic properties or archaeological resources (as described in 36 CFR 60.4 and 43 CFR 7.3) or other features that are included in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places because of their research importance for history or prehistory, historical associations, or other historical or traditional significance.


(3) *Geologic/Mineralogic/Paleontologic.* The cave possesses one or more of the following features:


(i) Geologic or mineralogic features that are fragile, or that exhibit interesting formation processes, or that are otherwise useful for study.


(ii) Deposits of sediments or features useful for evaluating past events.


(iii) Paleontologic resources with potential to contribute useful educational and scientific information.


(4) *Hydrologic.* The cave is a part of a hydrologic system or contains water that is important to humans, biota, or development of cave resources.


(5) *Recreational.* The cave provides or could provide recreational opportunities or scenic values.


(6) *Educational or Scientific.* The cave offers opportunities for educational or scientific use; or, the cave is virtually in a pristine state, lacking evidence f contemporary human disturbance or impact; or, the length, volume, total depth, pit depth, height, or similar measurements are notable.


(d) *National Park Service policy.* The policy of the National Park Service, pursuant to its Organic Act of 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1, *et seq.*) and Management Policies (Chapter 4:20, Dec. 1988), is that all caves are afforded protection and will be managed in compliance with approved resource management plans. Accordingly, all caves on National Park Service-administered lands are deemed to fall within the definition of “significant cave.”


(e) *Special management areas.* Within special management areas that are designated wholly or in part due to cave resources found therein, all caves within the so-designated special management area shall be determined to be significant.


(f) *Designation and documentation.* If the authorized officer determines that a cave nominated and evaluated under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section meets one or more of the criteria in paragraph (c), the authorized officer will designate the cave as significant. The authorized officer will designate all caves identified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section to be significant. The authorized officer will notify the nominating party of the results of the evaluation and designation. Each agency Field Office will retain appropriate documentation for all significant caves located within its administrative boundaries. At a minimum, documentation shall include a statement of finding signed and dated by the authorized officer, and the information used to make the determination. This documentation will be retained as a permanent record in accordance with the confidentiality provision in § 37.12 of this part.


(g) *Decision final.* Decisions to designate or not designate a cave as significant are made at the sole discretion of the authorized officer and are not subject to further administrative review or appeal under 43 CFR part 4.


(h) If a cave is determined to be significant, its entire extent, including passages not mapped or discovered at the time of the determination, is deemed significant. This includes caves that extend from lands managed by any Federal agency into lands managed by one or more other bureaus or agencies of the Department of the Interior, as well as caves initially believed to be separate for which interconnecting passages are discovered after significance is determined.




