# ยง 50.64   Limitations on the use of highly enriched uranium (HEU) in domestic non-power reactors.

(a) *Applicability.* The requirements of this section apply to all non-power reactors.


(b) *Requirements.* (1) The Commission will not issue a construction permit after March 27, 1986 for a non-power reactor where the applicant proposes to use highly enriched uranium (HEU) fuel, unless the applicant demonstrates that the proposed reactor will have a unique purpose as defined in ยง 50.2.


(2) Unless the Commission has determined, based on a request submitted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, that the non-power reactor has a unique purpose, each licensee authorized to possess and use HEU fuel in connection with the reactor's operation shall:


(i) Not initiate acquisition of additional HEU fuel, if low enriched uranium (LEU) fuel acceptable to the Commission for that reactor is available when it proposes that acquisition; and


(ii) Replace all HEU fuel in its possession with available LEU fuel acceptable to the Commission for that reactor, in accordance with a schedule determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(3) If not required by paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section to use LEU fuel, the applicant or licensee must use HEU fuel of enrichment as close to 20% as is available and acceptable to the Commisson.


(c) *Implementation.* (1) Any request by a licensee for a determination that a non-power reactor has a unique purpose as defined in ยง 50.2 should be submitted with supporting documentation to the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, by September 29, 1986.


(2) (i) By March 27, 1987 and at 12-month intervals thereafter, each licensee of a non-power reactor authorized to possess and use HEU fuel shall develop and submit to the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation a written proposal for meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section. The licensee shall include in the proposal a certification that Federal Government funding for conversion is available through the Department of Energy (DOE) or other appropriate Federal Agency. The licensee shall also include in the proposal a schedule for conversion, based upon availability of replacement fuel acceptable to the Commisson for that reactor and upon consideration of other factors such as the availability of shipping casks, implementation of arrangements for the available financial support, and reactor usage.


(ii) If Federal Government funding for conversion cannot be certified, the proposal's contents may be limited to a statement of this fact. If a statement of non-availability of Federal Government funding for conversion is submitted by a licensee, then it shall be required to resubmit a proposal for meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section at 12-month intervals.


(iii) The proposal shall include, to the extent required to effect the conversion, all necessary changes in the license, facility, or procedures. Supporting safety analyses should be provided so as to meet the schedule established for conversion. As long as Federal Government funding for conversion is not available, the resubmittal may be a reiteration of the original proposal. The Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation shall review the proposal and confirm the status of Federal Government funding for conversion and, if a schedule for conversion has been submitted by the licensee, will then determine a final schedule.


(3) After review of the safety analysis required by paragraph (c)(2), the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation will issue an appropriate enforcement order directing both the conversion and, to the extent consistent with protection of the public health and safety, any necessary changes to the license, facility, or procedures.



---

[N] [51 FR 6519, Feb. 25, 1986]




