# § 82.23   Transfers of allowances of class II controlled substances.

(a) *Inter-company transfers.* Effective January 1, 2003, a person (“transferor”) may transfer to any other person (“transferee”) any quantity of the transferor's class II consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances for the same type of allowance as follows:


(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:


(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;


(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;


(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;


(D) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances being transferred;


(E) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;


(F) [Reserved]

(G) For trades of consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances, the quantity of the 0.1 percent offset applied to the unweighted quantity traded that will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance.


(ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the transferor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed. The transfer claim is the quantity (in kilograms) to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The Administrator will take into account any previous transfers, any production, and allowable imports and exports of class II controlled substances reported by the transferor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows: 


(A) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances, respectively, by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer when EPA issues a no objection notice. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.


(B) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. Either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.


(iii) The transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production allowances or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and/or the transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.


(b) *Inter-pollutant transfers.* (1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person (transferor) may convert consumption allowances, production allowances or Article 5 allowances for one class II controlled substance to the same type of allowance for another class II controlled substance listed in appendix B of this subpart, following the procedures described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(i) A person (transferor) may only convert allowances for one class II controlled substance for which EPA has issued allowances under § 82.16 to another class II controlled substance for which EPA has issued allowances under § 82.16.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) Inter-pollutant transfers will be permitted at any time during the control period and during the 30 days after the end of a control period.


(3) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim that includes the following:


(i) The identity and address of the transferor;


(ii) The name and telephone number of a contact person for the transferor;


(iii) The type of allowances being converted, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be converted;


(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) and type of allowances to be converted;


(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances to be subtracted from the transferor's unexpended allowances for the first class II controlled substance, to be equal to 100.1 percent of the quantity of allowances converted;


(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances to be added to the transferee's unexpended allowances for the second class II controlled substance, to be equal to the quantity (in kilograms) of allowances for the first class II controlled substance being converted multiplied by the quotient of the ozone depletion potential of the first class II controlled substance divided by the ozone depletion potential of the second class II controlled substance, as listed in Appendix B to this subpart;


(vii) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being converted; and


(viii) The quantity (in kilograms) of unexpended allowances of the type and for the control period being converted that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA.


(4) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the convertor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed (*i.e.,* the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms)). EPA will take into account any previous transfers, and any production, imports (not including transshipments or used class II controlled substances), or exports (not including transhipments or used class II controlled substances) of class II controlled substances reported by the convertor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the convertor as follows:


(i) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the convertor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.


(ii) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. The transferor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.


(iii) The transferor may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). The transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances or credits to cover the claim.


(c) *Inter-company transfers and Inter-pollutant transfers.* If a person requests an inter-company transfer and an inter-pollutant transfer simultaneously, the quantity (in kilograms) subtracted from the transferor's unexpended production or consumption allowances for the first class II controlled substance will be equal to 100.1 percent of the quantity (in kilograms) of allowances that are being converted and transferred.


(d) *Permanent transfers.* The procedures in paragraph (a) of this section apply to permanent inter-company transfers of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances. A person receiving a permanent transfer of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances (the transferee) for a specific class II controlled substance will be the person who has their baseline allowances adjusted in accordance with phaseout schedules in this subpart. No person may conduct permanent inter-pollutant transfers of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances.



---

[N] [68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 20028, Apr. 3, 2013; 85 FR 15298, Mar. 17, 2020]




