# § 21.5136   Benefit payments—secondary school program.

(a) *Restrictions on payments.* (1) The Department of Veterans Affairs may authorize benefits to qualified enlisted servicepersons for a course, courses or program of education leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate without charge to entitlement. Payments may be made only if:


(i) The individual has contributed to the fund for at least 1 month, and


(ii) The training is received while the individual is serving:


(A) The last 6 months of his or her first enlistment after December 31, 1976; or


(B) At any time after completing his or her first enlistment.


(2) An individual who is not on active duty must have been an enlisted serviceperson while he or she was on active duty in order to receive benefits while enrolled in a course, courses or program of education leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate.


(b) *Monthly rate.* An individual pursuing a course, courses or a program of education leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate will receive one of two monthly rates.


(1) Unless the individual notifies the Department of Veterans Affairs to the contrary, the monthly rate of his or her educational assistance allowance will be based upon his or her tuition and fees. The Department of Veterans Affairs will make no charge against the entitlement of the individual who is receiving benefits at this monthly rate. The monthly rate will be the rate of tuition and fees being charged to the individual for the course, not to exceed:


(i) $376 for full-time training.


(ii) $283 for three-quarter time training.


(iii) $188 for half-time training.


(iv) $94 for quarter-time training.


(2) The individual may elect to receive educational assistance allowance at the monthly rate provided in § 21.5138. The Department of Veterans Affairs will make an appropriate charge against the individual's entitlement if such an election is made.


(c) *Method of payment.* (1) If the individual's educational assistance allowance is based upon the rate as determined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, payment shall be made in a lump sum for the term, quarter or semester at the beginning of the month in which training begins.


(2) If the individual elects to have his or her educational assistance allowance computed as provided in § 21.5138, payment will be made in the same manner as for any other residence training.



---

[N] [47 FR 51746, Nov. 17, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 19933, May 13, 1985]




