# § 60.5370b   When must I comply with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the standards of this subpart no later than May 7, 2024 or upon initial startup, whichever date is later, except as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for reciprocating compressor affected facilities, paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section for storage vessel affected facilities, paragraph (a)(4) of this section for process unit equipment affected facilities at onshore natural gas processing plants, paragraph (a)(5) of this section for process controllers, paragraph (a)(6) of this section for pumps, paragraph (a)(7) of this section for centrifugal compressor affected facilities, and paragraphs § 60.5377b(b) or (c) for associated gas wells.


(1) You must comply with the requirements of § 60.5385b for your reciprocating compressor affected facility as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) You must comply with the requirements of § 60.5385b(a)(1) on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024, on or before 8,760 hours of operation after last rod packing replacement, or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, whichever date is later; and


(ii) You must comply with the requirements of § 60.5385b(a)(2) within 8,760 hours after compliance with § 60.5385b(a)(1) and (d)(3).


(iii) You must comply with the requirements of § 60.5385b(d)(1) and (2) for your reciprocating compressor upon initial startup.


(2) You must comply with the requirements of paragraphs § 60.5395b(a)(1) for your storage vessel affected facility as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Within 30 days after startup of production, or within 30 days after reconstruction or modification of the storage vessel affected facility, for each storage vessel affected facility located at a well site or centralized production facility.


(ii) Prior to startup of the compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant, or within 30 days after reconstruction or modification of the storage vessel affected facility, for each storage vessel affected facility located at a compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant.


(3) You must comply with the requirements of paragraph § 60.5395b(a)(2) as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable:


(i) For each storage vessel affected facility located at a well site or centralized production facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions within 30 days after the determination in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(ii) For storage vessel affected facilities located at a compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant, you must achieve the required emissions reductions within 30 days after the determination in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(4) You must comply with the requirements of § 60.5400b or as an alternative, the requirements in § 60.5401b, for all process unit equipment affected facilities at a natural gas processing plant, as soon as practicable but no later than 180 days after the initial startup of the process unit.


(5) For process controller affected facilities, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Any process controller affected facilities may comply with § 60.5390b(b)(1) and (2) or (3) as an alternative to compliance with § 60.5390b(a) until [May 7, 2025.


(ii) On or after May 7, 2025, process controller affected facilities must comply with § 60.5390b(a) or (b), as specified in those paragraphs.


(6) For pump affected facilities, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Any pump affected facility may comply with § 60.5393b(b)(2) through (8), as applicable, as an alternative to compliance with § 60.5393b(a) until May 7, 2025.


(ii) On or after May 7, 2025, pump affected facilities must comply with § 60.5393b(a) or (b), as specified in those paragraphs.


(7) For centrifugal compressor affected facilities, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) You must comply with the requirements of § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2) or (a)(3) for your centrifugal compressor upon initial startup.


(ii) Each centrifugal compressor affected facility that uses dry seals, each self-contained wet seal compressor, and each centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system, complying with one of the alternatives in § 60.5380b(a)(4), (5), or (6), must comply with the specified performance-based volumetric flow rate work practice standards on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024, on or before 8,760 hours of operation after last seal replacement, or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, whichever date is later.


(b) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, owners and operators shall maintain and operate any affected facility including associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, opacity observations, review of operating and maintenance procedures, and inspection of the source. The provisions for exemption from compliance during periods of startup, shutdown and malfunctions provided for in 40 CFR 60.8(c) do not apply to this subpart.


(c) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62891, Aug. 1, 2024]






