# § 4280.56   Submission of reports and audits.

(a) In addition to any reports and audits required by 2 CFR part 200 and subpart F as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400, the Intermediary must submit the following monitoring reports to Rural Development:


(1) *Loan.* The Intermediary must submit Form RD 4280-1 “Survey of Recipients of Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program” to Rural Development on an annual basis until it no longer owes money to USDA under the REDLG Program.


(2) *Grant (Revolving Loan Fund).* The Intermediary must submit the Form RD 4280-1 to Rural Development on an annual basis until all projects financed with Rural Development Grant proceeds have been repaid or are otherwise retired, whichever occurs last. Thereafter, on a triennial basis until the fund is terminated, the Intermediary will submit to Rural Development the Form RD 4280-1, reporting on the activity of all loans made from the Revolving Loan Fund.


(b) If the Intermediary does not have an existing loan with RUS, the Intermediary will submit a copy of its annual audit to Rural Development within 90 days of its completion. All REDL audits must be conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and REDG audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400.


(c) Rural Development may require Ultimate Recipients that receive loans financed with Grant funds provided under the REDG Program to submit annual audits to comply with Federal audit regulations. In accordance with 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400, Ultimate Recipients that are nonprofit entities, or a State or local government, may be required to submit an audit subject to the threshold established in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by in 2 CFR part 400.



---

[N] [72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]




