# § 42.71   Authority to issue visas; visa fees.

(a) *Authority to issue visas.* Consular officers may issue immigrant visas at designated consular offices abroad pursuant to the authority contained in INA 101(a)(16), 221(a), and 224.


(b) *Immigrant visa fees*—(1) *Payment of fees.* The Secretary of State prescribes a fee for the processing of immigrant visa applications. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, an individual registered for immigrant visa processing at a post designated for this purpose by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Visa Services must pay the fee upon being notified that a visa is expected to become available in the near future, and upon being requested to obtain the supporting documentation needed to apply formally for a visa, in accordance with instructions received with such notification. The fee must be paid before an applicant at a post so designated will receive an appointment to appear and make application before a consular officer. Applicants at a post not yet so designated will pay the fee immediately prior to formal application for a visa. A fee collected for the processing of an immigrant visa application is refundable only if the principal officer of a post or the officer in charge of a consular section determines that the application was not adjudicated as a result of action by the U.S. Government over which the alien had no control and for which the alien was not responsible, which precluded the applicant from benefitting from the processing, or as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) *Waiver or refund of fees for replacement immigrant visas for adoptees.* The consular officer shall waive the application processing fee for a replacement immigrant visa or, upon request, refund such a fee where already paid, if the consular officer is satisfied that the alien, the alien's parent(s), or the alien's representative has established that:


(i) The prior immigrant visa was issued on or after March 27, 2013, to an alien who has been lawfully adopted, or who is coming to the United States to be adopted, by a United States citizen;


(ii) The alien was unable to use the original immigrant visa during the period of its validity as a direct result of extraordinary circumstances, including the denial of an exit permit; and


(iii) The inability to use the visa was attributable to factors beyond the control of the adopting parent or parents and of the alien.


(3) *Exemption from fees for immigrant visa applicants previously refused solely pursuant to Proclamation 9645 or Proclamation 9983.* An immigrant visa applicant shall be exempt from the application processing fee and the affidavit of support review fee, if the applicant was previously denied an immigrant visa on or between December 8, 2017, and January 19, 2020; the sole ground of ineligibility was based on Proclamation 9645 or 9983; and the applicant is applying again for an immigrant visa. This paragraph (b)(3) provides only for a one-time exemption of the applicable fees per applicant.



---

[N] [84 FR 35298, July 23, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 2705, Jan. 19, 2022; 88 FR 35740, June 1, 2023]








