# § 0.168   Redelegation by Assistant Attorneys General.

(a) Assistant Attorneys General are authorized, with respect to matters assigned to their respective divisions, to redelegate to subordinate division officials and United States Attorneys any of the authority delegated by §§ 0.160 (a), (b), and (c), 0.162, 0.164, and 0.172(b), except that any disagreement between a United States Attorney or other Department attorney and a client agency over a proposed settlement that cannot be resolved below the Assistant Attorney General level must be presented to the Assistant Attorney General for resolution.


(b) Redelegations of authority under this section shall be in writing and shall be approved by the Deputy Attorney General or the Associate Attorney General, as appropriate, before taking effect.


(c) Existing delegations and redelegations of authority to subordinate division officials and United States Attorneys to compromise or close civil claims shall continue in effect until modified or revoked by the respective Assistant Attorneys General.


(d) Subject to the limitations set forth in § 0.160(d) and paragraph (a) of this section, redelegations by the Assistant Attorneys General to United States Attorneys may include the authority to:


(1) Accept offers in compromise of claims asserted by the United States in all cases in which the gross amount of the original claim does not exceed $10,000,000; and


(2) Accept offers in compromise of, or settle administratively, claims against the United States in all cases in which the principal amount of the proposed settlement does not exceed $1,000,000.



---

[N] [Order No. 1958-95, 60 FR 15675, Mar. 27, 1995, as amended by AG Order No. 3532-2015, 80 FR 30618, May 29, 2015]




