# § 1493.220   Information required for seller participation.

(a) *Qualification requirements.* Sellers must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the FGP. To qualify for participation in the FGP, an applicant must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:


(1) For the applicant:


(i) The name and full U.S. address (including the full 9-digit zip code) of the applicant's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence. A post office box is not an acceptable address. If the applicant has multiple offices, the address included in the information should be that which is pertinent to the FGP sales contemplated by the applicant;


(ii) Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number;


(iii) Employer Identification Number (EIN—also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number);


(iv) Telephone and fax numbers;


(v) Email address (if applicable);


(vi) Business Web site (if applicable);


(vii) Contact name;


(viii) Statement indicating whether the applicant is a U.S. domestic entity or a foreign entity domiciled in the United States; and


(ix) The form of business entity of the applicant, (*e.g.,* sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, etc.) and the U.S. jurisdiction under which such entity is organized and authorized to conduct business. Such jurisdictions are a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories or possessions of the United States. Upon request by CCC, the applicant must provide written evidence that such entity has been organized in a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or a territory or possession of the United States.


(2) For the applicant's headquarters office:


(i) The name and full address of the applicant's headquarters office (a post office box is not an acceptable address); and


(ii) Telephone and fax numbers.


(3) For the applicant's agent for the service of process:


(i) The name and full U.S. address of the applicant's agent's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence;


(ii) Telephone and fax numbers;


(iii) Email address (if applicable); and


(iv) Contact name.


(4) A description of the applicant's business. Applicants must provide the following information:


(i) Nature of the applicant's business (*i.e.,* producer, service provider, trader, consulting firm, etc.);


(ii) Explanation of the applicant's experience/history selling the goods or services to be sold under the FGP, including number of years involved in selling, types of goods or services sold, and destination of sales for the preceding three years;


(iii) Whether or not the applicant is a “small or medium enterprise” (SME) as defined on the USDA Web site.


(5) A listing of any related companies (*e.g.,* affiliates, subsidiaries, or companies otherwise related through common ownership) currently qualified to participate in CCC export programs;


(6) A statement describing the applicant's participation, if any, during the past three years in U.S. Government programs, contracts or agreements; and


(7) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.250(a) are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.250(a). The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.


(b) *Qualification notification.* CCC will promptly notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.


(c) *Previous qualification.* Any seller that is currently qualified under subpart B of this part, § 1493.30, need only provide the information requested in § 1493.220(a)(4). Once CCC receives that information, CCC will notify the seller that the seller is qualified under this section to submit applications for an FGP payment guarantee, and the other information provided by the seller pursuant to § 1493.30 will be deemed to also have been provided under this section. Any seller not submitting an application for a GSM-102 or FGP payment guarantee for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years must resubmit a qualification application containing the information specified in § 1493.220(a) to CCC to participate in the FGP. If at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the seller must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) of this section has not changed.


(d) *Ineligibility for program participation.* An applicant may be ineligible to participate in the FGP if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required in § 1493.220(a).




