# ยง 41.3   Application for an exemptive order pursuant to section 4f(a)(4)(B) of the Act.

(a) Any futures commission merchant or introducing broker registered in accordance with the notice registration provisions of ยง 3.10 of this chapter, or any broker or dealer exempt from floor broker or floor trader registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3) of the Act, may apply to the Commission for an order pursuant to section 4f(a)(4)(B) of the Act granting exemption to such person from any provision of the Act or the Commission's regulations other than sections 4c(b), 4c(d), 4c(e), 4c(g), 4d, 4e, 4h, 4f(b), 4f(c), 4j, 4k(1), 4p, 6d, 8(d), 8(g), and 16 of the Act and the rules thereunder.


(b) An application pursuant to this section must set forth in writing or in an electronic mail message the following information:


(1) The name, main business address and main business telephone number of the person applying for an order;


(2) The capacity in which the person is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the person's CRD number (if a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.) or equivalent self-regulatory organization identification, together with a certification, if true, that the person's registration is not suspended pursuant to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission;


(3) The particular section(s) of the Act and/or provision(s) of the Commission's regulations with respect to which the person seeks exemption;


(4) Any provision(s) of the securities laws or rules, or of the rules of a securities self-regulatory organization analogous to the provision(s);


(5) A clear explanation of the facts and circumstances under which the person believes that the requested exemptive relief is necessary or appropriate in the public interest; and


(6) A clear explanation of the extent to which the requested exemptive relief is consistent with the protection of investors.


(c) A national securities exchange or other securities industry self-regulatory organization may submit an application for an order pursuant to this section on behalf of its members.


(d) An application for an order must be submitted to the Director of the Market Participants Division, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters if in paper form, or to *MPDletters@cftc.gov* if submitted via electronic mail.




(e) The Commission may, in its sole discretion, grant the application, deny the application, decline to entertain the application, or grant the application subject to one or more conditions.



---

[N] [66 FR 43086, Aug. 17, 2001. Redesignated at 67 FR 53171, Aug. 14, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71812, Sept. 4, 2024]




