# § 1010.208   General information.

(a) *Administrative information.* (1) State whether the material represents an initial Statement of Record or a consolidated Statement of Record. If it is a consolidated Statement of Record, identify the original ILSRP number assigned to the initial Statement of Record. State whether subsequent Statements of Record will be submitted for additional lots in the subdivision.


(2) Has the developer submitted a request for an exemption for the subdivision?


(3) List the states in which registration has been made by the developer for the sale of lots in the subdivision.


(4) If any state listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section has not permitted a registration to become effective or has suspended the registration or prohibited sales, name the state involved and give the reasons cited by the state for their action.


(5) State whether the developer has made, or intends to make, a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) which is related in any way to the subdivision. If a filing has been made with the SEC, give the SEC identification number; identify the prospectus by name; date of filing and state the page number of the prospectus upon which specific reference to the subdivision is made. Any disciplinary action taken against the developer by the SEC should be disclosed in §§ 1010.116 and 1010.216.


(b) *Subdivision information.* (1) If this is a consolidated Statement of Record, state the number of lots being added, the number of lots in prior Statements of Record and the new total number of lots. The Director must be able to reconcile the numbers stated here with the title evidence; the plat maps and the disclosure in § 1010.108.


(2) State the number of acres represented by the lots in this Statement of Record. If this is a consolidated Statement of Record, state the number of acres being added, the number of acres in prior Statements of Record and the new total number of acres. State the total acreage owned in the subdivision, the number of acres under option or similar arrangement for acquisition of title to the land and the total acreage to be offered pursuant to the same common promotional plan.


(3) State whether any lots have been sold in this subdivision since April 28, 1969, and prior to registration with ILSRP. If they were sold pursuant to an exemption, identify the exemption provision and state whether an advisory opinion, exemption order or exemption determination was obtained with respect to those lots sales. Give the ILSRP number assigned to the exemption, if any.


(c) *Developer information.* (1) State the name, address, Internal Revenue Service number and telephone number of the owner of the land. If the owner is other than an individual, name the type of legal entity and list the interest, and extent thereof, of each principal. Identify the officers and directors.


(2) If the developer is not the owner of the land, state the developer's name, address, Internal Revenue Service number and telephone number. If the developer is other than an individual, name the type of legal entity and list the interest, and the extent thereof, of each principal. Identify the officers and directors.


(3) If you wish to appoint an authorized agent, state the agent's name, address and telephone number and scope of responsibility. This shall be the party designated by the developer to receive correspondence, service of process and notice of any action taken by ILSRP. In all Statements of Record, including those for foreign subdivisions, the authorized agent shall be a resident of the United States. A change of the authorized agent will require an appropriate amendment.


(4) State whether the owner of the land, the developer, its parent, subsidiaries or any of the principals, officers or directors of any of them are directly or indirectly involved in any other subdivision containing 100 or more lots. If so, identify the subdivision by name, location, and ILSRP number, if any.


(5) State whether the owner or developer is a subsidiary corporation. If either the owner or developer is a subsidiary corporation or if any of the principals of the owner or developer are corporate entities, name the parent and/or corporate entity and state the principals of each to the ultimate parent entity.


(d) *Documentation.* (1) Submit a copy of the property report, subdivision report, offering statement or similar document filed with the state or states with which the subdivision has been registered.


(2) Submit a copy of a general plan of the subdivision. This general plan must consist of a map, prepared to scale, and it must identify the various proposed sections or blocks within the subdivision, the existing or proposed roads or streets, and the location of the existing or proposed recreational and/or common facilities. In an initial filing, this map must at least show the area included in the Statement of Record. In a consolidated Statement of Record, show areas being added, as well as the areas previously registered. If a map of the entire subdivision is submitted with the initial Statement of Record, and if no substantial changes are made when material for a consolidated Statement of Record is submitted, the original map may be included by reference.


(3)(i) If the developer is a corporation, submit a copy of the articles of incorporation, with all amendments; a copy of the certificate of incorporation or a certificate of a corporation in good standing and, if the subdivision is located in a state other than the one in which the original certificate of corporation was issued, a certificate of registration as a foreign corporation with the state where the subdivision is located.


(ii) If the developer is a partnership, unincorporated association, joint stock company, joint venture or other form of organization, submit a copy of the articles of partnership or association and all other documents relating to its organization.


(iii) If the developer is not the owner of the land, submit copies of the above documents for the owner.




