# § 5.30   Facilities and other equipment.

(a) This subpart contains regulations related to the facilities and other equipment used by the Auxiliary or loaned by the Auxiliary to the Coast Guard.


(b) *Status*—(1) *Duty.* Personal property of the Auxiliary, except when used for other than Auxiliary purposes in accordance with 14 U.S.C. 3902, will be considered assigned to authorized Coast Guard duty at all times.


(2) *Liability.* Personal property of the Auxiliary, except when used for other than Auxiliary purposes in accordance with 14 U.S.C. 3902, will be treated as property of the United States for the purposes of the Federal Tort Claims Act, the Military Claims Act, the Public Vessels Act, the Suits in Admiralty Act, the Admiralty Extension Act, and other matters related to non-contractual civil liability. Personal property of the Auxiliary is not normally covered for damage to the property itself.


(3) *Federal status of facilities and other equipment.* A vessel, aircraft, or radio station owned by, in the custody of, or under the administrative jurisdiction of the Auxiliary will be considered a public vessel of the United States, public vessel of the Coast Guard, public aircraft, Coast Guard Aircraft, and/or government station, in accordance with federal law.


(c) *Expenses.* (1) The Coast Guard may reimburse expenses related to the use, operation, or maintenance of a facility.


(2) The Coast Guard may reimburse expenses for damage or loss to or by a facility, including remediation, restoration, repair, replacement, or salvage costs.


(3) The Coast Guard may provide an allowance for the maintenance of a facility.



---

[N] [USCG-1999-6712, 80 FR 3476, Jan. 23, 2015, as amended by USCG-2020-0304, 85 FR 58276, Sept. 18, 2020]




