# § 2804.12   What must I do when submitting my application?

(a) File your application on Standard Form 299, available from any BLM office or at *https://www.blm.gov,* and fill in the required information. The application must include the applicant's original signature or meet the BLM standards for electronic commerce. Your complete application must include the following:




(1) A description of the project and the scope of the facilities;


(2) The estimated schedule for constructing, operating, maintaining, and terminating the project;


(3) The estimated life of the project and the proposed construction and reclamation techniques;


(4) A map of the project showing its proposed location and existing facilities adjacent to the proposal, and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) shapefiles, or equivalent format, when requested by the BLM;


(5) A statement of your financial and technical capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate the project;


(6) Any plans, contracts, agreements, or other information concerning your use of the right-of-way and its effect on competition;


(7) A statement certifying that you are of legal age and authorized to do business in the State(s) where the right-of-way would be located and that you have submitted correct information to the best of your knowledge; and


(8) A schedule for the submission of a plan of development (POD) conforming to the POD template at *http://www.blm.gov,* should the BLM require you to submit a POD under § 2804.25(c).


(b) When submitting an application for a solar or wind energy development project or for a transmission line project with a capacity of 100 kV or more, in addition to the information required in paragraph (a) of this section, you must:


(1) Include a general description of the proposed project and a schedule for the submission of a POD conforming to the POD template at *http://www.blm.gov;*

(2) Address all known potential resource conflicts with sensitive resources and values, including special designations or protections, and include applicant-proposed measures to avoid, minimize, and compensate for such resource conflicts, if any;


(3) Initiate early discussions with any grazing permittees that may be affected by the proposed project in accordance with 43 CFR 4110.4-2(b); and


(4) Within 6 months from the time the BLM receives the cost recovery fee under § 2804.14, schedule and hold two preliminary application review meetings as follows:


(i) The first meeting will be with the BLM to discuss the general project proposal, the status of BLM land use planning for the lands involved, potential siting issues or concerns, potential environmental issues or concerns, potential alternative site locations and the right-of-way application process;


(ii) The second meeting will be with appropriate Federal and State agencies and tribal and local governments to facilitate coordination of potential environmental and siting issues and concerns; and


(iii) You and the BLM may agree to hold additional preliminary application review meetings.




(c) You must meet additional requirements when applying for a solar or wind energy development or short-term right-of-way, as follows:


(1) Pay an application filing fee of $2 per acre for short-term right-of-way applications or $15 per acre for solar or wind energy development applications. The BLM will apply the application filing fee toward the processing fees described in §§ 2804.14 through 2804.22. The BLM will refund the balance of any application filing fee at the end of the BLM's application review process if the application filing fee exceeds the amount of the processing fee.


(2) Pay additional reasonable costs in addition to payment of the application filing fee when processing your application, pursuant to § 2804.14. A processing or monitoring Category 6 cost recovery fee may be reduced by the application filing fee paid when submitting an application.


(d) If you are unable to meet a requirement of the application outlined in this section, you may submit a request for an alternative requirement under § 2804.40.


(e) If you are a business entity, you must also submit the following information:


(1) Copies of the formal documents creating the entity, such as articles of incorporation, and including the corporate bylaws;


(2) Evidence that the party signing the application has the authority to bind the applicant;


(3) The name and address of each participant in the business;


(4) The name and address of each shareholder owning 3 percent or more of the shares and the number and percentage of any class of voting shares of the entity which such shareholder is authorized to vote;


(5) The name and address of each affiliate of the business;


(6) The number of shares and the percentage of any class of voting stock owned by the business, directly or indirectly, in any affiliate controlled by the business;


(7) The number of shares and the percentage of any class of voting stock owned by an affiliate, directly or indirectly, in the business controlled by the affiliate; and


(8) If you have already provided the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section to the BLM and the information remains accurate, you need only reference the BLM serial number under which you previously filed it.


(f) The BLM may require you to submit additional information at any time while processing your application. The BLM will identify additional information in a written deficiency notice asking you to provide the information within a specified time pursuant to § 2804.25(c).




(g) If you are a Federal oil and gas lessee or operator and you need a right-of-way for access to your production facilities or oil and gas lease, you may include your right-of-way requirements with your Application for Permit to Drill or Sundry Notice required under parts 3160 through 3190 of this chapter.


(h) If you are filing with another Federal agency for a license, certificate of public convenience and necessity, or other authorization for a project involving a right-of-way on public lands, simultaneously file an application with the BLM for a grant. Include a copy of the materials, or reference all the information, you filed with the other Federal agency.


(i) *Inter-agency coordination.* You may request, in writing, an exemption from the requirements of this section if you can demonstrate to the BLM that you have satisfied similar requirements by participating in an inter-agency coordination process with another Federal, State, local, or Tribal authority. No exemption is approved until you receive BLM approval in writing.




(j) Complete applications: Your application will not be complete until you have met or addressed the requirements of this section to the satisfaction of the BLM. The BLM will notify you in writing when your application is complete.





---

[N] [81 FR 92207, Dec. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 25959, Apr. 12, 2024; 89 FR 35678, May 1, 2024; 89 FR 104890, Dec. 26, 2024]




