# ยง 402.02   Definitions.

*Act* means the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*

*Action* means all activities or programs of any kind authorized, funded, or carried out, in whole or in part, by Federal agencies in the United States or upon the high seas. Examples include, but are not limited to: 


(a) actions intended to conserve listed species or their habitat; 


(b) the promulgation of regulations; 


(c) the granting of licenses, contracts, leases, easements, rights-of-way, permits, or grants-in-aid; or 


(d) actions directly or indirectly causing modifications to the land, water, or air.


*Action area* means all areas to be affected directly or indirectly by the Federal action and not merely the immediate area involved in the action.


*Applicant* refers to any person, as defined in section 3(13) of the Act, who requires formal approval or authorization from a Federal agency as a prerequisite to conducting the action.


*Biological assessment* refers to the information prepared by or under the direction of the Federal agency concerning listed and proposed species and designated and proposed critical habitat that may be present in the action area and the evaluation potential effects of the action on such species and habitat.


*Biological opinion* is the document that states the opinion of the Service as to whether or not the Federal action is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of listed species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. 


*Conference* is a process which involves informal discussions between a Federal agency and the Service under section 7(a)(4) of the Act regarding the impact of an action on proposed species or proposed critical habitat and recommendations to minimize or avoid the adverse effects.


*Conservation recommendations* are suggestions of the Service regarding discretionary measures to minimize or avoid adverse effects of a proposed action on listed species or critical habitat or regarding the development of information. 


*Critical habitat* refers to an area designated as critical habitat listed in 50 CFR parts 17 or 226.


*Cumulative effects* are those effects of future State or private activities, not involving Federal activities, that are reasonably certain to occur within the action area of the Federal action subject to consultation.


*Designated non-Federal representative* refers to a person designated by the Federal agency as its representative to conduct informal consultation and/or to prepare any biological assessment.




*Destruction or adverse modification* means a direct or indirect alteration that appreciably diminishes the value of critical habitat as a whole for the conservation of a listed species. 




*Director* refers to the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries for the National Marine Fisheries Service, or his or her authorized representative; or the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, or his or her authorized representative.






*Early consultation* is a process requested by a Federal agency on behalf of a prospective applicant under section 7(a)(3) of the Act.




*Effects of the action* are all consequences to listed species or critical habitat that are caused by the proposed action, including the consequences of other activities that are caused by the proposed action but that are not part of the action. A consequence is caused by the proposed action if it would not occur but for the proposed action and it is reasonably certain to occur. Effects of the action may occur later in time and may include consequences occurring outside the immediate area involved in the action.


*Environmental baseline* refers to the condition of the listed species or its designated critical habitat in the action area, without the consequences to the listed species or designated critical habitat caused by the proposed action. The environmental baseline includes the past and present impacts of all Federal, State, or private actions and other human activities in the action area, the anticipated impacts of all proposed Federal projects in the action area that have already undergone formal or early section 7 consultation, and the impact of State or private actions which are contemporaneous with the consultation in process. The impacts to listed species or designated critical habitat from Federal agency activities or existing Federal agency facilities that are not within the agency's discretion to modify are part of the environmental baseline.












*Formal consultation* is a process between the Service and the Federal agency that commences with the Federal agency's written request for consultation under section 7(a)(2) of the Act and concludes with the Service's issuance of the biological opinion under section 7(b)(3) of the Act.


*Framework programmatic action* means, for purposes of an incidental take statement, a Federal action that approves a framework for the development of future action(s) that are authorized, funded, or carried out at a later time, and any take of a listed species would not occur unless and until those future action(s) are authorized, funded, or carried out and subject to further section 7 consultation.


*Incidental take* refers to takings that result from, but are not the purpose of, carrying out an otherwise lawful activity conducted by the Federal agency or applicant. 


*Informal consultation* is an optional process that includes all discussions, correspondence, etc., between the Service and the Federal agency or the designated non-Federal representative prior to formal consultation, if required. 


*Jeopardize the continued existence of* means to engage in an action that reasonably would be expected, directly or indirectly, to reduce appreciably the likelihood of both the survival and recovery of a listed species in the wild by reducing the reproduction, numbers, or distribution of that species. 


*Listed species* means any species of fish, wildlife, or plant which has been determined to be endangered or threatened under section 4 of the Act. Listed species are found in 50 CFR 17.11-17.12.


*Major construction activity* is a construction project (or other undertaking having similar physical impacts) which is a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment as referred to in the National Environmental Policy Act [NEPA, 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)].


*Mixed programmatic action* means, for purposes of an incidental take statement, a Federal action that approves action(s) that will not be subject to further section 7 consultation, and also approves a framework for the development of future action(s) that are authorized, funded, or carried out at a later time and any take of a listed species would not occur unless and until those future action(s) are authorized, funded, or carried out and subject to further section 7 consultation.


*Preliminary biological opinion* refers to an opinion issued as a result of early consultation.




*Programmatic consultation* is a consultation addressing an agency's multiple actions on a program, region, or other basis. Programmatic consultations allow the Services to consult on the effects of programmatic actions such as:


(1) Multiple similar, frequently occurring, or routine actions expected to be implemented in particular geographic areas; and


(2) A proposed program, plan, policy, or regulation providing a framework for future proposed actions.






*Proposed critical habitat* means habitat proposed in the _Federal Register_ to be designated or revised as critical habitat under section 4 of the Act for any listed or proposed species.


*Proposed species* means any species of fish, wildlife, or plant that is proposed in the _Federal Register_ to be listed under section 4 of the Act.


*Reasonable and prudent alternatives* refer to alternative actions identified during formal consultation that can be implemented in a manner consistent with the intended purpose of the action, that can be implemented consistent with the scope of the Federal agency's legal authority and jurisdiction, that is economically and technologically feasible, and that the Director believes would avoid the likelihood of jeopardizing the continued existence of listed species or resulting in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. 




*Reasonable and prudent measures* refer to those actions the Director considers necessary or appropriate to minimize the impact of the incidental take on the species.






*Recovery* means improvement in the status of listed species to the point at which listing is no longer appropriate under the criteria set out in section 4(a)(1) of the Act.


*Service* means the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or the National Marine Fisheries Service, as appropriate.



---

[N] [51 FR 19957, June 3, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 76286, Dec. 16, 2008; 74 FR 20422, May 4, 2009; 80 FR 26844, May 11, 2015; 81 FR 7225, Feb. 11, 2016; 84 FR 45016, Aug. 27, 2019; 89 FR 24297, Apr. 5, 2024]




