# § 63.113   Process vent provisions—reference control technology.

(a) The owner or operator of a Group 1 process vent as defined in this subpart shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, and paragraph (a)(5) of this section. The owner or operator who transfers a gas stream that has the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h) or meets the criteria specified in § 63.107(i) to an off-site location or an on-site location not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source for disposal shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section.


(1) Reduce emissions of organic HAP using a flare.


(i) Except as specified in § 63.108(a), the flare shall comply with the requirements of § 63.11(b).


(ii) Halogenated vent streams, as defined in § 63.111, shall not be vented to a flare.


(2) Reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume. For combustion devices, the emission reduction or concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis, corrected to 3-percent oxygen, and compliance can be determined by measuring either organic hazardous air pollutants or total organic carbon using the procedures in § 63.116.


(i) Compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be achieved by using any combination of combustion, recovery, and/or recapture devices, except that a recovery device may not be used to comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section by reducing emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) An owner or operator may use a recovery device, alone or in combination with one or more combustion or recapture devices, to reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent if all the conditions of paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (a)(2)(ii)(D) of this section are met.


(A) The recovery device (and any combustion device or recapture device which operates in combination with the recovery device to reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent) was installed before the date of proposal of the subpart of this part 63 that makes this subpart G applicable to process vents in the chemical manufacturing process unit.


(B) The recovery device that will be used to reduce emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent is the last recovery device before emission to the atmosphere.


(C) The recovery device, alone or in combination with one or more combustion or recapture devices, is capable of reducing emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants by 98 weight-percent, but is not capable of reliably reducing emissions of total organic hazardous air pollutants to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume.


(D) If the owner or operator disposed of the recovered material, the recovery device would comply with the requirements of this subpart for recapture devices.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 at the outlet of the final recovery device, or prior to release of the vent stream to the atmosphere if no recovery device is present. If the TRE index value is greater than 1.0, the process vent shall comply with the provisions for a Group 2 process vent specified in either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, whichever is applicable.


(4) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), the provisions specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (xv) of this section no longer apply. Instead, an owner or operator of a Group 1 process vent as defined in § 63.101 must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section; and an owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent as defined in § 63.101 must comply with the requirements of paragraph (f) or (g) of this section.


(i) Paragraphs (a)(3), (d), and (e) of this section;


(ii) Section 63.114(b) and (c)(2);


(iii) Section 63.115(d), except (d)(2)(v);


(iv) The following phrases in § 63.115(e): “TRE index value”, “changes that are within the range on which the original TRE calculation was based”, and “the recalculated TRE index value is less than or equal to 1.0, or less than or equal to 4.0 but greater than 1.0”;


(v) The following phrases in § 63.115(f): “TRE index value”, and “regardless of the TRE index value determined at the location specified in § 63.115(a)”;


(vi) The last two sentences in § 63.115(f)(2): “If the combined vent stream is a Group 2 process vent as determined by the previous sentence, but one or more of the HON streams, or combinations of HON streams, has a TRE index value greater than 1 but less than or equal to 4, the combined vent stream is a process vent with a TRE index value greater than 1 but less than or equal to 4. In this case, the owner or operator shall monitor the combined vent stream as required by § 63.114(b).”;


(vii) The phrase in § 63.117(a): “or the provisions for Group 2 process vents with a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than or equal to 4.0 in § 63.113(d)”;


(viii) The phrase in § 63.117(a)(3): “TRE determinations or”;


(ix) Section 63.117(a)(7) and (b);


(x) Section 63.118(b), (c), (d)(3), (e)(3), (h), (i), (j), and (k)(4);


(xi) The following phrase in § 63.118(g)(2): “and TRE index value”;


(xii) The last sentence in § 63.150(g)(2)(iii)(B)(*2*);


(xiii) The phrase in § 63.150(m)(2)(i): “and TRE index value”;


(xiv) The last sentence in § 63.151(d)(6)(i); and


(xv) Table 4 to subpart G of this part.


(5) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), an owner or operator of a Group 1 process vent as defined in § 63.101 that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(b) If a boiler or process heater is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement or concentration limit specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of such a device.


(c) Halogenated vent streams from Group 1 process vents that are combusted shall be controlled according to paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) If a combustion device is used to comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a halogenated vent stream, then the gas stream exiting the combustion device shall be conveyed to a halogen reduction device, such as a scrubber, before it is discharged to the atmosphere.


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the halogen reduction device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, by 99 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass of total hydrogen halides and halogens to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour.


(ii) If a scrubber or other halogen reduction device was installed prior to December 31, 1992, the device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens, as defined in § 63.111, by 95 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass of total hydrogen halides and halogens to less than 0.45 kilograms per hour.


(2) A halogen reduction device, such as a scrubber or other technique, may be used to reduce the vent stream halogen atom mass emission rate to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour prior to any combustion control device, and thus make the vent stream nonhalogenated; the vent stream must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.


(d) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent having a flow rate greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, a HAP concentration greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume, and a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than or equal to 4.0 shall maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 and shall comply with the monitoring of recovery device parameters in § 63.114(b) or (c), the TRE index calculations of § 63.115 of this subpart, and the applicable reporting and recordkeeping provisions of §§ 63.117 and 63.118. Such owner or operator is not subject to any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.


(e) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a TRE index value greater than 4.0 shall maintain a TRE index value greater than 4.0, comply with the provisions for calculation of a TRE index value in § 63.115 and the reporting and recordkeeping provisions in §§ 63.117(b) and 63.118(c) and (h), and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.


(f) Except as specified in paragraph (l) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute shall maintain a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; comply with the Group determination procedures in § 63.115 (a), (b), and (e); and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.117(c), 63.118(d), and 63.118(i); and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.


(g) Except as specified in paragraph (l) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a total organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume shall maintain a total organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume; comply with the Group determination procedures in § 63.115(a), (c), and (e); the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.117(d) and 63.118(e) and (j); and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.


(h) The owner or operator of a process vent complying with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section is not required to perform the group determination described in § 63.115.


(i) *Off-site control or on-site control not owned or operated by the source.* This paragraph (i) applies to gas streams that have the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h) or meet the criteria specified in § 63.107(i); that are transferred for disposal to an on-site control device (or other compliance equipment) not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source generating the gas stream, or to an off-site control device or other compliance equipment; and that have the characteristics (*e.g.,* flow rate, total organic HAP concentration, or TRE index value as applicable) of a Group 1 process vent, determined at the point of transfer.


(i) Comply with the provisions specified in § 63.114(d) for each gas stream prior to transfer.


(ii) Notify the transferee that the gas stream contains organic hazardous air pollutants that are to be treated in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. The notice shall be submitted to the transferee initially and whenever there is a change in the required control.


(2) The owner or operator may not transfer the gas stream unless the transferee has submitted to the EPA a written certification that the transferee will manage and treat any gas stream transferred under this paragraph (i) and received from a source subject to the requirements of this subpart in accordance with the requirements of either §§ 63.113 through 63.118, or § 63.102(b), or subpart D of this part if alternative emission limitations have been granted the transferor in accordance with those provisions. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to EPA and the owner or operator giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in this paragraph (i). Upon expiration of the notice period, the owner or operator may not transfer the gas stream to the transferee. Records retained by the transferee shall be retained in accordance with § 63.103(c).


(3) By providing this written certification to EPA, the certifying entity accepts responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in paragraph (i)(2) of this section with respect to any transfer covered by the written certification. Failure to abide by any of those provisions with respect to such transfers may result in enforcement action by EPA against the certifying entity in accordance with the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by owners or operators of sources.


(4) Written certifications and revocation statements to EPA from the transferees of such gas streams shall be signed by a responsible official of the certifying entity, provide the name and address of the certifying entity, and be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in § 63.13. Such written certifications are not transferable by the transferee.


(j) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11), if the Group 1 or Group 2 process vent contains ethylene oxide such that it is considered to be in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (j)(1) or (2) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified elsewhere in this section.


(1) Reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare; or


(2) Reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a control device that reduces ethylene oxide by greater than or equal to 99.9 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each process vent or to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process. If a combustion device is used, the ethylene oxide concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(k) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), an owner or operator may designate a process vent as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service. The owner or operator must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (k)(1) through (4) of this section for each maintenance vent. Any vent designated as a maintenance vent is only subject to the maintenance vent provisions in this paragraph (k) and the associated reporting and recordkeeping requirements in § 63.118(f)(9) and (m), respectively. The owner or operator does not need to designate a maintenance vent as a Group 1 or Group 2 process vent nor identify maintenance vents in a Notification of Compliance Status report.


(1) Prior to venting to the atmosphere, remove process liquids from the equipment as much as practical and depressurize the equipment to either: A flare meeting the requirements of § 63.108, as applicable, or using any combination of a non-flare combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device meeting the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section until one of the following conditions, as applicable, is met.


(i) The concentration of the vapor in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is less than 10 percent of its lower explosive limit (LEL) and has an outlet concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv hydrogen halide and halogen HAP.


(ii) If there is no ability to measure the concentration of the vapor in the equipment based on the design of the equipment, the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is reduced to 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less. Upon opening the maintenance vent, active purging of the equipment cannot be used until the concentration of the vapors in the maintenance vent (or inside the equipment if the maintenance is a hatch or similar type of opening) is less than 10 percent of its LEL.


(iii) The equipment served by the maintenance vent contains less than 50 pounds of total volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(iv) If, after applying best practices to isolate and purge equipment served by a maintenance vent, none of the applicable criterion in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section can be met prior to installing or removing a blind flange or similar equipment blind, then the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent must be reduced to 2 psig or less before installing or removing the equipment blind. During installation or removal of the equipment blind, active purging of the equipment may be used provided the equipment pressure at the location where purge gas is introduced remains at 2 psig or less.


(2) Except for maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine the concentration or, if applicable, equipment pressure using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.


(3) For maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine mass of VOC in the equipment served by the maintenance vent based on the equipment size and contents after considering any contents drained or purged from the equipment. Equipment size may be determined from equipment design specifications. Equipment contents may be determined using process knowledge.


(4) In addition to complying with the requirements in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section, for process vents in ethylene oxide service, subject to the requirements of § 63.124 that are designated as maintenance vents, owners and operators may not release more than 1.0 tons of ethylene oxide from all maintenance vents combined per any consecutive 12-month period. The owner or operator must keep monthly records of the quantity in tons of ethylene oxide released from each maintenance vent and include a description of the method used to estimate this quantity.


(l) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section no longer apply. Instead, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent with a total organic HAP mass flow rate less than 1.0 pound per hour shall maintain a total organic HAP mass flow rate less than 1.0 pound per hour; comply with the Group determination procedures in § 63.115(g); and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.117(g) and 63.118(n); and is not subject to monitoring or any other provisions of §§ 63.114 through 63.118.



---

[N] [89 FR 43177, May 16, 2024]
















