# ยง 1304.106   Processing of requests.

Upon receipt of a request for information, the Privacy Act Officer will ascertain:


Whether the records identified by the requester exist, and


Whether they are subject to any exemption under ยง 1304.115. If the records exist and are not subject to exemption, the Privacy Officer will provide the information.


(a) *Requests in writing, including those sent by e-mail, via the Web site, or by Fax.* Within five working days of receiving the requests the Privacy Act Officer will acknowledge its receipt and will advise the requester of any additional information that may be needed. Within 15 working days of receiving the request, the Privacy Act Officer will send the requested information or will explain to the requester why additional time is needed for a response.


(b) *Requests in person or by telephone.* Within 15 days of the initial request, the Privacy Act Officer will contact the requestor and arrange an appointment at a mutually agreeable time when the records can be examined. The requester may be accompanied by one person. The requestor should inform the Privacy Act Officer that a second individual will be present and must sign a statement authorizing disclosure of the records to that person. The statement will be kept with the requester's records. At the appointment, the requester will be asked to present identification as stated in ยง 1304.105.


(c) *Excluded information.* If a request is received for information compiled in reasonable anticipation of litigation, the Privacy Officer will inform the requester that the information is not subject to release under the Privacy Act (*see* 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)).




