# § 60.58b   Compliance and performance testing.

(a) The provisions for startup, shutdown, and malfunction are provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. 


(1) Except as provided by § 60.56b, the standards under this subpart apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. Duration of startup, shutdown, or malfunction periods are limited to 3 hours per occurrence, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. During periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, monitoring data shall be dismissed or excluded from compliance calculations, but shall be recorded and reported in accordance with the provisions of 40 CFR 60.59b(d)(7).


(i) The startup period commences when the affected facility begins the continuous burning of municipal solid waste and does not include any warmup period when the affected facility is combusting fossil fuel or other nonmunicipal solid waste fuel, and no municipal solid waste is being fed to the combustor. 


(ii) Continuous burning is the continuous, semicontinuous, or batch feeding of municipal solid waste for purposes of waste disposal, energy production, or providing heat to the combustion system in preparation for waste disposal or energy production. The use of municipal solid waste solely to provide thermal protection of the grate or hearth during the startup period when municipal solid waste is not being fed to the grate is not considered to be continuous burning. 


(iii) For the purpose of compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.53b(a), if a loss of boiler water level control (e.g., boiler waterwall tube failure) or a loss of combustion air control (e.g., loss of combustion air fan, induced draft fan, combustion grate bar failure) is determined to be a malfunction, the duration of the malfunction period is limited to 15 hours per occurrence. During such periods of malfunction, monitoring data shall be dismissed or excluded from compliance calculations, but shall be recorded and reported in accordance with the provisions of § 60.59b(d)(7).


(2) The opacity limits for air curtain incinerators specified in § 60.56b apply at all times as specified under § 60.56b except during periods of malfunction. Duration of malfunction periods are limited to 3 hours per occurrence. 


(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring the oxygen or carbon dioxide content of the flue gas at each location where carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides emissions, or particulate matter (if the owner or operator elects to continuously monitor emissions under paragraph (n) of this section) are monitored and record the output of the system and shall comply with the test procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section.


(1) The span value of the oxygen (or 20 percent carbon dioxide) monitor shall be 25 percent oxygen (or 20 percent carbon dioxide). 


(2) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part. 


(3) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(4) The monitor shall conform to Performance Specification 3 in appendix B of this part except for section 2.3 (relative accuracy requirement). 


(5) The quality assurance procedures of appendix F of this part except for section 5.1.1 (relative accuracy test audit) shall apply to the monitor. 


(6) If carbon dioxide is selected for use in diluent corrections, the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels shall be established during the initial performance test according to the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iv) of this section. This relationship may be reestablished during performance compliance tests. 


(i) The fuel factor equation in Method 3B shall be used to determine the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide at a sampling location. Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration at the same location as the carbon dioxide monitor.


(ii) Samples shall be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour. 


(iii) Each sample shall represent a 1-hour average. 


(iv) A minimum of three runs shall be performed. 


(7) The relationship between carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations that is established in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section shall be submitted to EPA as part of the initial performance test report and, if applicable, as part of the annual test report if the relationship is reestablished during the annual performance test.


(8) During a loss of boiler water level control or loss of combustion air control malfunction period as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, a diluent cap of 14 percent for oxygen or 5 percent for carbon dioxide may be used in the emissions calculations for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(10) of this section, the procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(11) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter and opacity under § 60.52b(a)(1) and (a)(2).


(1) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used to select sampling site and number of traverse points. 


(2) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for gas analysis.


(3) EPA Reference Method 5 shall be used for determining compliance with the particulate matter emission limit. The minimum sample volume shall be 1.7 cubic meters. The probe and filter holder heating systems in the sample train shall be set to provide a gas temperature no greater than 160 °C. An oxygen or carbon dioxide measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 5 run. 


(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the particulate matter emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(5) As specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, all performance tests shall consist of three test runs. The average of the particulate matter emission concentrations from the three test runs is used to determine compliance. 


(6) In accordance with paragraphs (c)(7) and (c)(11) of this section, EPA Reference Method 9 shall be used for determining compliance with the opacity limit except as provided under § 60.11(e) of subpart A of this part. 


(7) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for particulate matter emissions and opacity as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(8) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system for measuring opacity and shall follow the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (c)(8)(iv) of this section. 


(i) The output of the continuous opacity monitoring system shall be recorded on a 6-minute average basis. 


(ii) The continuous opacity monitoring system shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part. 


(iii) The continuous opacity monitoring system shall conform to Performance Specification 1 in appendix B of this part. 


(iv) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of the initial startup of the municipal waste combustor unit, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(9) Following the date that the initial performance test for particulate matter is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part for an affected facility, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for particulate matter on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period).


(10) In place of particulate matter testing with EPA Reference Method 5, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring particulate matter emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously monitor particulate matter emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA Method 5 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(10)(i) through (c)(10)(xiv) of this section. The owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor particulate matter emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA Method 5 is not required to complete performance testing for particulate matter as specified in paragraph (c)(9) of this section and is not required to continuously monitor opacity as specified in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.


(i) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.


(ii) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.


(iii) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.


(iv) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 5 performance tests, whichever is later.


(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the particulate matter emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(vi) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for particulate matter emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the particulate matter emission limit shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section to measure particulate matter and calculating a 24-hour block arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19, section 12.4.1.


(vii) Compliance with the particulate matter emission limit shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily (block) average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data.


(viii) After April 28, 2008, at a minimum, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (c)(10)(viii)(A) and (c)(10)(viii)(B) for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.


(A) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.


(B) Each particulate matter 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.


(ix) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (c)(10)(vii) of this section shall be expressed in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis) and shall be used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.


(x) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (c)(10)(viii) of this section are not met.


(xi) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part.


(xii) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part, particulate matter and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (c)(10)(xii)(A) and (c)(10)(xii)(B) of this section.


(A) For particulate matter, EPA Reference Method 5 shall be used.


(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, as applicable shall be used.


(xiii) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 2 in appendix F of this part.


(xiv) When particulate matter emissions data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or EPA Reference Method 19 to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 90 percent of the hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the hours per calendar year that the affected facility is operated and combusting municipal solid waste.


(11) Following the date that the initial performance test for opacity is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part for an affected facility, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for opacity on an annual basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period) using the test method specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.


(d) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for cadmium, lead, and mercury under § 60.52b(a). 


(1) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(ix) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for cadmium and lead under § 60.52b(a) (3) and (4). 


(i) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used for determining the location and number of sampling points. 


(ii) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for flue gas analysis. 


(iii) The EPA Reference Method 29 shall be used for determining compliance with the cadmium and lead emission limits. 


(iv) An oxygen or carbon dioxide measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 29 test run for cadmium and lead required under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. 


(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the cadmium or lead emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(vi) All performance tests shall consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under representative full load operating conditions. The average of the cadmium or lead emission concentrations from three test runs or more shall be used to determine compliance. 


(vii) Following the date of the initial performance test or the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance test for compliance with the emission limits for cadmium and lead on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period). 


(viii)-(ix) [Reserved]


(2) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(xi) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the mercury emission limit under § 60.52b(a)(5). 


(i) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used for determining the location and number of sampling points. 


(ii) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for flue gas analysis.


(iii) The EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 shall be used to determine the mercury emission concentration. The minimum sample volume when using Method 29 as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 for mercury shall be 1.7 cubic meters.


(iv) An oxygen (or carbon dioxide) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 test run for mercury required under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. 


(v) The percent reduction in the potential mercury emissions (%PHg) is computed using equation 1: 


(vi) All performance tests shall consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under representative full load operating conditions. The average of the mercury emission concentrations or percent reductions from three test runs or more is used to determine compliance. 


(vii) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the mercury emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(viii) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for mercury emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(ix) Following the date that the initial performance test for mercury is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance test for mercury emissions on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months from the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period). 


(x) [Reserved]


(xi) The owner or operator of an affected facility where activated carbon injection is used to comply with the mercury emission limit shall follow the procedures specified in paragraph (m) of this section for measuring and calculating carbon usage. 


(3) In place of cadmium and lead testing with EPA Reference Method 29 as an alternative ASTM D6784-02, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring cadmium and lead emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system according to the provisions of paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.


(4) In place of mercury testing with EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system or a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring mercury emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system according to the provisions of paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section, or paragraphs (p) and (q) of this section, as appropriate. The owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor mercury in place of mercury testing with EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 is not required to complete performance testing for mercury as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ix) of this section.


(e) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(14) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit under § 60.52b(b)(1).


(1) The EPA Reference Method 19, section 4.3, shall be used to calculate the daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission concentration. 


(2) The EPA Reference Method 19, section 5.4, shall be used to determine the daily geometric average percent reduction in the potential sulfur dioxide emission concentration. 


(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for sulfur dioxide emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit (concentration or percent reduction) shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section to measure sulfur dioxide and calculating a 24-hour daily geometric average emission concentration or a 24-hour daily geometric average percent reduction using EPA Reference Method 19, sections 4.3 and 5.4, as applicable.


(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring sulfur dioxide emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system.


(6) Following the date that the initial performance test for sulfur dioxide is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily geometric average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data if compliance is based on an emission concentration, or continuous emission monitoring system inlet and outlet data if compliance is based on a percent reduction.


(7) At a minimum, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) and (e)(7)(ii) for 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating days per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste. 


(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average. 


(ii) Each sulfur dioxide 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.


(8) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (e)(6) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily geometric average emission concentrations and daily geometric average emission percent reductions. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part. 


(9) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations and percent reductions even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (e)(7) of this section are not met. 


(10) The procedures under § 60.13 of subpart A of this part shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous emission monitoring system. 


(11) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the municipal waste combustor as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(12) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of this part. For sources that have actual inlet emissions less than 100 parts per million dry volume, the relative accuracy criterion for inlet sulfur dioxide continuous emission monitoring systems should be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the reference method test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 5 parts per million dry volume absolute value of the mean difference between the reference method and the continuous emission monitoring systems, whichever is greater.


(i) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of this part, sulfur dioxide and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (e)(12)(i)(A) and (e)(12)(i)(B) of this section. 


(A) For sulfur dioxide, EPA Reference Method 6, 6A, or 6C, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, shall be used.


(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used. 


(ii) The span value of the continuous emissions monitoring system at the inlet to the sulfur dioxide control device shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit. The span value of the continuous emission monitoring system at the outlet of the sulfur dioxide control device shall be 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit. 


(13) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part. 


(14) When sulfur dioxide emissions data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and/or zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA or EPA Reference Method 19 to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 90 percent of the hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the hours per calendar year that the affected facility is operated and combusting municipal solid waste.


(f) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the hydrogen chloride emission limit under § 60.52b(b)(2). 


(1) The EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A, as applicable, shall be used to determine the hydrogen chloride emission concentration. The minimum sampling time shall be 1 hour. 


(2) An oxygen (or carbon dioxide) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each test run for hydrogen chloride required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. 


(3) The percent reduction in potential hydrogen chloride emissions (% P_HCl_) is computed using equation 2: 


(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the hydrogen chloride emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(5) As specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, all performance tests shall consist of three test runs. The average of the hydrogen chloride emission concentrations or percent reductions from the three test runs is used to determine compliance. 


(6) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for hydrogen chloride as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(7) Following the date that the initial performance test for hydrogen chloride is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance test for hydrogen chloride emissions on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous performance test). 


(8) In place of hydrogen chloride testing with EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring hydrogen chloride emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system according to the provisions of paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.


(g) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(9) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the limits for dioxin/furan emissions under § 60.52b(c). 


(1) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used for determining the location and number of sampling points. 


(2) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for flue gas analysis. 


(3) The EPA Reference Method 23 shall be used for determining the dioxin/furan emission concentration. 


(i) The minimum sample time shall be 4 hours per test run. 


(ii) An oxygen (or carbon dioxide) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 23 test run for dioxins/furans. 


(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for dioxin/furan emissions in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section, as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(5) Following the date that the initial performance test for dioxins/furans is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct performance tests for dioxin/furan emissions in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section, according to one of the schedules specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (g)(5)(iii) of this section. 


(i) For affected facilities, performance tests shall be conducted on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period).


(ii) For the purpose of evaluating system performance to establish new operating parameter levels, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions, the owner or operator of an affected facility that qualifies for the performance testing schedule specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, may test one unit for dioxin/furan and apply the dioxin/furan operating parameters to similarly designed and equipped units on site by meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(ii)(A) through (g)(5)(ii)(D) of this section.


(A) Follow the testing schedule established in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section. For example, each year a different affected facility at the municipal waste combustor plant shall be tested, and the affected facilities at the plant shall be tested in sequence (e.g., unit 1, unit 2, unit 3, as applicable).


(B) Upon meeting the requirements in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section for one affected facility, the owner or operator may elect to apply the average carbon mass feed rate and associated carbon injection system operating parameter levels for dioxin/furan as established in paragraph (m) of this section to similarly designed and equipped units on site.


(C) Upon testing each subsequent unit in accordance with the testing schedule established in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the dioxin/furan and mercury emissions of the subsequent unit shall not exceed the dioxin/furan and mercury emissions measured in the most recent test of that unit prior to the revised operating parameter levels.


(D) The owner or operator of an affected facility that selects to follow the performance testing schedule specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section and apply the carbon injection system operating parameters to similarly designed and equipped units on site shall follow the procedures specified in § 60.59b(g)(4) for reporting.


(iii) Where all performance tests over a 2-year period indicate that dioxin/furan emissions are less than or equal to 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass) for all affected facilities located within a municipal waste combustor plant, the owner or operator of the municipal waste combustor plant may elect to conduct annual performance tests for one affected facility (i.e., unit) per year at the municipal waste combustor plant. At a minimum, a performance test for dioxin/furan emissions shall be conducted on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period) for one affected facility at the municipal waste combustor plant. Each year a different affected facility at the municipal waste combustor plant shall be tested, and the affected facilities at the plant shall be tested in sequence (e.g., unit 1, unit 2, unit 3, as applicable). If each annual performance test continues to indicate a dioxin/furan emission level less than or equal to 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), the owner or operator may continue conducting a performance test on only one affected facility per calendar year. If any annual performance test indicates either a dioxin/furan emission level greater than 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), performance tests shall thereafter be conducted annually on all affected facilities at the plant until and unless all annual performance tests for all affected facilities at the plant over a 2-year period indicate a dioxin/furan emission level less than or equal to 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass). 


(6) The owner or operator of an affected facility that selects to follow the performance testing schedule specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section shall follow the procedures specified in § 60.59b(g)(4) for reporting the selection of this schedule. 


(7) The owner or operator of an affected facility where activated carbon is used shall follow the procedures specified in paragraph (m) of this section for measuring and calculating the carbon usage rate. 


(8) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(9) As specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, all performance tests shall consist of three test runs. The average of the dioxin/furan emission concentrations from the three test runs is used to determine compliance. 


(10) In place of dioxin/furan sampling and testing with EPA Reference Method 23, an owner or operator may elect to sample dioxin/furan by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring dioxin/furan emissions discharged to the atmosphere, recording the output of the system, and analyzing the sample using EPA Method 23. This option to use a continuous automated sampling system takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to dioxin/furan from monitors is published in the _Federal Register_ or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously sample dioxin/furan emissions instead of sampling and testing using EPA Method 23 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (p) and (q) of this section.


(h) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(12) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit for affected facilities under § 60.52b(d). 


(1) The EPA Reference Method 19, section 4.1, shall be used for determining the daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission concentration. 


(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides limit under § 60.52b(d) shall conduct an initial performance test for nitrogen oxides as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (h)(4) of this section for measuring nitrogen oxides and calculating a 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19, section 4.1. 


(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides emission limit under § 60.52b(d) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring nitrogen oxides discharged to the atmosphere, and record the output of the system. 


(5) Following the date that the initial performance test for nitrogen oxides is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, compliance with the emission limit for nitrogen oxides required under § 60.52b(d) shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily arithmetic average of the hourly emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data. 


(6) At a minimum, valid continuous emission monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (h)(6)(ii) of this section for 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and for 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste. 


(i) At least 2 data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average. 


(ii) Each nitrogen oxides 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data. 


(7) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required by paragraph (h)(5) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million by volume (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part. 


(8) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data must be used in calculating emission averages even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (h)(6) of this section are not met. 


(9) The procedures under § 60.13 of subpart A of this part shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous emission monitoring system. The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the municipal waste combustor unit, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(10) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall operate the continuous emission monitoring system according to Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of this part and shall follow the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (h)(10)(i) and (h)(10)(ii) of this section. 


(i) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part, nitrogen oxides and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (h)(10)(i)(A) and (h)(10)(i)(B) of this section. 


(A) For nitrogen oxides, EPA Reference Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E shall be used. 


(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used. 


(ii) The span value of the continuous emission monitoring system shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential nitrogen oxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit. 


(11) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part. 


(12) When nitrogen oxides continuous emission data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA or EPA Reference Method 19 to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 90 percent of the hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the hours per calendar year the unit is operated and combusting municipal solid waste.


(i) The procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(12) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the operating requirements under § 60.53b. 


(1) Compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.53b(a) shall be determined using a 4-hour block arithmetic average for all types of affected facilities except mass burn rotary waterwall municipal waste combustors and refuse-derived fuel stokers. 


(2) For affected mass burn rotary waterwall municipal waste combustors and refuse-derived fuel stokers, compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.53b(a) shall be determined using a 24-hour daily arithmetic average. 


(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring carbon monoxide at the combustor outlet and record the output of the system and shall follow the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (i)(3)(iii) of this section. 


(i) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to Performance Specification 4A in appendix B of this part. 


(ii) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 4A in appendix B of this part, carbon monoxide and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) and (i)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. For affected facilities subject to the 100 parts per million dry volume carbon monoxide standard, the relative accuracy criterion of 5 parts per million dry volume is calculated as the absolute value of the mean difference between the reference method and continuous emission monitoring systems. 


(A) For carbon monoxide, EPA Reference Method 10, 10A, or 10B shall be used. 


(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part), as applicable, shall be used. 


(iii) The span value of the continuous emission monitoring system shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential carbon monoxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit. 


(4) The 4-hour block and 24-hour daily arithmetic averages specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section shall be calculated from 1-hour arithmetic averages expressed in parts per million by volume corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis). The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points generated by the continuous emission monitoring system. At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average. 


(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. 


(6) The procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) through (i)(6)(v) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with load level requirements under § 60.53b(b). 


(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility with steam generation capability shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a steam flow meter or a feedwater flow meter; measure steam (or feedwater) flow in kilograms per hour (or pounds per hour) on a continuous basis; and record the output of the monitor. Steam (or feedwater) flow shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages. 


(ii) The method included in the “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Power Test Codes: Test Code for Steam Generating Units, Power Test Code 4.1—1964 (R1991)” section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part) shall be used for calculating the steam (or feedwater) flow required under paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section. The recommendations in “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Interim Supplement 19.5 on Instruments and Apparatus: Application, partII of Fluid Meters, 6th edition (1971),” chapter 4 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part) shall be followed for design, construction, installation, calibration, and use of nozzles and orifices except as specified in (i)(6)(iii) of this section. 


(iii) Measurement devices such as flow nozzles and orifices are not required to be recalibrated after they are installed. 


(iv) All signal conversion elements associated with steam (or feedwater flow) measurements must be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions before each dioxin/furan performance test, and at least once per year. 


(7) To determine compliance with the maximum particulate matter control device temperature requirements under § 60.53b(c), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring on a continuous basis the temperature of the flue gas stream at the inlet to each particulate matter control device utilized by the affected facility. Temperature shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages. 


(8) The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load shall be determined during the initial performance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit specified in § 60.52b(c) is achieved. The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load shall be the highest 4-hour arithmetic average load achieved during four consecutive hours during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit was achieved. If a subsequent dioxin/furan performance test is being performed on only one affected facility at the MWC plant, as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply the same maximum municipal waste combustor unit load from the tested facility for all the similarly designed and operated affected facilities at the MWC plant.


(9) For each particulate matter control device employed at the affected facility, the maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be determined during the initial performance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit specified in § 60.52b(c) is achieved. The maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be the highest 4-hour arithmetic average temperature achieved at the particulate matter control device inlet during four consecutive hours during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan limit was achieved. If a subsequent dioxin/furan performance test is being performed on only one affected facility at the MWC plant, as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply the same maximum particulate matter control device temperature from the tested facility for all the similarly designed and operated affected facilities at the MWC plant.


(10) At a minimum, valid continuous emission monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (i)(10)(i) and (i)(10)(ii) of this section for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste. 


(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average. 


(ii) At a minimum, each carbon monoxide 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data. 


(11) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data must be used in calculating the parameters specified under paragraph (i) of this section even if the minimum data requirements of paragraph (i)(10) of this section are not met. When carbon monoxide continuous emission data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA or EPA Reference Method 10 to provide, as necessary, the minimum valid emission data. 


(12) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the carbon monoxide continuous emission monitoring system shall be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part. 


(j) The procedures specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section shall be used for calculating municipal waste combustor unit capacity as defined under § 60.51b. 


(1) For municipal waste combustor units capable of combusting municipal solid waste continuously for a 24-hour period, municipal waste combustor unit capacity shall be calculated based on 24 hours of operation at the maximum charging rate. The maximum charging rate shall be determined as specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section as applicable. 


(i) For combustors that are designed based on heat capacity, the maximum charging rate shall be calculated based on the maximum design heat input capacity of the unit and a heating value of 12,800 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing refuse-derived fuel and a heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing municipal solid waste that is not refuse-derived fuel. 


(ii) For combustors that are not designed based on heat capacity, the maximum charging rate shall be the maximum design charging rate. 


(2) For batch feed municipal waste combustor units, municipal waste combustor unit capacity shall be calculated as the maximum design amount of municipal solid waste that can be charged per batch multiplied by the maximum number of batches that could be processed in a 24-hour period. The maximum number of batches that could be processed in a 24-hour period is calculated as 24 hours divided by the design number of hours required to process one batch of municipal solid waste, and may include fractional batches (e.g., if one batch requires 16 hours, then 24/16, or 1.5 batches, could be combusted in a 24-hour period). For batch combustors that are designed based on heat capacity, the design heating value of 12,800 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing refuse-derived fuel and a heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing municipal solid waste that is not refuse-derived fuel shall be used in calculating the municipal waste combustor unit capacity in megagrams per day of municipal solid waste. 


(k) The procedures specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(4) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the fugitive ash emission limit under § 60.55b. 


(1) The EPA Reference Method 22 shall be used for determining compliance with the fugitive ash emission limit under § 60.55b. The minimum observation time shall be a series of three 1-hour observations. The observation period shall include times when the facility is transferring ash from the municipal waste combustor unit to the area where ash is stored or loaded into containers or trucks. 


(2) The average duration of visible emissions per hour shall be calculated from the three 1-hour observations. The average shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.55b. 


(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for fugitive ash emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(4) Following the date that the initial performance test for fugitive ash emissions is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part for an affected facility, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for fugitive ash emissions on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous performance test). 


(l) The procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(3) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the opacity limit for air curtain incinerators under § 60.56b. 


(1) The EPA Reference Method 9 shall be used for determining compliance with the opacity limit. 


(2) The owner or operator of the air curtain incinerator shall conduct an initial performance test for opacity as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. 


(3) Following the date that the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of the air curtain incinerator shall conduct a performance test for opacity on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous performance test). 


(m) The owner or operator of an affected facility where activated carbon injection is used to comply with the mercury emission limit under § 60.52b(a)(5), and/or the dioxin/furan emission limits under § 60.52(b)(c), or the dioxin/furan emission level specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(4) of this section.


(1) During the performance tests for dioxins/furans and mercury, as applicable, the owner or operator shall estimate an average carbon mass feed rate based on carbon injection system operating parameters such as the screw feeder speed, hopper volume, hopper refill frequency, or other parameters appropriate to the feed system being employed, as specified in paragraphs (m)(1)(i) and (m)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(i) An average carbon mass feed rate in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour shall be estimated during the initial performance test for mercury emissions and each subsequent performance test for mercury emissions. 


(ii) An average carbon mass feed rate in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour shall be estimated during the initial performance test for dioxin/furan emissions and each subsequent performance test for dioxin/furan emissions. If a subsequent dioxin/furan performance test is being performed on only one affected facility at the MWC plant, as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply the same estimated average carbon mass feed rate from the tested facility for all the similarly designed and operated affected facilities at the MWC plant.


(2) During operation of the affected facility, the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of the carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder setting) shall be averaged over a block 8-hour period, and the 8-hour block average must equal or exceed the level(s) documented during the performance tests specified under paragraphs (m)(1)(i) and (m)(1)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (m)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) During the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test and the 2 weeks preceding the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test, no limit is applicable for average mass carbon feed rate if the provisions of paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section are met.


(ii) The limit for average mass carbon feed rate may be waived in accordance with permission granted by the Administrator for the purpose of evaluating system performance, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions. 


(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall estimate the total carbon usage of the plant (kilograms or pounds) for each calendar quarter by two independent methods, according to the procedures in paragraphs (m)(3)(i) and (m)(3)(ii) of this section. 


(i) The weight of carbon delivered to the plant. 


(ii) Estimate the average carbon mass feed rate in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour for each hour of operation for each affected facility based on the parameters specified under paragraph (m)(1) of this section, and sum the results for all affected facilities at the plant for the total number of hours of operation during the calendar quarter. 


(4) Pneumatic injection pressure or other carbon injection system operational indicator shall be used to provide additional verification of proper carbon injection system operation. The operational indicator shall provide an instantaneous visual and/or audible alarm to alert the operator of a potential interruption in the carbon feed that would not normally be indicated by direct monitoring of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., continuous weight loss feeder) or monitoring of the carbon system operating parameter(s) that are the indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed). The carbon injection system operational indicator used to provide additional verification of carbon injection system operation, including basis for selecting the indicator and operator response to the indicator alarm, shall be included in section (e)(6) of the site-specific operating manual required under § 60.54b(e) of this subpart.


(n) In place of periodic manual testing of mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride with EPA Reference Method 26, 26A, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The option to use a continuous emission monitoring system for mercury takes effect on the date of approval of the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraph (n)(13) and (o) of this section. The option to use a continuous emission monitoring system for cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride monitor is published in the _Federal Register_ or the date of approval of the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraphs (n)(13) and (o) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously monitor emissions instead of conducting manual performance testing shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(13) of this section.


(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.


(2) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.


(3) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.


(4) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 26, 26A, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable) performance tests, whichever is later.


(5) The owner or operator may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(6) The owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test for emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (n) of this section to measure emissions and calculating a 24-hour block arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19, section 12.4.1.


(7) Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily (block) average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data.


(8) Beginning on April 28, 2008 for mercury and on the date two years after final performance specifications for cadmium, lead or hydrogen chloride monitors are published in the _Federal Register_ or the date two years after approval of a site-specific monitoring plan, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (n)(8)(i) and (n)(8)(ii) of this section for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.


(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.


(ii) Each 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.


(9) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (n)(7) of this section shall be expressed in micrograms per dry standard cubic meter for mercury, cadmium, lead and parts per million dry volume for hydrogen chloride corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis) and shall be used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic (block) average emission concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.


(10) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (n)(8) of this section are not met.


(11) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to the performance specifications in paragraphs (n)(11)(i) through (n)(11)(iii) of this section or the approved site-specific monitoring plan.


(i) For mercury, Performance Specification 12A in appendix B of this part.


(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]


(12) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by the performance specifications in paragraph (n)(11) of this section, mercury, cadmium, lead, hydrogen chloride, and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (n)(12)(i) through (n)(12)(iii) of this section.


(i) For mercury, cadmium, and lead, EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 shall be used.


(ii) For hydrogen chloride, EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A shall be used.


(iii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, as applicable shall be used.


(13) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride must develop and implement a site-specific monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (o) of this section. The owner or operator who relies on a performance specification may refer to that document in addressing applicable procedures and criteria.


(14) When emissions data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, parametric monitoring data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA.


(o) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride must develop and submit for approval by EPA, a site-specific mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride monitoring plan that addresses the elements and requirements in paragraphs (o)(1) through (o)(7) of this section.


(1) Installation of the continuous emission monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (*e.g.*, on or downstream of the last control device).


(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system.


(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*e.g.*, calibrations).


(4) Provisions for periods when the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control as described in paragraphs (o)(4)(i) through (o)(4)(iii) of this section.


(i) A continuous emission monitoring system is out of control if either of the conditions in paragraphs (o)(4)(i)(A) or (o)(4)(ii)(B) of this section are met.


(A) The zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), or high-level calibration drift exceeds two times the applicable calibration drift specification in the applicable performance specification or in the relevant standard; or


(B) The continuous emission monitoring system fails a performance test audit (*e.g.*, cylinder gas audit), relative accuracy audit, relative accuracy test audit, or linearity test audit.


(ii) When the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control as defined in paragraph (o)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are below the applicable limits. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour the owner or operator conducts a performance check (*e.g.*, calibration drift) that indicates an exceedance of the performance requirements established under this part. The end of the out-of-control period is the hour following the completion of corrective action and successful demonstration that the system is within the allowable limits. During the period the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control, recorded data shall not be used in data averages and calculations or to meet any data availability requirements in paragraph (n)(8) of this section.


(iii) The owner or operator of a continuous emission monitoring system that is out of control as defined in paragraph (o)(4) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.59b(g) or (h).


(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures for continuous emission monitoring systems as described in paragraphs (o)(5)(i) and (o)(5)(ii) of this section.


(i) Develop and implement a continuous emission monitoring system quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to EPA for approval, upon request, a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system performance evaluation required in paragraph (o)(5)(ii) of this section. In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the operations described in paragraphs (o)(7)(i)(A) through (o)(7)(i)(F) of this section.


(A) Initial and any subsequent calibration of the continuous emission monitoring system;


(B) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the continuous emission monitoring system;


(C) Preventive maintenance of the continuous emission monitoring system, including spare parts inventory;


(D) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;


(E) Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods; and


(F) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning continuous emission monitoring system.


(ii) The performance evaluation test plan shall include the evaluation program objectives, an evaluation program summary, the performance evaluation schedule, data quality objectives, and both an internal and external quality assurance program. Data quality objectives are the pre-evaluation expectations of precision, accuracy, and completeness of data. The internal quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, the activities planned by routine operators and analysts to provide an assessment of continuous emission monitoring system performance, for example, plans for relative accuracy testing using the appropriate reference method in § 60.58b(n)(12) of this section. The external quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, systems audits that include the opportunity for on-site evaluation by the Administrator of instrument calibration, data validation, sample logging, and documentation of quality control data and field maintenance activities.


(6) Conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous emission monitoring system in accordance with the site-specific monitoring plan.


(7) Operate and maintain the continuous emission monitoring system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.


(p) In place of periodic manual testing of dioxin/furan or mercury with EPA Reference Method 23, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for determining emissions discharged to the atmosphere. This option takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to such continuous automated sampling systems is published in the _Federal Register_ or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraphs (p)(10) and (q) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to use a continuous automated sampling system to determine emissions instead of conducting manual performance testing shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the sampling system and conduct analyses in compliance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (p)(1) through (p)(12) of this section.


(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.


(2) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.


(3) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by manual performance testing using Method 23, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), whichever is later.


(4) The owner or operator may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(5) The owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test for emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined by using the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (p) of this section to collect integrated samples and analyze emissions for the time period specified in paragraphs (p)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) For dioxin/furan, the continuous automated sampling system shall collect an integrated sample over each 2-week period. The collected sample shall be analyzed using Method 23.


(ii) For mercury, the continuous automated sampling system shall collect an integrated sample over each 24-hour daily period and the sample shall be analyzed according to the applicable final performance specification or the approved site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (q) of this section.


(6) Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined based on 2-week emission concentrations for dioxin/furan and on the 24-hour daily emission concentrations for mercury using samples collected at the system outlet. The emission concentrations shall be expressed in nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass) for dioxin/furan and micrograms per dry standard cubic meter for mercury, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).


(7) Beginning on the date two years after the respective final performance specification for continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury is published in the _Federal Register_ or two years after approval of a site-specific monitoring plan, the continuous automated sampling system must be operated and collect emissions for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.


(8) All valid data shall be used in calculating emission concentrations.


(9) The continuous automated sampling system shall be operated according to the final performance specification in paragraphs (p)(9)(i) or (p)(9)(ii) of this section or the approved site-specific monitoring plan.


(i)-(ii) [Reserved]


(10) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury must develop and implement a site-specific monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (q) of this section. The owner or operator who relies on a performance specification may refer to that document in addressing applicable procedures and criteria.


(11) When emissions data are not obtained because of continuous automated sampling system breakdowns, repairs, quality assurance checks, or adjustments, parametric monitoring data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA.


(q) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury must develop and submit for approval by EPA, a site-specific monitoring plan that has sufficient detail to assure the validity of the continuous automated sampling system data and that addresses the elements and requirements in paragraphs (q)(1) through (q)(7) of this section.


(1) Installation of the continuous automated sampling system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (*e.g.*, on or downstream of the last control device).


(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration analytical method, and the data collection system.


(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria.


(4) Provisions for periods when the continuous automated sampling system is malfunctioning or is out of control as described in paragraphs (q)(4)(i) through (q)(4)(iii) of this section.


(i) The site-specific monitoring plan shall identify criteria for determining that the continuous automated sampling system is out of control. This shall include periods when the sampling system is not collecting a representative sample or is malfunctioning, or when the analytical method does not meet site-specific quality criteria established in paragraph (q)(5) of this section.


(ii) When the continuous automated sampling system is out of control as defined in paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are within the applicable limits. The out-of-control period includes all hours that the sampling system was not collecting a representative sample or was malfunctioning, or hours represented by a sample for which the analysis did not meet the relevant quality criteria. Emissions data obtained during an out-of-control period shall not be used in determining compliance with the emission limits or to meet any data availability requirements in paragraph (p)(8) of this section.


(iii) The owner or operator of a continuous automated sampling system that is out of control as defined in paragraph (q)(4) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.59b(g) or (h).


(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures for continuous automated sampling systems as described in paragraphs (q)(5)(i) and (q)(5)(ii) of this section.


(i) Develop and implement a continuous automated sampling system and analysis quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to EPA for approval, upon request, a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous automated sampling system performance evaluation required in paragraph (q)(5)(ii) of this section. In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the operations described in paragraphs (q)(7)(i)(A) through (q)(7)(i)(F) of this section.


(A) Correct placement, installation of the continuous automated sampling system such that the system is collecting a representative sample of gas;


(B) Initial and subsequent calibration of flow such that the sample collection rate of the continuous automated sampling system is known and verifiable;


(C) Procedures to assure representative (*e.g.*, proportional or isokinetic) sampling;


(D) Preventive maintenance of the continuous automated sampling system, including spare parts inventory and procedures for cleaning equipment, replacing sample collection media, or other servicing at the end of each sample collection period;


(E) Data recording and reporting, including an automated indicator and recording device to show when the continuous automated monitoring system is operating and collecting data and when it is not collecting data;


(F) Accuracy audit procedures for analytical methods; and


(G) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning continuous automated sampling system.


(ii) The performance evaluation test plan shall include the evaluation program objectives, an evaluation program summary, the performance evaluation schedule, data quality objectives, and both an internal and external quality assurance program. Data quality objectives are the pre-evaluation expectations of precision, accuracy, and completeness of data. The internal quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, the activities planned by routine operators and analysts to provide an assessment of continuous automated sampling system performance, for example, plans for relative accuracy testing using the appropriate reference method in 60.58b(p)(3), and an assessment of quality of analysis results. The external quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, systems audits that include the opportunity for on-site evaluation by the Administrator of instrument calibration, data validation, sample logging, and documentation of quality control data and field maintenance activities.


(6) Conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous automated sampling system in accordance with the site-specific monitoring plan.


(7) Operate and maintain the continuous automated sampling system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.



---

[N] [60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000; 66 FR 57827, Nov. 16, 2001; 71 FR 27337, May 10, 2006]




