# ยง 784.3   Definitions.

The definitions in this section shall apply to the 2004 Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Payment Program and this part.


*Agricultural Marketing Service or AMS* means the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department.


*Application* means the Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Payment Program Application.


*Application period* means the date established by the Deputy Administrator for producers to apply for program benefits. Unless otherwise announced, that period will end January 13, 2005.


*Base period* means the period from August 1, 2003, through July 31, 2004, during and after which ewe lambs must meet all qualifying eligibility criteria.


*Ewe lamb* means a female lamb no more than 18 months of age that has not produced an offspring.


*Farm Service Agency or FSA* means the Farm Service Agency of the Department.


*Foot rot* means an infectious, contagious disease of sheep that causes severe lameness and economic loss from decreased flock production.


*Lambing cycle* means the period of time from birth to weaning.


*Parrot mouth* means a genetic defect resulting in the failure of the incisor teeth to meet the dental pad correctly.


*Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, estate, trust, association, cooperative, or other business enterprise or other legal entity who is, or whose members are, a citizen or citizens of, or legal resident alien or aliens in the United States.


*Sheep and lamb operation* means any self-contained, separate enterprise operated as an independent unit exclusively within the United States in which a person or group of persons raise sheep and/or lambs.


*United States* means the 50 States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.




