# ยง 79.3   Applicability.

(a) Except as otherwise stated in this section, the regulations in this part apply to collections, as defined in ยง 79.4 of this part, that are excavated or removed under the authority of the Antiquities Act (54 U.S.C. 320301-320303), the Reservoir Salvage Act (54 U.S.C. 312501-312508), section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 306101-306114) or the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm). Such collections generally include those that are the result of a prehistoric or historic resource survey, excavation or other study conducted in connection with a Federal action, assistance, license, or permit. Such collections include those that are owned by the United States and for which a Federal agency has practical management authority, either directly or indirectly, as a result of that ownership; and those collections that are not owned by the United States but that are managed or controlled by a Federal agency pursuant to the laws cited in this paragraph (a).

(b) The regulations in this part apply to preexisting and new collections that meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. However, the regulations shall not be applied in a manner that would supersede or breach material terms and conditions in any contract, grant, license, permit, memorandum, or agreement entered into by or on behalf of a Federal agency prior to the effective date of this regulation.


(c) Collections that are excavated or removed pursuant to the Antiquities Act (16 U.S.C. 431-433) remain subject to that Act, the Act's implementing rule (43 CFR part 3), and the terms and conditions of the pertinent Antiquities Act permit or other approval.


(d) Collections that are excavated or removed pursuant to the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470*aa-mm*) remain subject to that Act, the Act's implementing rules (43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229), and the terms and conditions of the pertinent Archaeological Resources Protection Act permit or other approval.


(e) Any repository that is providing curatorial services for a collection subject to the regulations in this part must possess the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services, as set forth in ยง 79.9 of this part, to safeguard and preserve the associated records and any material remains that are deposited in the repository.



---

[N] [55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990, as amended at 87 FR 22457, Apr. 15, 2022]




