# § 63.7800   What are my operation and maintenance requirements?

(a) You must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the requirements in § 63.7810(d).




(b) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written operation and maintenance plan for each capture system or control device subject to an operating limit in § 63.7790(b). Each plan must address the elements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section.




(1) Monthly inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the total capture system (*e.g.,* pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection must include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (*e.g.,* presence of holes in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or accumulated dust in the ductwork, and fan erosion). The operation and maintenance plan also must include requirements to repair any defect or deficiency in the capture system before the next scheduled inspection.


(2) Preventative maintenance for each control device, including a preventative maintenance schedule that is consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.


(3) Operating limits for each capture system applied to emissions from a sinter plant discharge end or blast furnace casthouse, or to secondary emissions from a BOPF. You must establish the operating limits according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Select operating limit parameters appropriate for the capture system design that are representative and reliable indicators of the performance of the capture system. At a minimum, you must use appropriate operating limit parameters that indicate the level of the ventilation draft and the damper position settings for the capture system when operating to collect emissions, including revised settings for seasonal variations. Appropriate operating limit parameters for ventilation draft include, but are not limited to, volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood, total volumetric flow rate at the inlet to the control device to which the capture system is vented, fan motor amperage, or static pressure.


(ii) For each operating limit parameter selected in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, designate the value or setting for the parameter at which the capture system operates during the process operation. If your operation allows for more than one process to be operating simultaneously, designate the value or setting for the parameter at which the capture system operates during each possible configuration that you may operate.


(iii) Include documentation in your plan to support your selection of the operating limits established for the capture system. This documentation must include a description of the capture system design, a description of the capture system operating during production, a description of each selected operating limit parameter, a rationale for why you chose the parameter, a description of the method used to monitor the parameter according to the requirements of § 63.7830(a), and the data used to set the value or setting for the parameter for each of your process configurations.


(4) Corrective action procedures for baghouses equipped with bag leak detection systems or continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS). In the event a bag leak detection system alarm is triggered or emissions from a baghouse equipped with a COMS exceed an hourly average opacity of 5 percent, you must initiate corrective action to determine the cause of the alarm within 1 hour of the alarm, initiate corrective action to correct the cause of the problem within 24 hours of the alarm, and complete the corrective action as soon as practicable. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to: 


(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in emissions.


(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.


(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device.


(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.


(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repair the bag leak detection system.


(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.


(5) Corrective action procedures for venturi scrubbers equipped with continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS). In the event a venturi scrubber exceeds the operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(2), you must take corrective actions consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.7831(a).


(6) Corrective action procedures for electrostatic precipitators equipped with COMS. In the event an electrostatic precipitator exceeds the operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(3), you must take corrective actions consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.7831(a). 


(7) Procedures for determining and recording the daily sinter plant production rate in tons per hour.




(8) Small Bell repair or replacement period, in weeks, or mass of material throughput, in tons, and the specific begin date and end date for the chosen repair or replacement period or throughput over which there were no visible emissions observed.


(9) Building drawings of the BF Casthouse and BOPF shop that show and list by number the openings, including doors and vents, that are part of the original design of the building.





---

[N] [68 FR 27663, May 20, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 39585, July 13, 2006; 85 FR 42116, July 13, 2020; 89 FR 23323, Apr. 3, 2024]




