# § 180.473   Glufosinate; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of glufosinate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 1 to paragraph (a)(1). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 1 to paragraph (a)(1) is to be determined by measuring the sum of glufosinate (2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid) and its metabolites, 2-(acetylamino)-4-(hydroxymethyl phosphinyl) butanoic acid, and 3-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) propanoic acid, expressed as 2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid equivalents.


(2) Tolerances are established for residues of glufosinate-P, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 2 to paragraph (a)(2), as a result of applications of glufosinate-P or glufosinate-P-ammonium to those commodities. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 2 to paragraph (a)(2) is to be determined by measuring the sum of glufosinate (2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) butanoic acid) and its metabolites, 2-(acetylamino)-4-(hydroxymethyl phosphinyl) butanoic acid, and 3-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) propanoic acid, expressed as 2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid equivalents.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* Tolerances with regional registrations are established for residues of glufosinate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 3 to paragraph (c). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 3 to paragraph (c) is to be determined by measuring the sum of glufosinate, (2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid) and its metabolites, 2-(acetylamino)-4-(hydroxymethyl phosphinyl) butanoic acid, and 3-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) propanoic acid, expressed as 2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid equivalents.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* (1) Tolerances are established for indirect or inadvertent residues of glufosinate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 4 to paragraph (d)(1), as a result of the application of glufosinate to crops listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 4 to paragraph (d)(1) is to be determined by measuring the sum of glufosinate (2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) butanoic acid) and its metabolite, 3-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) propanoic acid, expressed as 2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid equivalents.


(2) Tolerances are established for indirect or inadvertent residues of glufosinate-P, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 5 to paragraph (d)(2), as a result of the application of glufosinate-P or glufosinate-P-ammonium to crops listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 5 to paragraph (d)(2) is to be determined by measuring the sum of glufosinate (2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) butanoic acid) and its metabolite, 3-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl) propanoic acid, expressed as 2-amino-4-(hydroxymethylphosphinyl)butanoic acid equivalents.”



---

[N] [68 FR 55849, Sept. 29, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 25945, May 3, 2006; 72 FR 72625, Dec. 21, 2007; 76 FR 23497, Apr. 27, 2011; 77 FR 59113, Sept. 26, 2012; 80 FR 72599, Nov. 20, 2015; 84 FR 21708, May 15, 2019; 87 FR 57626, Sept. 21, 2022; 88 FR 39780, June 20, 2023; 89 FR 85865, Oct. 29, 2024]




