# § 59a.16   What other conditions apply?

Although the Secretary may approve exceptions which are consistent with program purposes, in addition to other terms, conditions, and assurances required by law, each grantee must meet the following requirements:


(a) *Use of funds.* Any funds granted under this subpart shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds were granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this subpart, the terms and conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles in 45 CFR part 75, subpart E. 


(b) *Library resources*—(1) *Provision of services.* The grantee shall modify and increase its library resources to provide supportive services to other health-sciences informational activities.


(2) *Access to and fees for services.* The grantee shall provide free loan services to qualified users or, in lieu of loans, make available photoduplicated or facsimile copies of biomedical materials which qualified requesters may retain. Reasonable fees may be charged for copies or other services (other than free loan services) provided by a grantee under this subpart: *Provided,* That equal access to the health-information resources of the region or of the national network is assured. These fees shall be designed to recover expenses. The grantee's access policies shall determine the qualifications of individuals or organizations for access to the services provided under the grant, so long as those policies are consistent with the mandatory service undertakings of the program. The Secretary may review the grantee's access policies to assure compliance with this requirement.



---

[N] [56 FR 29189, June 26, 1991, as amended at 81 FR 3009, Jan. 20, 2016]




