# § 59.20   Initial application requirements.

(a) For a project to be considered for inclusion on the priority list in § 59.50 of this part for the next fiscal year, a State must submit to VA an original and one copy of a completed VA Form 10-0388-1 and all information, documentation, and other forms specified by VA Form 10-0388-1 (these forms are available on the internet Web sites provided in § 59.170 of this part).


(b) The Secretary, based on the information submitted for a project pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, will approve the project for inclusion on the priority list in § 59.50 of this part if the submission includes all of the information requested under paragraph (a) of this section and if the submission represents a project that, if further developed, could meet the requirements for a grant under this part. 


(c) The items requested under paragraph (a) of this section must be received by VA no later than April 15 in order for VA to include the application on the priority list for the award of grants during the next fiscal year. *See* § 59.50, Priority List.


(d) If a State representative believes that VA may not award a grant to the State for a grant application during the current fiscal year and wants to ensure that VA includes the application on the priority list for the next fiscal year, the State representative must, prior to April 15 of the current fiscal year,


(1) Request VA to include the application in those recommended to the Secretary for inclusion on the priority list, and


(2) Send any updates to VA. 



---

[N] [66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 58880, Oct. 8, 2008; 77 FR 10665, Feb. 23, 2012]




