# ยง 723.5   Hearing.

(a) *Convening of board.* The Board will convene, recess and adjourn at the call of the Chair or Acting Chair.


(b) *Conduct of hearing.* (1) The hearing shall be conducted by the Chair or Acting Chair, and shall be subject to his/her rulings so as to ensure a full and fair hearing. The Board shall not be limited by legal rules of evidence but shall maintain reasonable bounds of competency, relevancy, and materiality.


(2) If the applicant, after being duly notified, indicates to the Board that he/she does not desire to be present or to be represented by counsel at the hearing, the Board will consider the case on the basis of all the material before it, including, but not limited to, the application for correction filed by the applicant, any documentary evidence filed in support of such application, any brief submitted by or in behalf of the applicant, and all available pertinent records.


(3) If the applicant, after being duly notified, indicates to the Board that he/she will be present or be represented by counsel at the hearing, and without good cause and timely notice to the Board, the applicant or representative fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing or fails to provide the notice required by ยง 723.4(b)(2), the Board may consider the case in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or make such other disposition of the case as is appropriate under the circumstances.


(4) All testimony before the Board shall be given under oath or affirmation. The proceedings of the Board and the testimony given before it will be recorded verbatim.


(c) *Continuance.* The Board may continue a hearing on its own motion. A request for continuance by or in behalf of the applicant may be granted by the Board if a continuance appears necessary to insure a full and fair hearing.




