# ยง 84.81   Compressed breathing gas and liquefied breathing gas containers; minimum requirements.

(a) Compressed breathing gas and liquefied breathing gas containers shall meet the minimum requirements of the Department of Transportation for interstate shipment of such containers when fully charged.


(b) Such containers shall be permanently and legibly marked to identify their contents, e.g., compressed breathing air, compressed breathing oxygen, liquefied breathing air, or liquefied breathing oxygen.


(c) Containers normally removed from apparatus for refilling shall be equipped with a dial indicating gage which shows the pressure in the container.


(d) Compressed breathing gas contained valves or a separate charging system or adapter provided with each apparatus shall be equipped with outlet threads specified for the service by the American Standards Association, Compressed Gas Cylinder Valve Outlet and Inlet Connections, B57.1-1965. B57.1-1965 is incorporated by reference and has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, NY Copies may be inspected at the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [60 FR 30355, June 8, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 3907, Jan. 26, 2015]




