# ยง 280.242   Requirements for operator training.

UST system owners and operators must ensure Class A, Class B, and Class C operators meet the requirements of this section. Any individual designated for more than one operator class must successfully complete the required training program or comparable examination according to the operator class in which the individual is designated.


(a) *Class A operators.* Each designated Class A operator must either be trained in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section or pass a comparable examination in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) At a minimum, the training program for the Class A operator must provide general knowledge of the requirements in this paragraph (a). At a minimum, the training must teach the Class A operators, as applicable, about the purpose, methods, and function of:


(i) Spill and overfill prevention;


(ii) Release detection;


(iii) Corrosion protection;


(iv) Emergency response;


(v) Product and equipment compatibility and demonstration;


(vi) Financial responsibility;


(vii) Notification and storage tank registration;


(viii) Temporary and permanent closure;


(ix) Related reporting, recordkeeping, testing, and inspections;


(x) Environmental and regulatory consequences of releases; and


(xi) Training requirements for Class B and Class C operators.


(2) At a minimum, the training program must evaluate Class A operators to determine these individuals have the knowledge and skills to make informed decisions regarding compliance and determine whether appropriate individuals are fulfilling the operation, maintenance, and recordkeeping requirements for UST systems in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Class B operators.* Each designated Class B operator must either receive training in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section or pass a comparable examination, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) At a minimum, the training program for the Class B operator must cover either: general requirements that encompass all regulatory requirements and typical equipment used at UST facilities; or site-specific requirements which address only the regulatory requirements and equipment specific to the facility. At a minimum, the training program for Class B operators must teach the Class B operator, as applicable, about the purpose, methods, and function of:


(i) Operation and maintenance;


(ii) Spill and overfill prevention;


(iii) Release detection and related reporting;


(iv) Corrosion protection;


(v) Emergency response;


(vi) Product and equipment compatibility and demonstration;


(vii) Reporting, recordkeeping, testing, and inspections;


(viii) Environmental and regulatory consequences of releases; and


(ix) Training requirements for Class C operators.


(2) At a minimum, the training program must evaluate Class B operators to determine these individuals have the knowledge and skills to implement applicable UST regulatory requirements in the field on the components of typical UST systems or, as applicable, site-specific equipment used at an UST facility in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Class C operators.* Each designated Class C operator must either: be trained by a Class A or Class B operator in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section; complete a training program in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section; or pass a comparable examination, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) At a minimum, the training program for the Class C operator must teach the Class C operators to take appropriate actions (including notifying appropriate authorities) in response to emergencies or alarms caused by spills or releases resulting from the operation of the UST system.


(2) At a minimum, the training program must evaluate Class C operators to determine these individuals have the knowledge and skills to take appropriate action (including notifying appropriate authorities) in response to emergencies or alarms caused by spills or releases from an underground storage tank system.


(d) *Training program.* Any training program must meet the minimum requirements of this section and include an evaluation through testing, a practical demonstration, or another approach acceptable to the implementing agency.


(e) *Comparable examination.* A comparable examination must, at a minimum, test the knowledge of the Class A, Class B, or Class C operators in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, as applicable.




