# § 80.1451   What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?

(a) *Obligated parties and exporters.* Any obligated party or exporter of renewable fuel must submit to EPA reports according to the schedule, and containing all the information, that is set forth in this paragraph (a).


(1) Annual compliance reports must include all the following information:


(i) The obligated party's or exporter of renewable fuel's name.


(ii) The EPA company registration number.


(iii) Whether the refiner is complying on a corporate (aggregate) or facility-by-facility basis.


(iv) The EPA facility registration number, if complying on a facility-by-facility basis.


(v)(A) For the 2010 through 2019 compliance periods, the production volume and import volume of all of the products listed in § 80.1407(c) and (e) for the compliance period.


(B) For the 2020 compliance period, separately, the production volume and import volume of all of the gasoline products listed in § 80.1407(c), the production volume and import volume of all of the MVNRLM diesel fuel products listed in § 80.1407(e), and the combined volume of all gasoline products and MVNRLM diesel fuel listed in § 80.1407(c) and (e) for the compliance period.


(C) Beginning with the 2021 compliance period, separately, the production volume and import volume for the compliance period of all of the following:


(*1*) All of the gasoline products listed in § 80.1407(c).


(*2*) All of the MVNRLM diesel fuel products listed in § 80.1407(e).


(*3*) The combined production volume of all gasoline products and MVNRLM diesel fuel.


(*4*) Distillate fuel that is not transportation fuel.


(*5*) Distillate fuel that is certified NTDF.


(vi) The RVOs, as specified in § 80.1427(a) for obligated parties and § 80.1430(b) for exporters of renewable fuel, for the reporting year.


(vii) Any deficit RVOs carried over from the previous year.


(viii) The total current-year RINs by category of renewable fuel (*i.e.,* cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel, advanced biofuel, renewable fuel, and cellulosic diesel), retired for compliance.


(ix) The total prior-year RINs by renewable fuel category retired for compliance.


(x) The total cellulosic biofuel waiver credits used to meet the party's cellulosic biofuel RVO.


(xi) A list of all RINs generated prior to July 1, 2010 that were retired for compliance in the reporting period.


(xii) Any deficit RVO(s) carried into the subsequent year.


(xiii) Any additional information that EPA may require.


(xiv)-(xv) [Reserved]


(xvi) The total current-year RINs by category of renewable fuel (*i.e.,* cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel, advanced biofuel, renewable fuel, and cellulosic diesel), retired for compliance that are invalid as specified in § 80.1431(a).


(xvii) The total prior-year RINs by renewable fuel category retired for compliance that are invalid as specified in § 80.1431(a).


(xviii) A list of all RINs that were retired for compliance in the reporting period and are invalid as specified in § 80.1431(a).


(xix) For parties that redesignate certified NTDF as MVNRLM diesel fuel under § 80.1408 at any time during the compliance period, the volumes MVNRLM_BAL_, MVNRLM_O_, MVNRLM_INVCHG_, and MVNRLM_I_ as calculated in § 80.1408(a)(2).


(2) The RIN transaction reports required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) The quarterly RIN activity reports required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(4) Reports required under this paragraph (a) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the owner or a responsible corporate officer of the obligated party or exporter of renewable fuel.


(b) *Renewable fuel producers (domestic and foreign) and importers.* Any domestic producer or importer of renewable fuel who generates RINs, or any RIN-generating foreign producer must submit to EPA reports according to the schedule, and containing all of the following information:


(1)(i) For RINs generated beginning on July 1, 2010, RIN generation reports for each facility owned by the renewable fuel producer or importer shall be submitted according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(ii) The RIN generation reports shall include all the following information for each batch of renewable fuel produced or imported, where “batch” means a discrete quantity of renewable fuel produced or imported and assigned a unique batch-RIN per § 80.1426(d):


(A) The RIN generator's name.


(B) The RIN generator's EPA company registration number.


(C) The renewable fuel producer EPA facility registration number.


(D) The importer EPA facility registration number and foreign renewable fuel producer company registration number, if applicable.


(E) The applicable reporting period.


(F) The quantity of RINs generated for each batch according to § 80.1426.


(G) The production date of each batch.


(H) The fuel type of each batch.


(I) The volume of ethanol denaturant and applicable equivalence value of each batch.


(J) The volume of each batch produced.


(K) The types and quantities of feedstocks and biointermediates used.


(L) The process(es), feedstock(s), and biointermediate(s) used and proportion of renewable volume attributable to each process, feedstock, and biointermediate.


(M) The type of co-products produced with each batch.


(N) The quantity of co-products produced in each quarter.


(O) A list of the RINs generated and an affirmation that the feedstock(s) used for each batch meets the definition of renewable biomass.


(P) Producers of renewable electricity and producers or importers of biogas used for transportation as described in § 80.1426(f)(10) and (11), shall report all of the following:


(*1*) The total energy produced and supplied for use as a transportation fuel, in units of energy (for example, MMBtu or MW) based on metering of gas volume or electricity.


(*2*) The name and location of where the fuel is sold for use as a transportation fuel.


(Q) Producers or importers of renewable fuel produced at facilities that use biogas for process heat as described in § 80.1426(f)(12), shall report the total energy supplied to the renewable fuel facility, in MMBtu based on metering of gas volume.


(R) Producers or importers of renewable fuel made from separated municipal solid waste must report the amount of paper, cardboard, plastics, rubber, textiles, metals, and glass separated from municipal solid waste for recycling. Reporting shall be in units of weight (in tons).


(S) Producers of advanced biofuel using grain sorghum shall report all of the following:


(*1*) The total amount of electricity that is purchased from the grid and used at the site, based on metering, in kWh.


(*2*) Total amount of ethanol produced.


(*3*) Calculation of the amount of grid electricity used at the site per gallon of ethanol produced in each batch.


(*4*) Each batch number as specified in § 80.1452(b).


(*5*) Reference ID for documents required by § 80.1454(k)(2)(D).


(T) Producers or importers of any renewable fuel other than ethanol, biodiesel, renewable gasoline, renewable diesel that meets the Grade No. 1-D or No. 2-D specification in ASTM D975 (incorporated by reference, see § 80.12), biogas or renewable electricity, must report, on a quarterly basis, all the following for each volume of fuel:


(*1*) Total volume of renewable fuel produced or imported, total volume of renewable fuel blended into gasoline and distillate fuel by the producer or importer, and the percentage of renewable fuel in each batch of finished fuel.


(*2*) If the producer or importer generates RINs under § 80.1426(f)(17)(i)(B)(*2*), report the name, location, and contract information for each party that purchased the renewable fuel.


(U) Producers generating D code 3 or 7 RINs for cellulosic biofuel other than RNG or biogas-derived renewable fuel, and that was produced from two or more feedstocks converted simultaneously, at least one of which has less than 75% average adjusted cellulosic content, and using a combination of processes or a process other than a thermochemical process or a combination of processes, must report all the following:


(*1*) The cellulosic converted fraction as determined by collecting new representative process data and performing the same chemical analysis method accepted at registration. Producers shall calculate this information on an annual basis or within 10 business days of generating every 500,000 gallons of cellulosic biofuel, whichever is more frequent, and report quarterly. Reports shall include all values used to calculate feedstock energy according to § 80.1426(f)(3)(vi). If new data shows that the cellulosic Converted Fraction is different than previously calculated, the formula used to generate RINs under § 80.1426(f)(3) must be updated as soon as practical but no later than 5 business days after the producer receives the updated data. If new testing data results in a change to the cellulosic Converted Fraction, only RINs generated after the new testing data were received, subject to the 5-day allowance, would be affected.


(*2)* If the cellulosic Converted Fraction deviates from the previously calculated cellulosic Converted Fraction by 10% or more then the producer must notify EPA within 5 business days of receiving the new data and must adjust the formula used to generate RINs under § 80.1426(f)(3) for all fuel generated as soon as practical but no later than 5 business days after the producer receives the new data. If new testing data results in a change to the cellulosic Converted Fraction, only RINs generated after the new testing data were received, subject to the 5-day allowance, would be affected.


(V) Producers of renewable fuel using crop residue as a feedstock shall report all of the following according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section:


(*1*) The specific feedstock(s) utilized to produce renewable fuel under a pathway allowing the use of crop residue as feedstock.


(*2*) The total quantity of each specific feedstock used to produce renewable fuel.


(*3*) The total amount of qualifying renewable fuel produced under the crop residue pathway(s) in that quarter.


(W) Any additional information EPA may require.


(2) The RIN transaction reports required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) The RIN activity reports required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(4) Reports required under this paragraph (b) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the owner or a responsible corporate officer of the renewable fuel producer or importer.


(c) *All RIN-owning parties.* Any party, including any party specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, that owns RINs during a reporting period, must submit reports to EPA according to the schedule, and containing all the information, that is set forth in this paragraph (c).


(1)(i) For RIN transactions beginning on July 1, 2010, RIN transaction reports listing each RIN transaction shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(ii) As per § 80.1452, RIN transaction information listing each RIN transaction shall be submitted to the EMTS.


(iii) Each report required by paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall include all of the following information:


(A) The submitting party's name.


(B) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.


(C) The applicable reporting period.


(D) Transaction type (i.e., RIN buy, RIN sell, RIN separation, RIN retire, reinstated 2009 or 2010 RINs).


(E) Transaction date.


(F) For a RIN purchase or sale, the trading partner's name.


(G) For a RIN purchase or sale, the trading partner's EPA company registration number. For all other transactions, the submitting party's EPA company registration number.


(H) RIN subject to the transaction.


(I) For a RIN purchase or sale, the per gallon RIN price and/or the per gallon price of renewable fuel price with RINs included.


(J) The reason code for retiring RINs, separating RINs, buying RINs, or selling RINs.


(K) Any additional information that EPA may require.


(2) RIN activity reports must be submitted to EPA according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Each report must summarize RIN activities for the reporting period, separately for RINs separated from a renewable fuel volume and RINs assigned to a renewable fuel volume.


(i) For compliance periods ending on or before December 31, 2019, each report must include all of the following information:


(A) The submitting party's name.


(B) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.


(C) The number of current-year RINs owned at the start of the quarter.


(D) The number of prior-year RINs owned at the start of the quarter.


(E) The total current-year RINs purchased.


(F) The total prior-year RINs purchased.


(G) The total current-year RINs sold.


(H) The total prior-year RINs sold.


(I) The total current-year RINs retired.


(J) The total current-year RINs retired that are invalid under § 80.1431(a).


(K) The total prior-year RINs retired.


(L) The total prior-year RINs retired that are invalid under § 80.1431(a).


(M) The number of current-year RINs owned at the end of the quarter.


(N) The number of prior-year RINs owned at the end of the quarter.


(O) The number of RINs generated.


(P) The volume of renewable fuel (in gallons) owned at the end of the quarter.


(Q) The total 2009 and 2010 retired RINs reinstated.


(R) Any additional information that EPA may require.


(ii) For compliance periods starting on or after January 1, 2020, each report must include all of the following information:


(A) The submitting party's name.


(B) The submitting party's EPA-issued company identification number.


(C) Primary registration designation or compliance level for compliance year (*e.g.,* “Aggregated Refiner,” “Exporter,” “Renewable Fuel Producer,” “RIN Owner Only,” etc.).


(D) All of the following information:


(*1*) The number of current-year RINs owned at the start of the quarter.


(*2*) The number of prior-year RINs owned at the start of the quarter.


(*3*) The total current-year RINs purchased.


(*4*) The total prior-year RINs purchased.


(*5*) The total current-year RINs sold.


(*6*) The total prior-year RINs sold.


(*7*) The total current-year RINs retired.


(*8*) The total current-year RINs retired that are invalid under § 80.1431(a).


(*9*) The total prior-year RINs retired.


(*10*) The total prior-year RINs retired that are invalid under § 80.1431(a).


(*11*) The number of current-year RINs owned at the end of the quarter.


(*12*) The number of prior-year RINs owned at the end of the quarter.


(*13*) The number of RINs generated.


(*14*) The volume of renewable fuel (in gallons) owned at the end of the quarter.


(E)(*1*) Indicate if the submitting party or the submitting party's corporate affiliate group exceeded the primary threshold for any day in the quarter under § 80.1435(c)(1). If the submitting party is in an affiliate group that does not contain an obligated party, and the affiliate group has exceeded the primary threshold, then EPA may publish the name and EPA-issued company identification number of the submitting party.


(*2*) Indicate if the submitting party or the submitting party's corporate affiliate group exceeded the secondary threshold for any day in the quarter under § 80.1435(c)(2). If the submitting party is an obligated party and has exceeded the secondary threshold or is in a corporate affiliate group containing an obligated party that has exceeded the secondary threshold, then EPA may publish the name and EPA-issued company identification number of the submitting party.


(F) A list of all corporate and contractual affiliates during the reporting period. For each affiliate, include the identification information (including the EPA company ID number, if registered) and the affiliate type.


(G) The RVO used to calculate D6 RIN threshold, if alternative gasoline and diesel production volumes were used under § 80.1435(d).


(H) A list of contractual affiliates that had a contract with the party that did not result in transfer of RINs to the party during the reporting period.


(I) Any additional information that EPA may require.


(3) All reports required under this paragraph (c) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the RIN owner or a responsible corporate officer of the RIN owner.


(d) Except for those producers using feedstocks subject to the aggregate compliance approach described in § 80.1454(g), producers and RIN-generating importers of renewable fuel made from feedstocks that are planted crops and crop residue from existing foreign agricultural land, planted trees or tree residue from actively managed tree plantations, slash and pre-commercial thinnings from forestlands or biomass obtained from areas at risk of wildfire must submit quarterly reports according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section that include all of the following:


(1) A summary of the types and quantities of feedstocks used in that quarter.


(2) Electronic data identifying the land by coordinates of the points defining the boundaries from which each type of feedstock listed per paragraph (d)(1) of this section was harvested.


(3) If electronic data identifying a plot of land have been submitted previously, producers and RIN-generating importers may submit a cross-reference to that electronic data.


(e) If EPA finds that the 2007 baseline amount of agricultural land has been exceeded in any year beginning in 2010, beginning on the first day of July of the following calendar year any producers or importers of renewable fuel that use planted crops and/or crop residue from existing U.S. agricultural lands as feedstock must submit quarterly reports according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section that include all of the following:


(1) A summary of the types and quantities of feedstocks used in that quarter.


(2) Electronic data identifying the land by coordinates of the points defining the boundaries from which each type of feedstock listed per paragraph (d)(1) of this section was harvested.


(3) If electronic data identifying a plot of land have been submitted previously, producers and RIN-generating importers may submit a cross-reference to that electronic data.


(f) *Report submission deadlines.* The submission deadlines for annual and quarterly reports are as follows:


(1) *Annual compliance reports*—(i) *Obligated parties.* (A) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section, for obligated parties, annual compliance reports must be submitted by whichever of the following dates is latest:


(*1*) March 31 of the subsequent calendar year.


(*2*) The next quarterly reporting deadline under paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the date the subsequent compliance year's renewable fuel standards become effective in § 80.1405(a).


(*3*) The next quarterly reporting deadline under paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the annual compliance reporting deadline for the prior compliance year.


(B)(*1*) For obligated parties that meet the requirements for a small refinery under § 80.1441(e)(2)(iii), for the 2019 compliance year, annual compliance reports must be submitted no later than the next quarterly reporting deadline under paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the date the 2021 renewable fuel standards become effective in § 80.1405(a).


(*2*) For the 2020 compliance year, annual compliance reports must be submitted no later than the next quarterly reporting deadline in paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the deadline in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(*3*) For the 2021 compliance year, annual compliance reports must be submitted no later than the next quarterly reporting deadline in paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the deadline in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(*4*) For the 2022 compliance year, annual compliance reports must be submitted by whichever of the following dates is latest:


(*i*) The next quarterly reporting deadline under paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the date the 2023 renewable fuel standards become effective in § 80.1405(a).


(*ii*) The next quarterly reporting deadline in paragraph (f)(2) of this section after the deadline in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B)(*3*) of this section.


(ii) *All other parties.* For all parties other than obligated parties, annual compliance reports must be submitted by March 31 of the subsequent year.


(iii) *Deadline publication.* The annual compliance reporting deadline will be calculated in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section and published on EPA's website.


(2) *Quarterly compliance reports.* Quarterly reports shall be submitted by the required deadline as shown in Table 1 of this section. Any reports generated by EMTS must be reviewed, supplemented, and/or corrected if not complete and accurate, and verified by the owner or responsible corporate officer prior to submittal. Table 1 follows:


(3) *Report certification.* Reports required must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the owner or a responsible corporate officer of the submitter.


(4) *Monthly reporting schedule.* Any party required to submit information or reports on a monthly basis must submit such information or reports by the end of the subsequent calendar month.


(g) *Independent third-party auditors.* Any independent third-party auditor must submit quarterly reports as follows:


(1) The following information for each verified batch, as applicable:


(i) The audited party's name.


(ii) The audited party's EPA company registration number.


(iii) The audited party's EPA facility registration number.


(iv)(A) The renewable fuel importer's EPA facility registration number and foreign renewable fuel producer's company registration number.


(B) The RNG importer's EPA facility registration number and foreign RNG producer's company registration number.


(v) The applicable reporting period.


(vi) The quantity of RINs generated for each verified batch according to §§ 80.125, 80.130, and 80.1426.


(vii) The production date of each verified batch.


(viii) The D-code of each verified batch.


(ix) The volume of ethanol denaturant and applicable equivalence value of each verified batch.


(x) The volume of each verified batch produced.


(xi) The volume and type of each feedstock and biointermediate used to produce the verified batch.


(xii) Whether the feedstocks and biointermediates used to produce each verified batch met the definition of renewable biomass.


(xiii) Whether appropriate RIN generation and verified batch volume calculations under this part were followed for each verified batch.


(xiv) The quantity and type of co-products produced.


(xv) Invoice document identification numbers associated with each verified batch.


(xvi) Laboratory sample identification numbers for each verified batch associated with the generation of any certificates of analysis used to verify fuel type and quality.


(xvii) Any additional information that EPA may require.


(2) The following aggregate verification information, as applicable:


(i) The submitting party's name.


(ii) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.


(iii) The number of current-year RINs verified at the start of the quarter.


(iv) The number of prior-year RINs verified at the start of the quarter.


(v) The total current-year RINs verified.


(vi) The number of current-year RINs verified at the end of the quarter.


(vii) A list of all audited facilities, including the EPA's company and facility registration numbers, along with the date the independent third-party auditor conducted the on-site visit and audit.


(viii) Mass and energy balances calculated for each audited facility.


(ix) A list of all RINs that were identified as Potentially Invalid RINs (PIRs) pursuant to §§ 80.185 and 80.1474, along with a narrative description of why the RINs were not verified or were identified as PIRs.


(x) A list of all biointermediates that were identified as potentially improperly produced biointermediates under § 80.1477(d).


(xi) A list of all biogas that was identified as potentially inaccurate or non-qualifying under § 80.185(b).


(xii) Any additional information that EPA may require.


(3) All reports required under this paragraph (g) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the independent third-party auditor or a responsible corporate officer of the independent third-party auditor.


(h) Producers or importers of renewable fuel made from *Arundo donax* or *Pennisetum purpureum* per § 80.1426(f)(14) must report all the following:


(1) Any detected growth of *Arundo donax* or *Pennisetum purpureum* outside the intended planting areas, both surrounding the field of production and feedstock storage sites, along the transportation route, and around the biofuel production facility, within 5 business days after detection and in accordance with the Risk Mitigation Plan, if applicable.


(2) As available, any updated information related to the Risk Mitigation Plan, as applicable. An updated Risk Mitigation Plan must be approved by EPA in consultation with USDA and as appropriate other federal agencies prior to its implementation.


(3) On an annual basis, a description of and maps or electronic data showing the average and total size and prior use of lands planted with *Arundo donax* or *Pennisetum purpureum,* the average and total size and prior use of lands set aside to control the invasive spread of these crops, and a description and explanation of any change in land use from the previous year.


(4) On an annual basis, the report from an independent third party auditor evaluating monitoring and reporting activities conducted in accordance with the Risk Mitigation Plan, as applicable subject to approval of a different frequency by the EPA.


(5) Information submitted pursuant to paragraphs (h)(3) and (h)(4) of this section must be submitted as part of the producer or importer's fourth quarterly report, which covers the reporting period October-December, according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(i) Parties that redesignate certified NTDF as MVNRLM diesel fuel under § 80.1408 at any time during the compliance period, but do not incur an RVO under § 80.1408(a)(2)(i), must submit a report to EPA stating that they redesignated certified NTDF to MVNRLM diesel fuel during the compliance period, but that their net redesignated volume was less than or equal to zero, and they therefore did not incur an RVO for the compliance period.


(j) *Biointermediate producers.* For each biointermediate production facility, any biointermediate producer must submit quarterly reports for biointermediate batch production to EPA containing all of the information in this paragraph (j).


(1) Include all the following information for each batch of biointermediate produced:


(i) The biointermediate producer's name.


(ii) The biointermediate producer's EPA company registration number.


(iii) The biointermediate producer's EPA facility registration number.


(iv) The applicable compliance period.


(v) The production date.


(vi) The batch number.


(vii) For batches of biointermediates intended for use to produce cellulosic biofuels, the adjusted cellulosic content of each batch and certification that the cellulosic content of each batch was derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin that was derived from renewable biomass.


(viii) The volume of each batch produced.


(ix) The types and quantities of feedstocks used.


(x) The renewable fuel type(s) each batch of biointermediate was designated to be used as a feedstock material for.


(xi) The EPA company registration number and EPA facility registration number for each renewable fuel producer or foreign renewable fuel producer that received each batch.


(xii) The percentage of each batch of biointermediate that met the definition of renewable biomass and certification that this portion of the batch of biointermediate was derived from renewable biomass.


(xiii) The process(es) and feedstock(s) used and proportion of biointermediate volume attributable to each process and feedstock.


(xiv) The type of co-products produced with each batch.


(xv) The quantity of co-products produced in each quarter.


(xvi) Any additional information EPA may require.


(2) Quarterly reports under this paragraph (j) must be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(k) All reports required under this section shall be submitted on forms and following procedures prescribed by EPA.


(l) *English language reports.* Any document submitted to EPA under this section must be submitted in English, or shall include an English translation.



---

[N] [75 FR 14863, Mar. 26, 2010]


