# ยง 821.35   Assignment, duties and powers.

(a) *Assignment of law judge and duration of assignment.* The chief law judge shall assign a law judge to preside over each proceeding. Until such assignment, motions, requests and documents shall be addressed to the Case Manager for handling by the chief law judge, who may handle these matters personally or delegate them to other law judges for decision. After assignment of a proceeding to a law judge, all motions, requests and documents shall be addressed to that law judge. The authority of the assigned law judge shall terminate upon the expiration of the period within which appeals from initial decisions or appealable orders may be filed, or upon the law judge's withdrawal from the proceeding. 


(b) *Powers of law judge.* Law judges shall have the following powers: 


(1) To give notice of, and to hold, prehearing conferences and hearings, and to consolidate proceedings which involve a common question of law or fact; 


(2) To hold conferences, before or during the hearing, for the settlement or simplification of issues; 


(3) To issue subpoenas, and to take depositions or cause depositions to be taken; 


(4) To dispose of procedural requests or similar matters; 


(5) To rule on motions; 


(6) To regulate the conduct of hearings; 


(7) To administer oaths and affirmations; 


(8) To examine witnesses; 


(9) To receive evidence and rule upon objections and offers of proof; and 


(10) To issue initial decisions and dispositional orders.


(c) *Disqualification.* A law judge shall withdraw from a proceeding if, at any time, he or she deems himself or herself disqualified. If the law judge does not withdraw, and if an appeal from the law judge's initial decision is filed, the Board will, on motion of a party, determine whether the law judge should have withdrawn and, if so, order appropriate relief. 



---

[N] [68 FR 22625, Apr. 29, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 63252, Oct. 16, 2012]




