# § 427.502   Rebate Reports for applicable calendar quarters in calendar years 2023 and 2024.

(a) *Transition rule for reporting.* Section 1847A(i)(1)(C) of the Act allows CMS to delay the timeframe for reporting the information and rebate amount described in § 427.501(c) for applicable calendar quarters in calendar years 2023 and 2024 until not later than September 30, 2025.


(b) *Rebate Report information for applicable calendar quarters in calendar years 2023 and 2024.* The Rebate Reports for applicable calendar quarters in calendar years 2023 and 2024 will include the information set forth in § 427.501(b)(1).


(c) *Rebate Report procedures for applicable calendar quarters in calendar years 2023 and 2024.* Rebate amounts for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2023 and 2024 will be reported as follows:


(1) The 4 applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2023 will be consolidated into a single report and manufacturers will receive a single Preliminary Rebate Report followed by a single Rebate Report.


(i) Discarded drug units for which a refund is owed will be removed from the total number of billing units in the single Preliminary Rebate Report for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2023.


(ii) For this single Preliminary Rebate Report for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2023, the Suggestion of Error period as set forth in § 427.503 will be 30 calendar days.


(iii) No regular reconciliation of the rebate amount as set forth in § 427.501(d)(1) will be conducted for the rebate amount in the single Rebate Report for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2023.


(2) The four applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2024 will be consolidated into a single report and manufacturers will receive a single Preliminary Rebate Report followed by a single Rebate Report.


(i) For this single Preliminary Rebate Report for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2024, the Suggestion of Error period as set forth in § 427.503 will be 30 calendar days.


(ii) Nine months after issuance of the single Rebate Report, CMS will perform one regular reconciliation for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2024 in order to include revisions to the information used, determined under § 427.501(b)(1), to calculate the rebate amount. Such reconciliation will be as determined under § 427.501(d) inclusive of a preliminary reconciliation and a report with the reconciled rebate amount.


(iii) The Suggestion of Error period for the preliminary reconciliation for the applicable calendar quarters in calendar year 2024 will be 10 calendar days.






