# § 1753.93   Responsibilities.

(a) *Responsibilities transferred to certification borrowers.* (1) Approval of engineering and architectural service contracts.


(2) Approval of P&S.


(3) Approval of price quotations and bids, except where the low price bid is not accepted.


(4) Approval of award of construction contracts and amendments.


(5) Approval of FAP's if RUS has approved the force account method of construction for the construction project.


(6) Inspection and certification of construction.


(7) Approval of closeout documents.


(8) Other responsibilities as may be specifically granted in writing by RUS.


(b) *Responsibilities retained by RUS.* (1) Approval to deviate from RUS requirements, except as provided in (a) above.


(2) Approval of use of loan funds for projects other than those included in the loan construction budget. See 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C.


(3) Approval of use of loan funds in excess of amounts included in the loan budget.


(4) Approval of force account methods of engineering and construction.


(5) Approval to make significant deviations from the work plan approved by RUS.


(6) Approval of interim construction.


(7) Approval to modify or alter standard forms and contracts.


(8) Approval to open bids when fewer than the required number have been received.


(90) Approval of outside plant layouts.


(10) “Buy American” determinations.


(11) Other responsibilities not specifically transferred by this subpart or in writing by RUS.



---

[N] [55 FR 3574, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 81 FR 71585, Oct. 18, 2016]




