# ยง 998.24   Service obligations for NOAA Corps or officer training and education.

(a) NOAA Corps officers who attend any NOAA Corps or uniformed service officer training or education whose course of instruction is longer than 60 days or produces a duty under instruction officer evaluation report for long term training shall incur an ADSO to begin upon completion of the course or termination of attendance. If the officer does not complete the NOAA Corps or officer training, the ADSO shall still apply. The ADSO shall be calculated according to ยง 998.26. For the purpose of determining ADSOs, all aviation and maritime training longer than 60 days, not including the Basic Officer Training Class, shall be considered to be NOAA Corps or officer training. Exceptions to the computation standards in ยง 998.26 for NOAA Corps and officer training are as follows:


(1) Officers who attend initial fixed-wing multi-engine flight training shall incur a six-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance;


(2) Officers who attend heavy aircraft flight training for the first time shall incur a four-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance;


(3) Officers who attend heavy aircraft flight training for a second time for the purpose of qualification on new airframes shall incur a three-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance;


(4) Officers who attend a test pilot school longer than six months (including the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School and U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School) shall incur a four-year ADSO upon completion of the course or termination of attendance; and


(5) Officers selected as candidates for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Astronaut Corps shall incur a three-year ADSO upon the conclusion of their detail and return to the NOAA Corps.


(b) *Concurrent obligations.* An ADSO incurred under this section shall be served concurrently with an ADSO previously incurred under any other section of this part, or any other provision of law, except as provided for officers on active duty entering into an agreement for education loan repayment under ยง 998.27(a). When a newly incurred ADSO under this section is to be served concurrently with an existing ADSO, the obligated period will be equal to the length of the longest remaining obligation. The Commissioned Personnel Center will track each ADSO independently and notify the officer when each is fulfilled.


(c) *Consideration of NOAA Corps and officer training toward fulfillment of other service obligations.* Time spent in NOAA Corps or officer training is considered active duty service and shall be credited toward fulfilling an ADSO previously incurred under any other section of this part, or any other provision of law.




