# ยง 95.34   Previously used meat covers; importations permitted subject to restrictions.

Cloth or burlap which has been used to cover fresh or frozen meats originating in any region designated in ยง 94.1 of this subchapter as a region in which foot-and-mouth disease exists, shall not be imported except under the following conditions: 


(a) The cloth or burlap shall be consigned from the coast or border port of arrival to an establishment specifically approved for the purpose by the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services. 


(b) The cloth or burlap shall be immediately moved from the coast or border port of arrival, or in case of I. T. or in-bond shipments from the interior port, to the establishment, in railroad cars or trucks, or in vessel compartments, with no other material contained therein, sealed with seals of the Department, which shall not be broken except by inspectors or other persons authorized by the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services: *Provided, however,* That upon permission of the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services, such cloth or burlap may be stored for a temporary period in approved warehouses at the port of arrival under bond and under the supervision of an inspector. 


(c) The material shall be disinfected and otherwise handled at the establishment under the direction of an inspector in a manner approved by the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services to guard against the dissemination of foot-and-mouth disease, and the material shall not be removed therefrom, except upon special permission of the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services, until all of the conditions and requirements of this section have been complied with. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5981, June 13, 1963, as amended at 59 FR 67134, Dec. 29, 1994; 62 FR 56024, Oct. 28, 1997. Redesignated at 78 FR 73003, Dec. 4, 2013; 83 FR 15494, Apr. 11, 2018]




