# ยง 39.53   What information must PVOs provide to passengers with a disability?

As a PVO, you must provide the following information to individuals who self-identify as having a disability (including those who are deaf or hard of hearing or who are blind or visually impaired) or who request disability-related information, or persons making inquiries on the behalf of such persons. The information you provide must, to the maximum extent feasible, be specific to the vessel a person is seeking to travel on or use.


(a) The availability of accessible facilities on the vessel including, but not limited to, means of boarding the vessel, toilet rooms, staterooms, decks, dining, and recreational facilities.


(b) Any limitations of the usability of the vessel or portions of the vessel by people with mobility impairments;


(c) Any limitations on the accessibility of boarding and disembarking at ports at which the vessel will call (*e.g.,* because of the use of inaccessible lighters or tenders as the means of coming to or from the vessel);


(d) Any limitations on the accessibility of services or tours ancillary to the transportation provided by the vessel concerning which the PVO makes arrangements available to passengers;


(e) Any limitations on the ability of a passenger to take a service animal off the vessel at foreign ports at which the vessel will call (*e.g.,* because of quarantine regulations) and provisions for the care of an animal acceptable to the PVO that the passenger must meet when the passenger disembarks at a port at which the animal must remain aboard the vessel.


(f) The services, including auxiliary aids and services, available to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing or blind or visually impaired.


(g) Any limitations on the ability of the vessel to accommodate passengers with a disability.


(h) Any limitations on the accessibility of boarding and disembarking at ports at which the vessel will call and services or tours ancillary to the transportation provided by the vessel concerning which the PVO makes arrangements available to passengers.




