# § 41.262   Reports.

(a) *General.* Every importer of processed tobacco must prepare a monthly report on TTB F 5220.6 in accordance with the instructions for the form. The report must be prepared at the times specified in this section and must be prepared whether or not any operations or transactions occurred during the period covered by the report. The importer must retain a copy of each report in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. The importer need not include in the reports under this part information regarding processed tobacco that is in customs custody.


(b) *First report(s).* The first monthly report must be submitted by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the permit is issued. If the importer is operating as an importer of processed tobacco under the transitional rule in accordance with § 41.233, the importer must submit the first report by the 15th day of the month following the month in which TTB provides written acknowledgement of the receipt of the application filed under § 41.232.


(c) *Reports of no activity.* Reports with the notation “No Activity” must be made for those months in which no activity occurs.


(d) *Reports of sales and transfers.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, an importer that exports processed tobacco or transfers or sells processed tobacco to someone other than a person holding a permit as an importer or manufacturer of processed tobacco or tobacco products or as an export warehouse proprietor must report each such exportation, sale, or transfer on TTB F 5250.2 by the close of the next business day following the day of exportation, sale, or transfer, in accordance with the instructions on the form.


(2) In the case of removals for export, as an alternative to the procedure prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the importer may submit to TTB monthly summary reports of such removals in a format approved by the appropriate TTB officer. Prior to the use of such an alternate procedure, the importer must obtain written approval from the appropriate TTB officer.


(3) An importer that ships or transfers processed tobacco for scientific testing or testing of equipment which results in the destruction of the processed tobacco or the return of the processed tobacco is not required to report such shipment or transfer on TTB F 5250.2.


(e) *Concluding report.* When a transfer of ownership of the business of an importer of processed tobacco described in § 41.252(b) occurs, or when a change in control of a corporation described in § 41.252(d) occurs, a concluding report with the notation “Concluding Report” must be made for the month or partial month during which the transfer of ownership or change in control becomes effective. A concluding report must also be made for the month or partial month during which an importer concludes operations under the permit or authorization.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-78, 74 FR 29416, June 22, 2009, as amended by T.D. TTB-104, 77 FR 37305, June 21, 2012; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87947, Nov. 6, 2024]






