# ยง 97.2   Meaning of words.

Words used in the regulations in this part in the singular form will import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The definitions of terms contained in the Act shall apply to such terms when used in this part. As used throughout the regulations in this part, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms will be construed to mean: 


*Abandoned application.* An application which has not been pursued to completion within the time allowed by the Office or has been voluntarily abandoned. 


*Act.* The Plant Variety Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 2321 *et seq.*). 


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his or her stead. 


*Applicant.* The person who applied for a certificate of plant variety protection. 


*Application.* An application for plant variety protection under the Act. 


*Assignee.* A person to whom an owner assigns his/her rights in whole or in part. 


*Board.* The Plant Variety Protection Board appointed by the Secretary. 


*Certificate.* A certificate of plant variety protection issued under the Act by the Office. 


*Certified seed.* Seed which has been determined by an official seed certifying agency to conform to standards of genetic purity and identity as to variety, which standards have been approved by the Secretary. 


*Commissioner.* The Examiner in Chief of the Office. 


*Decision and order.* Includes the Secretary's findings of fact; conclusions with respect to all material issues of fact and law, as well as the reasons or basis therefor; and order. 


*Examiner.* An employee of the Plant Variety Protection Office who determines whether a certificate is entitled to be issued. The term shall, in all cases, include the Commissioner. 


*Foreign application.* An application for plant variety protection filed in a foreign country. 


*Hearing Clerk.* The Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC. 


*Hearing Officer.* An Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture, duly assigned to preside at a hearing held pursuant to the rules of this part. 


*Office or Plant Variety Protection Office.* The Plant Variety Protection Office, Science and Technology Programs, AMS, USDA. 


*Owner.* A breeder who developed or discovered and developed a variety for which plant variety protection may be applied for under the Act, or a person to whom the rights to such variety have been assigned or transferred. 


*Person.* An individual, partnership, corporation, association, government agency, or other business or governmental entity. 


*Sale for other than seed or propagating purposes.* The transfer of title to and possession of the seed or propagating material by the owner to a grower or other person, for reproduction for the owner, for testing, or for experimental use, and not for commercial sale of the seed, reproduced seed, propagating material, or reproduced propagating material for planting purposes.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated to act in his or her stead. 


*Seed certifying agency.* It shall be defined as set forth in the Federal Seed Act (53 Stat. 1275). 



---

[N] [58 FR 42435, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 17189, Apr. 4, 1995; 61 FR 248, Jan. 4, 1996; 70 FR 28785, May 19, 2005; 85 FR 430, Jan. 6, 2020]




