# § 139.110   Macaroni products.

(a) Macaroni products are the class of food each of which is prepared by drying formed units of dough made from semolina, durum flour, farina, flour, or any combination of two or more of these, with water and with or without one or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) (1) to (6), inclusive, of this section.


(1) Egg white, frozen egg white, dried egg white, or any two or all of these, in such quantity that the solids thereof are not less than 0.5 percent and not more than 2.0 percent of the weight of the finished food.


(2) Disodium phosphate, in a quantity not less than 0.5 percent and not more than 1.0 percent of the weight of the finished food.


(3) Onions, celery, garlic, bay leaf, or any two or more of these, in a quantity which seasons the food.


(4) Salt, in a quantity which seasons the food.


(5) Gum gluten, in such quantity that the protein content of the finished food is not more than 13 percent by weight. The finished macaroni product contains not less than 87 percent of total solids as determined by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), in section 14.133, under the heading “Vacuum Oven Method—Official Final Action,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(6) Concentrated glyceryl monostearate (containing not less than 90 percent monoester), in a quantity not exceeding 2 percent by weight of the finished food.


(b) Macaroni is the macaroni product the units of which are tube-shaped and more than 0.11 inch but not more than 0.27 inch in diameter.


(c) Spaghetti is the macaroni product the units of which are tube-shaped or cord-shaped (not tubular) and more than 0.06 inch but not more than 0.11 inch in diameter.


(d) Vermicelli is the macaroni product the units of which are cord-shaped (not tubular) and not more than 0.06 inch in diameter.


(e) The name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is “Macaroni product”; or alternatively, the name is “Macaroni”, “Spaghetti”, or “Vermicelli”, as the case may be, when the units of the food are of the shapes and sizes specified in paragraph (b), (c), or (d), respectively, of this section.


(f)(1) When disodium phosphate is used the label shall bear the statement “Disodium phosphate added for quick cooking”.


(2) When any ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is used the label shall bear the statement “Seasoned with ______”, the blank being filled in with the common name of the ingredient; or in the case of bay leaves the statement “Spiced”, “Spice added”, or “Spiced with bay leaves”.


(3) When the ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement “Glyceryl monostearate added” or the statement “With added glyceryl monostearate”.


(4) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words and statements prescribed in this section, showing the optional ingredients used, shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow, or in part precede and in part follow, such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.


(g) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14409, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11828, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10099, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24894, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2878, Jan. 6, 1993; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




