# § 721.8875   Substituted halogenated pyridinol.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted halogenated pyridinol (PMN P-88-1273) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* The general requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), and (c) apply in all cases except that § 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes are used. In addition § 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical substance. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and carbon adsorption.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 44 ppb). Where primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated after wastewater treatment. 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: § 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 23772, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66748, Dec. 28, 1994]




