# ยง 983.43   Procedure.

(a) *Quorum.* A quorum of the committee shall be any seven voting committee members. The vote of a majority of members present at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall constitute the act of the committee: *Provided,* That:


(1) Actions of the committee with respect to the following issues shall require twelve (12) concurring votes of the voting members regarding any recommendation to the Secretary for adoption or change in:


(i) Quality regulation;


(ii) Aflatoxin regulation;


(iii) Research under ยง 983.46; and


(2) Actions of the committee with respect to the following issues shall require eight (8) concurring votes of the voting members regarding recommendation to the Secretary for adoption or change in:


(i) Inspection programs;


(ii) The establishment of the committee.


(b) *Voting.* Members of the committee may participate in a meeting by attendance in person or through the use of a conference telephone or similar communication equipment, as long as all members participating in such a meeting can communicate with one another. An action required or permitted to be taken by the committee may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the committee shall consent in writing to that action. 


(c) *Compensation.* The members of the committee and their alternates shall serve without compensation, but members and alternates acting as members shall be allowed their necessary expenses: *Provided,* That the committee may request the attendance of one or more alternates not acting as members at any meeting of the committee, and such alternates may be allowed their necessary expenses; and, *Provided further,* That the public member and the alternate for the public member may be paid reasonable compensation in addition to necessary expenses. 



---

[N] [69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]




