# § 1918.64   Powered conveyors.

(a) *Emergency stop.* Readily accessible stop controls shall be provided for use in an emergency. Whenever the operation of any power conveyor requires personnel to work close to the conveyor, the conveyor controls shall not be left unattended while the conveyor is in operation. 


(b) *Guarding.* All conveyor and trimmer drives that create a hazard shall be adequately guarded. 


(c) *Approved for location.* Electric motors and controls on conveyors and trimmers used to handle grain and exposed to grain dust shall be of a type approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory for use in Class II, Division I locations. (See § 1910.7 of this chapter.) 


(d) *Grain trimmer control box.* Each grain trimmer shall have a control box on the weather deck close to the spout feeding the trimmer. 


(e) *Grain trimmer power cable.* Power cables between the deck control box and the grain trimmer shall be used only in continuous lengths without splice or tap between connections. 


(f) *Portable conveyors.* Portable conveyors shall be stable within their operating ranges. When used at variable fixed levels, the unit shall be secured at the operating level. 


(g) *Delivery and braking.* When necessary for the safety of employees, provisions shall be made for braking objects at the delivery end of the conveyor. 


(h) *Electric brakes.* Conveyors using electrically released brakes shall be constructed so that the brakes cannot be released until power is applied and the brakes are automatically engaged if the power fails or the operating control is returned to the “stop” position. 


(i) *Starting powered conveyors.* Powered conveyors shall not be started until all employees are clear of the conveyor or have been warned that the conveyor is about to start up. 


(j) *Loading and unloading.* The area around conveyor loading and unloading points shall be kept clear of obstructions during conveyor operations. 


(k) *Lockout/tagout.* (1) Conveyors shall be stopped and their power sources locked out and tagged out during maintenance, repair, and servicing. If power is necessary for testing or for making minor adjustments, power shall only be supplied to the servicing operation. 


(2) The starting device shall be locked out and tagged out in the stop position before an attempt is made to remove the cause of a jam or overload of the conveying medium. 


(l) *Safe practices.* (1) Only designated persons shall operate, repair or service powered conveyors. 


(2) The employer shall ensure that each employee stays off operating conveyors. 


(3) Conveyors shall be operated only with all overload devices, guards and safety devices in place and operable. 




