# ยง 2472.2   Definitions.

(a) The term *the Act* means the Federal Employees Flexible and Compressed Work Schedules Act of 1982, Pub. L. 97-221, 5 U.S.C. 6120 *et seq.*

(b) The term *adverse agency impact* shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6131(b).


(c) The term *agency* shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6121(1).


(d) The term *duly authorized delegatee* means an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned. 


(e) The term *agency determination* means a determination: (1) Not to establish a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(2); or (2) to terminate such a schedule under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(3).


(f) The terms *collective bargaining agreement* and *exclusive representative* shall have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6121(8).


(g) The term *Executive Director* means the Executive Director of the Panel.


(h) The terms *designated representative* or *designee* of the Panel means a Panel member, staff member, or other individual designated by the Panel to act on its behalf.


(i) The term *flexible and compressed work schedules* shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6121 *et seq.*

(j) The term *hearing* means a factfinding hearing or any other hearing procedures deemed necessary to accomplish the purpose of 5 U.S.C. 6131. 


(k) The term *impasse* means that point in the negotiation of flexible and compressed work schedules at which the parties are unable to reach agreement on whether a schedule has had or would have an adverse agency impact.


(l) The term *Panel* means the Federal Service Impasses Panel described in 5 U.S.C. 7119(c) or a quorum thereof.


(m) The term *party* means the agency or the exclusive representative participating in negotiations concerning flexible and compressed work schedules.


(n) The term *quorum* means a majority of the members of the Panel.


(o) The term *schedule(s)* means flexible and compressed work schedules.



---

[N] [48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996]




