# § 99.40   When is the regulatory compliance exemption available, and under what conditions does the exemption cease to be available?

(a) The requirements of this subpart only apply to a WEC applicable facility when the total facility applicable emissions for that WEC applicable facility as calculated in accordance with § 99.21(a) exceed 0 mt CH_4_.


(b) The requirements of § 99.41 shall only be available when the conditions of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section are met. The Administrator shall make the determinations referenced in conditions (b)(1) and (2) of this section simultaneously for each individual State or Tribal lands in a single administrative action.


(1) A determination has been made by the Administrator that methane emissions standards and plans pursuant to subsections (b) and (d) of section 111 of the CAA have been approved and are in effect in all the State(s) or Tribal lands in which the WEC applicable facility is located; and


(2) A determination has been made by the Administrator that the emissions reductions achieved by compliance with the requirements described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will result in equivalent or greater emissions reductions as would be achieved by the proposed rule of the Administrator entitled `Standards of Performance for New, Reconstructed, and Modified Sources and Emissions Guidelines for Existing Sources: Oil and Natural Gas Sector Climate Review' (86 FR 63110; November 15, 2021), if such rule had been finalized and implemented. For purposes of this equivalency determination, the comparison will be made between the emissions reductions that would have been achieved if the proposed rule was finalized and implemented in each State or Tribal lands as proposed, and the emissions reductions that will be achieved when the final standards and plans are actually implemented in each State.


(3) The final compliance date, which is the date at which all affected facilities and all designated facilities become subject to all of the final methane emissions standards established pursuant to CAA section 111(b) or (d), as applicable, has passed in the State(s) or Tribal lands in which the WEC applicable facility is located.


(c) At such time that the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section are met, the reporting requirements of § 99.42 shall come into effect beginning with the WEC filing due on the date specified in § 99.5 for the calendar year following the calendar year in which all of the conditions were met. Imposition of the waste emission charge shall not be made on the emissions from an applicable facility meeting the requirements for regulatory compliance exemption and electing to claim such exemption for methane emissions that occurred during the calendar year during which the conditions of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section are met.


(d) If any of the conditions in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section cease to apply after the Administrator has made the determinations in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for the State(s) or Tribal lands in which the WEC applicable facility is located, the reporting requirements of § 99.42 shall cease to be in effect for the WEC applicable facility beginning with the WEC filing due on the date specified in § 99.5 for the calendar year during which either of the conditions were no longer met. The reporting requirements of § 99.42 shall cease to be in effect until the conditions of paragraph (e) of this section are met.


(e) The reporting requirements of § 99.42 will again come into effect at such time that a subsequent determination is made by the Administrator that the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section apply for the State(s) or Tribal lands in which the WEC applicable facility is located, and after the final compliance date specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The reporting requirements of § 99.42 will again come into effect in accordance with the timing specified in paragraph (c) of this section until such time the conditions of paragraph (d) of this section apply.






