# ยง 9.31   Commission review of disciplinary or access denial action on its own motion.

(a) *Request for additional information.* Where a person disciplined or denied access has not appealed the exchange decision to the Commission, upon review of the notice specified in ยง 9.11, the Division of Market Oversight or the Market Participants Division may request that the exchange file with the Division the record of the exchange proceeding, or designated portions of the record, a brief statement of the evidence and testimony adduced to support the exchange's findings that a rule or rules of the exchange were violated and such recordings, transcripts and other documents applicable to the particular exchange proceeding as the Division may specify. The exchange must promptly advise the person who is the subject of the disciplinary or access denial action of the Division's request. Within thirty days after service of the Division's request, the exchange must file the information requested with the Division in the manner requested by the Division and, upon request, deliver that information to the person who is the subject of the disciplinary or access denial action. Delivery to the person who is the subject of the disciplinary or access denial action must be in the manner prescribed by ยง 9.11(c). A person subject to the disciplinary action or access denial action requesting a copy of the information furnished to the Division must, if the exchange rules so provide, agree to pay the exchange reasonable fees for printing the copy.


(b) *Review on motion of the Commission.* The Commission may institute review of an exchange disciplinary or access denial action on its own motion. Other than in extraordinary circumstances, such review will be initiated within 180 days after the NFA has received the notice of exchange action provided for in ยง 9.11. If the Commission should institute review on its own motion, it will issue an order permitting the person who is the subject of the disciplinary or access denial action an opportunity to file an appropriate submission, and the exchange an opportunity to file a reply thereto.



---

[N] [83 FR 1548, Jan. 12, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 71807, Sept. 4, 2024]




