# § 367.2   Definitions.

(a) *Adequate evidence* means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred. 


(b) *Affiliated business entity* means a company that is under the control of the contractor, is in control of the contractor, or is under common control with the contractor. 


(c) *Civil judgment* means a judgment of a civil offense or liability by any court of competent jurisdiction in the United States. 


(d) *Company* means any corporation, firm, partnership, society, joint venture, business trust, association, consortium or similar organization. 


(e) *Conflict of interest* means a situation in which: 


(1) A contractor; any management officials or affiliated business entities of a contractor; or any employees, agents, or subcontractors of a contractor who will perform services under a proposed or existing contract with the FDIC: 


(i) Has one or more personal, business, or financial interests or relationships which would cause a reasonable individual with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the integrity or impartiality of those who are or will be acting under a proposed or existing FDIC contract;


(ii) Is an adverse party to the FDIC, RTC, the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC), or their successors in a lawsuit; or


(iii) Has ever been suspended, excluded, or debarred from contracting with a federal entity or has ever had a contract with the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors rescinded or terminated prior to the contract's completion and which rescission or termination involved issues of conflicts of interest or ethical responsibilities; or 


(2) Any other facts exist which the FDIC, in its sole discretion, determines may, through performance of a proposed or existing FDIC contract, provide a contractor with an unfair competitive advantage which favors the interests of the contractor or any person with whom the contractor has or is likely to have a personal or business relationship. 


(f) *Contractor* means a person or company which has submitted an offer to perform services for the FDIC or has a contractual arrangement with the FDIC to perform services. For purposes of this part, contractor also includes: 


(1) A contractor's affiliated business entities, key employees, and management officials of the contractor; 


(2) Any subcontractor performing services for the FDIC and the management officials and key employees of such subcontractors; and 


(3) Any entity or organization seeking to perform services for the FDIC as a minority or woman-owned business (MWOB). 


(g) *Contract(s)* means agreement(s) between FDIC and a contractor, including, but not limited to, agreements identified as “Task Orders”, for a contractor to provide services to FDIC. Contracts also mean contracts between a contractor and its subcontractor. 


(h) *Control* means the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of any class of the voting stock of a company; the ability to direct in any manner the election of a majority of a company's directors or trustees; or the ability to exercise a controlling influence over the company's management and policies. For purposes of this definition, a general partner of a limited partnership is presumed to be in control of that partnership. 


(i) *Conviction* means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, and includes pleas of nolo contendere. 


(j) *FDIC* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation acting in its receivership and corporate capacities, and FDIC officials or committees acting under delegated authority. 


(k) *Indictment* shall include an information or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense. 


(l) *Key employee* means an individual who participates personally and substantially in the negotiation of, performance of, and/or monitoring for compliance under a contract with the FDIC. Such participation is made through, but is not limited to, decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, or the rendering of advice under the contract. 


(m) *Management official* means any shareholder, employee or partner who controls a company and any individual who directs the day-to-day operations of a company. With respect to a partnership, all partners are deemed to be management officials unless the partnership is governed by a management or executive committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations. In partnerships with such committees, management official means only those partners who are a member of such a committee. 


(n) *Material fact* means one that is necessary to determine the outcome of an issue or case and without which the case could not be supported. 


(o) *Offer* means a proposal or other written or oral offer to provide services to FDIC. 


(p) *Pattern or practice of defalcation regarding obligations* means two or more instances in which a loan or advance from an insured depository institution: 


(1) Is in default for ninety (90) or more days as to payment of principal, interest, or a combination thereof, and there remains a legal obligation to pay an amount in excess of $50,000; or 


(2) Where there has been a failure to comply with the terms of a loan or advance to such an extent that the collateral securing the loan or advance was foreclosed upon, resulting in a loss in excess of $50,000 to the insured depository institution. 


(q) *Preponderance of the evidence* means proof by information that, compared with that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not. 


(r) *Subcontractor* means an entity or organization that enters into a contract with an FDIC contractor or another subcontractor to perform services under a proposed or existing contract with the FDIC. 


(s) *Substantial loss to federal deposit insurance funds* means: 


(1) A loan or advance from an insured depository institution, which is currently owed to the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors, or the former Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), the former Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) or the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FSLIC Reserve Fund (FRF), or funds that were maintained by the RTC for the benefit of insured depositors, that is or has ever been delinquent for ninety (90) or more days as to payment of principal, interest, or a combination thereof and on which there remains a legal obligation to pay an amount in excess of $50,000; 


(2) An obligation to pay an outstanding, unsatisfied, final judgment in excess of $50,000 in favor of the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC, or their successors, or the BIF, the SAIF, the FRF or the funds that were maintained by the RTC for the benefit of insured depositors; or 


(3) A loan or advance from an insured depository institution which is currently owed to the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors, or the former BIF, the former SAIF, the Deposit Insurance Fund , the FRF or the funds that were maintained by the RTC for the benefit of insured depositors, where there has been a failure to comply with the terms to such an extent that the collateral securing the loan or advance was foreclosed upon, resulting in a loss in excess of $50,000. 



---

[N] [61 FR 68560, Dec. 30, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20527, Apr. 21, 2006]




