# ยง 60.61   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part. 


(a) *Portland cement plant* means any facility manufacturing portland cement by either the wet or dry process. 


(b) *Bypass* means any system that prevents all or a portion of the kiln or clinker cooler exhaust gases from entering the main control device and ducts the gases through a separate control device. This does not include emergency systems designed to duct exhaust gases directly to the atmosphere in the event of a malfunction of any control device controlling kiln or clinker cooler emissions. 


(c) *Bypass stack* means the stack that vents exhaust gases to the atmosphere from the bypass control device. 


(d) *Monovent* means an exhaust configuration of a building or emission control device (e.g., positive-pressure fabric filter) that extends the length of the structure and has a width very small in relation to its length (i.e., length to width ratio is typically greater than 5:1). The exhaust may be an open vent with or without a roof, louvered vents, or a combination of such features.


(e) *Excess emissions* means, with respect to this subpart, results of any required measurements outside the applicable range (e.g., emissions limitations, parametric operating limits) that is permitted by this subpart. The values of measurements will be in the same units and averaging time as the values specified in this subpart for the limitations.


(f) *Operating day* means a 24-hour period beginning at 12:00 midnight during which the kiln produces clinker at any time. For calculating 30 day rolling average emissions, an *operating day* does not include the hours of operation during startup or shutdown.


(g) *Rolling average* means the weighted average of all data, meeting QA/QC requirements or otherwise normalized, collected during the applicable averaging period. The period of a rolling average stipulates the frequency of data averaging and reporting. To demonstrate compliance with an operating parameter a 30-day rolling average period requires calculation of a new average value each operating day and shall include the average of all the hourly averages of the specific operating parameter. For demonstration of compliance with an emissions limit based on pollutant concentration, a 30-day rolling average is comprised of the average of all the hourly average concentrations over the previous 30 operating days. For demonstration of compliance with an emissions limit based on lbs-pollutant per production unit, the 30-day rolling average is calculated by summing the hourly mass emissions over the previous 30 operating days, then dividing that sum by the total production during the same period.


(h) *Run average* means the average of the recorded parameter values for a run.



---

[N] [36 FR 24877, Dec. 23, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 20793, June 13, 1974; 53 FR 50363, Dec. 14, 1988; 78 FR 10032, Feb. 12, 2013; 80 FR 44776, July 27, 2015] 




