# ยง 36.4   Filing of application.

(a) A SF 299, which may be obtained from an appropriate Federal agency, shall be completed by the applicant according to the instructions on the form. The form shall be filed on the same day (except in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section) with each appropriate Federal agency from which an authorization, such as a permit, license, lease or certificate is required for the TUS. Filing with any appropriate Interior agency in Alaska shall be considered to be a filing with all of its agencies. Any filing fee required by the appropriate Federal agency pursuant to applicable law must be paid at the time of filing.


(b) Prior to filing the SF 299, the applicant shall determine whether additional information to that requested on the form is required by the appropriate Federal agencies. If so, the applicant shall file the additional information as an attachment to the SF 299.


(c) When, because of separate filing points, an applicant is not able to file with each appropriate Federal agency on the same day, the applicant shall file all applications as soon as possible. All applications must be filed within a 15 calendar day period. For purposes of the time requirements provided for in this part, the application shall not be considered to have been filed until the last appropriate Federal agency receives the application. The lead agency, determined pursuant to ยง 36.5(a), shall determine the date of filing or that the application was not filed within the 15 day period and inform all appropriate Federal agencies.


(d) The information collection requirements contained in these regulations have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and assigned clearance numbers 1024-0026 and 1004-0060. The information collected by the appropriate Federal agency will be used to determine whether or not to issue a permit to obtain a benefit. A response is required to obtain or retain a benefit.




