# § 746.4   North Korea.

(a) *Licensing requirements.* As authorized by section 6 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, and consistent with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718, a license is required to export or reexport any item subject to the EAR (see part 734 of the EAR) to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea), except food and medicines classified as EAR99 (definitions in part 772 of the EAR). Portions of certain license exceptions, set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, may be available. Exporters should be aware that other provisions of the EAR, including parts 742 and 744, also apply to exports and reexports to North Korea.


(b) *Licensing policy.* Items requiring a license are subject to case-by-case review, except as follows:


(1) *Luxury goods.* Applications to export or reexport luxury goods, e.g., luxury automobiles; yachts; gems; jewelry; other fashion accessories; cosmetics; perfumes; furs; designer clothing; luxury watches; rugs and tapestries; electronic entertainment software and equipment; recreational sports equipment; tobacco; wine and other alcoholic beverages; musical instruments; art; and antiques and collectible items, including but not limited to rare coins and stamps are subject to a general policy of denial. For further information on luxury goods, see supplement no. 1 to part 746.


(2) Applications to export or reexport arms and related materiel are subject to a general policy of denial. In addition, applications to export or reexport items specified by UN documents S/2006/814, S/2006/815 and S/2006/853 and other items that the UN Security Council or the Sanctions Committee established pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1718 has determined could contribute to North Korea's nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related or other weapons of mass destruction-related programs are also subject to a general policy of denial.


(3) Applications to export or reexport items controlled for NP and MT reasons (except ECCN 7A103 items) are subject to a general policy of denial.


(4) Applications to export or reexport humanitarian items (e.g., blankets, basic footwear, heating oil, and other items meeting subsistence needs) intended for the benefit of the North Korean people; items in support of United Nations humanitarian efforts; and agricultural commodities or medical devices items that are determined by BIS, in consultation with the interagency license review community, not to be luxury goods are subject to a general policy of approval.


(5) Other items on the CCL. See Section 742.19(b) of the EAR.


(c) *License exceptions.* You may export or reexport without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the license exception subsections specified in this paragraph. To determine scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to refer to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 (License Exceptions). Read each license exception carefully, as the provisions available for countries subject to sanctions are generally narrow.


(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.


(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), or the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as set forth in § 740.11(a), (b)(2) of the EAR.


(3) GFT, except that GFT is not available to export or reexport luxury goods as described in this section to North Korea.


(4) TSU for operation technology and software for lawfully exported commodities as set forth in § 740.13(a) and sales technology as set forth in § 740.13 (b) of the EAR.


(5) BAG for exports of items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage as set forth in § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR.


(6) AVS for civil aircraft as set forth in § 740.15(a)(4) of the EAR.


(d) The Secretary of State has designated North Korea as a country the government of which has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism. For anti-terrorism controls, see Section 742.19 of the EAR.


(e) OFAC maintains controls on certain transactions involving persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction and North Korean entities or any specially designated North Korean national.



---

[N] [72 FR 3725, Jan. 26, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 20223, Apr. 24, 2007; 79 FR 32625, June 5, 2014]




