# § 2105.5   How will fee information affect the processing of your request?

(a) Your request should state that you will pay all fees associated with processing the request, that you will pay fees up to a specified amount, and/or that you are seeking a fee waiver.


(b) If the Agency anticipates that the fees for processing the request will exceed the amount you have agreed to pay, or if you did not agree in writing to pay processing fees or request a fee waiver and the Agency anticipates the processing costs will exceed $50 (*see* § 2105.35(g)) or will exceed your entitlements (*see* § 2105.37), the Agency will notify you:


(1) Of the estimated processing fees;


(2) Of its need for either an advance payment (*see* § 2105.48) or your written assurance that you will pay the anticipated fees (or fees up to a specified amount); and


(3) That it will not be able to fully comply with your request unless you provide a fee waiver request and/or the requested written assurance or advance payment.


(c) If the Agency does not receive a written response from you within 20 workdays after requesting the information in paragraph (b) of this section, it will presume that you are no longer interested in the records and will close the file on the request.


(d) If you are seeking a fee waiver, your request must include a justification that addresses and meets the criteria in §§ 2105.43 and 2105.46. Failure to provide sufficient justification will result in a denial of the fee waiver request. If you are seeking a fee waiver, you may also indicate the amount you are willing to pay if the fee waiver is denied. This allows the Agency to process the request for records while it considers your fee waiver request.


(e) If you are required to pay a fee and it is later determined on appeal that you were entitled to a full or partial fee waiver, you will receive an appropriate refund.




