# § 7.91   Whiskeytown Unit, Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.

(a) *Water sanitation.* (1) Vessels with marine toilets so constructed as to permit wastes to be discharged directly into the water shall have such facilities sealed to prevent discharge. 


(2) Chemical or other type marine toilets with approved holding tanks or storage containers will be permitted, but will be discharged or emptied only at designated sanitary pumping stations. 


(b) Overnight occupancy of a vessel on the Whiskeytown Lake is prohibited. 


(c) *Powerless flight.* The use of devices designed to carry persons through the air in powerless flight is allowed at times and locations designated by the superintendent, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit. 


(d) *Gold Panning.* (1) As used in this section, the term “gold panning” means the attempted or actual removal of gold from a stream by using either a metal or plastic gold pan and a trowel, spoon or other digging implement having a blade surface not exceeding 4 inches wide and 8 inches long.


(2)(i) Unless otherwise designated by the superintendent, gold panning is allowed on all streams. Streams, or portions thereof, that are designated closed to gold panning are marked on a map available for public inspection at the office of the superintendent, or by the posting of signs, or both.


(ii) Prior to engaging in gold panning, a person shall register with, and pay a special recreation permit fee to, the superintendent. The superintendent shall establish the special recreation permit fee in accordance with regulations in part 71 of this chapter.


(iii) A person may remove gold from the Unit only in accordance with these regulations.


(3) The following are prohibited:


(i) Removing gold by any method other than gold panning, including, but not limited to, the use of suction, a crevice cleaner, screen separator, view box, sluice box, rocker, dredge or any other mechanical or hydraulic device, or skin diving equipment such as a snorkel, mask or wetsuit.


(ii) Using any toxic substance or chemical, including mercury, in gold panning activities.


(iii) Conducting gold panning outside the confines of existing stream water levels, or digging into a stream bank, or digging that results in the disturbance of the ground surface or the undermining of any vegetation, historic feature or bridge abutment.



---

[N] [36 FR 14267, Aug. 3, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 5245, Feb. 27, 1973; 49 FR 18452, Apr. 30, 1984; 54 FR 23649, June 2, 1989] 




