# § 3174.10   Coriolis meter for LACT and CMS measurement applications—operating requirements.

(a) *Minimum electronic pulse level.* The Coriolis meter must register the volume of oil passing through the meter as determined by a system that constantly emits electronic pulse signals representing the indicated volume measured. The pulse per unit volume must be set at a minimum of 8,400 pulses per barrel.


(b) *Meter specifications.* (1) The Coriolis meter specifications must identify the make and model of the Coriolis meter to which they apply and must include the following:


(i) The reference accuracy for both mass flow rate and density, stated in either percent of reading, percent of full scale, or units of measure;


(ii) The effect of changes in temperature and pressure on both mass flow and fluid density readings, and the effect of flow rate on density readings. These specifications must be stated in percent of reading, percent of full scale, or units of measure over a stated amount of change in temperature, pressure, or flow rate (*e.g.,* “±0.1 percent of reading per 20 psi”);


(iii) The stability of the zero reading for volumetric flow rate. The specifications must be stated in percent of reading, percent of full scale, or units of measure;


(iv) Design limits for flow rate and pressure; and


(v) Pressure drop through the meter as a function of flow rate and fluid viscosity.


(2) Submission of meter specifications: The operator must submit Coriolis meter specifications to the BLM upon request.


(c) *Non-resettable totalizer.* The Coriolis meter must have a non-resettable internal totalizer for indicated volume.


(d) *Verification of meter zero value using the manufacturer's specifications.* If the indicated flow rate is within the manufacturer's specifications for zero stability, no adjustments are required. If the indicated flow rate is outside the manufacturer's specification for zero stability, the meter's zero reading must be adjusted. After the meter's zero has been adjusted, the meter must be proven required by § 3174.11. A copy of the zero value verification procedure must be made available to the AO upon request.


(e) *Required on-site information.* (1) The Coriolis meter display must be readable without using data collection units, laptop computers, or any special equipment, and must be on-site and accessible to the AO.


(2) For each Coriolis meter, the following values and corresponding units of measurement must be displayed:


(i) The instantaneous density of liquid (pounds/bbl, pounds/gal, or degrees API);


(ii) The instantaneous indicated volumetric flow rate through the meter (bbl/day);


(iii) The meter factor;


(iv) The instantaneous pressure (psi);


(v) The instantaneous temperature ( °F);


(vi) The cumulative gross standard volume through the meter (non-resettable totalizer) (bbl); and


(vii) The previous day's gross standard volume through the meter (bbl).


(3) The following information must be correct, be maintained in a legible condition, and be accessible to the AO at the FMP without the use of data collection equipment, laptop computers, or any special equipment:


(i) The make, model, and size of each sensor; and


(ii) The make, range, calibrated span, and model of the pressure and temperature transducer used to determine gross standard volume.


(4) A log must be maintained of all meter factors, zero verifications, and zero adjustments. For zero adjustments, the log must include the zero value before adjustment and the zero value after adjustment. The log must be made available upon request.


(f) *Audit trail requirements.* The information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section must be recorded and retained under the recordkeeping requirements of § 3170.7 of this part. Audit trail requirements must follow API 21.2, Subsection 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). All data must be available and submitted to the BLM upon request.


(1) *Quantity transaction record (QTR).* Follow the requirements for a measurement ticket in § 3174.12(b) of this subpart.


(2) *Configuration log.* The configuration log must comply with the requirements of API 21.2, Subsection 10.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). The configuration log must contain and identify all constant flow parameters used in generating the QTR.


(3) *Event log.* The event log must comply with the requirements of API 21.2, Subsection 10.6 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). In addition, the event log must be of sufficient capacity to record all events such that the operator can retain the information under the recordkeeping requirements of § 3170.7 of this part.


(4) *Alarm log* The type and duration of any of the following alarm conditions must be recorded:


(i) Density deviations from acceptable parameters; and


(ii) Instances in which the flow rate exceeded the manufacturer's maximum recommended flow rate or was below the manufacturer's minimum recommended flow rate.


(g) *Data protection.* Each Coriolis meter must have installed and maintained in an operable condition a backup power supply or a nonvolatile memory capable of retaining all data in the unit's memory to ensure that the audit trail information required under paragraph (f) of this section is protected.




