# § 48.6412-2   Definitions for purposes of floor stocks credit or refund.

For purposes of section 6412 and the regulations thereunder—


(a) *Floor stocks.* The term “floor stocks” means any article subject to the tax imposed by section 4071 or section 4081 which—


(1) Is sold by the manufacturer (otherwise than in a tax-free sale) before October 1, 1988,


(2) Is held by a dealer at the first moment on October 1, 1988, and has not been used, and


(3) Is intended for sale.


(b) *Inventory date.* The term “inventory date” means the first moment on the date on which an article is treated as floor stocks within the meaning of paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Dealer.* The term “dealer” includes a wholesaler, jobber, distributor, or retailer.


(d) *Held by a dealer*—(1) *In general.* (i) An article is considered as “held by a dealer” if title to the article has passed to the dealer (whether or not delivery to the dealer has been made), and if, for purposes of consumption, title to or possession of the article has not at any time been transferred to any person other than a dealer.


(ii) Floor samples, demonstrators, and articles undergoing repair (whether or not on the dealer's premises) that are carried in stock to be sold as new articles, and articles purchased tax-paid by a manufacturer or a sales subsidiary and held by the person on the inventory date for resale as such, will be considered as unused and held by a dealer, if title to or possession of the article has not at any time been transferred to any person for purposes of consumption.


(iii) Articles sold by a dealer to a consumer before the inventory date and thereafter repossessed by the dealer, and articles purchased tax-paid by a manufacturer for use in further manufacture within the meaning of section 4221(d)(6), will not be considered as held by a dealer.


(iv) The determination as to the time title or possession passes for purposes of consumption shall be made under applicable local law.


(2) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (d) may be illustrated by the following examples:


(e) *Old rate.* The term “old rate” means the rate of tax in effect with respect to the sale of an article before the date designated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section on which the tax is reduced in rate or is terminated.


(f) *New rate.* The term “new rate” means the rate of tax, if any, in effect with respect to the sale of an article on the date designated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section on which the tax is reduced in rate or is terminated.


(g) *Dealer request limitation date.* The term “dealer request limitation date” is the date prescribed by section 6412(a)(1) before which the request on which the manufacturer's claim is based must be submitted to the manufacturer by the dealer who held the floor stocks on the inventory date. In the case of an article held by a dealer on October 1, 1988, the dealer request limitation date is January 1, 1989.


(h) *Claim limitation date.* The term “claim limitation date” means the last date prescribed by section 6412(a)(1) on which refund or credit with respect to floor stocks may be claimed by a manufacturer. In the case of an article held by a dealer on October 1, 1988, the claim limitation date is March 31, 1989.


(i) *Tax paid.* A tax is considered paid if it was paid or was offset by an allowable credit on the return on which it was reported.



---

[N] [T.D. 8043, 50 FR 32021, Aug. 8, 1985]




