# ยง 351.307   Verification of information.

(a) *Introduction.* Prior to making a final determination in an investigation or issuing final results of review, the Secretary may verify relevant factual information. This section clarifies when verification will occur, the contents of a verification report, and the procedures for verification.


(b) *In general.* (1) Subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the Secretary will verify factual information upon which the Secretary relies in:


(i) A final determination in a continuation of a previously suspended countervailing duty investigation (section 704(g) of the Act), countervailing duty investigation, continuation of a previously suspended antidumping investigation (section 705(a) of the Act), or antidumping investigation;


(ii) The final results of an expedited antidumping review;


(iii) A revocation under section 751(d) of the Act;


(iv) The final results of an administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review, if the Secretary decides that good cause for verification exists; and


(v) The final results of an administrative review if:


(A) A domestic interested party, not later than 100 days after the date of publication of the notice of initiation of review, submits a written request for verification; and


(B) The Secretary conducted no verification under this paragraph during either of the two immediately preceding administrative reviews.


(2) The Secretary may verify factual information upon which the Secretary relies in a proceeding or a segment of a proceeding not specifically provided for in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) If the Secretary decides that, because of the large number of exporters or producers included in an investigation or administrative review, it is impractical to verify relevant factual information for each person, the Secretary may select and verify a sample.


(4) The Secretary may conduct verification of a person if that person agrees to verification and the Secretary notifies the government of the affected country and that government does not object. If the person or the government objects to verification, the Secretary will not conduct verification and may disregard any or all information submitted by the person in favor of use of the facts available under section 776 of the Act and ยง 351.308.


(c) *Verification report.* The Secretary will report the methods, procedures, and results of a verification under this section prior to making a final determination in an investigation or issuing final results in a review.


(d) *Procedures for verification.* The Secretary will notify the government of the affected country that employees of the Department will visit with the persons listed below in order to verify the accuracy and completeness of submitted factual information. The notification will, where practicable, identify any member of the verification team who is not an officer of the U.S. Government. As part of the verification, employees of the Department will request access to all files, records, and personnel which the Secretary considers relevant to factual information submitted of:


(1) Producers, exporters, or importers;


(2) Persons affiliated with the persons listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, where applicable;


(3) Unaffiliated purchasers, or


(4) The government of the affected country as part of verification in a countervailing duty proceeding.




