# § 99.52   How are the net emissions attributable to all wells at a WEC applicable facility that were permanently shut-in and plugged in the reporting year quantified?

(a) For the purposes of this section, the following source types (as specified in part 98, subpart W of this chapter) constitute emissions directly attributable to an onshore petroleum and natural gas production, offshore petroleum and natural gas production, or underground natural gas storage well, as applicable:


(1) Wellhead equipment leaks.


(2) Liquids unloading.


(3) Completions and workovers with hydraulic fracturing.


(4) Completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing.


(5) Associated natural gas venting and flaring.


(6) Well testing.


(7) Drilling mud degassing.


(b) Calculate the annual emissions attributable to each well that was permanently shut-in and plugged during the reporting year and included in the submittal pursuant to § 99.51 using equations E-1, E-2, E-3, or E-4 of this section, as applicable.


(1) For onshore petroleum and natural gas production wells that are part of a WEC applicable facility that are permanently shut-in and plugged in reporting years 2025 and later, equation E-1 of this section must be used to quantify the methane emissions directly attributable to each permanently shut-in and plugged well.


(2) For onshore petroleum and natural gas production wells that are part of a WEC applicable facility that are permanently shut-in and plugged in reporting year 2024, equation E-2 of this section must be used to quantify the methane emissions attributable to the well:


(3) For offshore petroleum and natural gas production wells that are part of a WEC applicable facility that are permanently shut-in and plugged in any reporting year, equation E-3 of this section must be used to quantify the methane emissions attributable to the well.


(4) For underground natural gas storage wells that are part of a WEC applicable facility that are permanently shut-in and plugged in any reporting year, equation E-4 of this section must be used to quantify the methane emissions attributable to the well.


(5) You must quantify equipment leak methane emissions from the permanently shut-in and plugged well at the WEC applicable facility in accordance with the methods in (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must use the same calculation method for equipment leaks reported pursuant to § 98.236(q) or (r) of this chapter in the part 98 report for the well-pad site or facility, as applicable, which is associated with the permanently shut-in and plugged well.


(i) If equipment leak surveys and measurement were used to quantify methane emissions from the permanently shut-in and plugged well and reported pursuant to § 98.236(q) of this chapter in the part 98 report for a WEC applicable facility, you must calculate the methane emissions (*i.e.,* E_Measured Leak, CH4_) for each measured wellhead leak in accordance with equation E-5A. The sum of the quantified methane emissions from each measured wellhead leak at the permanently shut-in and plugged well calculated in accordance with equation E-5A shall be considered “E_Leaks,_ CH_4_” in Equations E-1 and E-4 of this section, as applicable.


(ii) If equipment leak surveys and leaker emission factors were used to quantify methane emissions from the permanently shut-in and plugged well and reported pursuant to § 98.236(q) of this chapter in the part 98 report for a WEC applicable facility, equation E-5B of this section must be used to calculate E_Leaks,CH4_.


(iii) If equipment leaks by population count were used to quantify methane emission from the permanently shut-in and plugged well and reported pursuant to § 98.236(r) of this chapter in the part 98 report for a WEC applicable facility, equation E-5C of this section must be used to calculate E_Leaks,CH4._

(6) For onshore petroleum and natural gas production wells that are part of a WEC applicable facility that are permanently shut-in and plugged in reporting years 2025 and later, equation E-6 of this section must be used to quantify the methane emissions attributable to the well from associated gas flaring and completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring:


(c) Calculate the total emissions attributable to all wells included in the submittal received pursuant to § 99.51 using equation E-7 of this section:


