# § 233.6   Test purchases under 39 U.S.C. 3005(e).

(a) *Scope.* This section, which implements 39 U.S.C. 3005(e), supplements any postal regulations or instructions regarding test purchases or test purchase procedures. It is limited to test purchases conducted according to 39 U.S.C. 3005(e). 


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Test purchase.* The acquisition of any article or service, for which money or property are sought through the mails, from the person or representative offering the article or service. The purpose is to investigate possible violations of postal laws. 


(2) *Test Purchase Request.* A written document requesting the sale of an article or service pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3005(e) and containing the following information: 


(i) The name and address of the person, firm, or corporation to whom the request is directed; 


(ii) The name, title, signature, office mailing address, and office telephone number of the person making the request; 


(iii) A description of the article or service requested which is sufficient to enable the person to whom the request is made to identify the article or service being sought; 


(iv) A statement of the nature of the conduct under investigation; 


(v) A statement that the article or service must be tendered at the time and place stated in the purchase request, unless the person making the request and the person to whom it is made agree otherwise in writing; 


(vi) A verbatim statement of 39 U.S.C. 3005, 3007; and 


(vii) A statement that failure to provide the requested article or service may be considered in a proceeding under 39 U.S.C. 3007 to determine whether probable cause exists to believe that 39 U.S.C. 3005 is being violated. 


(c) *Service of Test Purchase Request.* (1) The original of the Test Purchase Request must be delivered to the person, firm, or corporation to whom the request is made or to his or its representative. It must be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount for which the article or service is offered for sale, made payable to the person, firm or corporation making the offer.


(2) The person serving the Test Purchase Request must make and sign a record, stating the date and place of service and the name of the person served. The person making the request must retain a copy of the Test Purchase Request, the record of service, and the money order receipt or a photocopy of the issued check or the cancelled check. Alternatively, the request may be made by certified mail. 


(d) *Authorizations.* The Chief Postal Inspector is the principal officer of the Postal Service for the administration of all matters governing test purchases under this section. The Chief Inspector may delegate any or all authority in this regard to any or all postal inspectors.



---

[N] [49 FR 7230, Feb. 28, 1984; 49 FR 8250, Mar. 6, 1984] 




