# § 570.41   Medical escorted trips.

(a) Medical escorted trips are intended to provide an inmate with medical treatment not available within the institution. There are two types of medical escorted trips.


(1) *Emergency medical escorted trip.* An escorted trip occurring as the result of an unexpected life-threatening medical situation requiring immediate medical treatment not available at the institution. The required treatment may be on either an in-patient or out-patient basis.


(2) *Non-emergency medical escorted trip.* A pre-planned escorted trip for the purpose of providing an inmate with medical treatment ordinarily not available at the institution. The required treatment may be on either an in-patient or out-patient basis.


(b) The Clinical Director or designee is responsible for determining whether a medical escorted trip is appropriate.


(c) *Escorted trip procedures—out-patient medical treatment.* A recommendation for an inmate to receive a medical escorted trip is prepared by medical staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden for review. The Warden may approve an inmate for an out-patient medical escorted trip.


(d) *Escorted trip procedures—in-patient medical treatment.* A recommendation for an inmate to receive a medical escorted trip is prepared by medical staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. The Warden may approve an inmate for an in-patient medical escorted trip.



---

[N] [50 FR 48366, Nov. 22, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 21158, May 18, 1992]




