# § 291.2   Definitions.

*All-cargo air transportation* means the transportation by aircraft in interstate air transportation of only property or only mail, or both.


*Interstate air transportation* means the transportation of passengers or property by aircraft as a common carrier for compensation, or the transportation of mail by aircraft—


(1) Between a place in—


(i) A State, territory, or possession of the United States and a place in the District of Columbia or another State, territory, or possession of the United States;


(ii) Hawaii and another place in Hawaii through the airspace over a place outside Hawaii;


(iii) The District of Columbia and another place in the District of Columbia; or


(iv) A territory or possession of the United States and another place in the same territory or possession; and


(2) When any part of the transportation is by aircraft.


*Reporting carrier* for Schedule T-100 purposes means the air carrier in operational control of the aircraft, i.e., the carrier that uses its flight crew under its own FAA operating authority. 


*Section 41102 carrier* means an air carrier certificated under section 41102 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII to transport persons, property and mail or property and mail only.


*Section 41103 carrier* means an air carrier holding a certificate issued under section 41103 of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII to provide all-cargo air transportation.


*Service, scheduled cargo* means transport service operated pursuant to published flight schedules including extra sections. There is no requirement on the number of weekly flights nor is there a requirement that the schedule be published in the Official Airline Guide. 


*Wet-Lease Agreement* means an agreement under which one carrier leases an aircraft with flight crew to another air carrier.



---

[N] [60 FR 43525, Aug. 22, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 49226, July 30, 2002; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15933, Apr. 16, 2019]




