# § 98.61   Allotments from the Discretionary Fund.

(a) To the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico an amount equal to the funds appropriated for the Child Care and Development Block Grant, less amounts reserved for technical assistance, research, and the national hotline and Web site, pursuant to § 98.60(b), and amounts reserved for the Territories and Tribes, pursuant to § 98.60(b) and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, shall be allotted based upon the formula specified in section 658O(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9858m(b)).


(b) For the U.S. Territories of Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands an amount up to one-half of one percent of the amount appropriated for the Child Care and Development Block Grant shall be reserved.


(1) Funds shall be allotted to these Territories based upon the following factors:


(i) A Young Child factor—the ratio of the number of children in the Territory under five years of age to the number of such children in all Territories; and


(ii) An Allotment Proportion factor—determined by dividing the per capita income of all individuals in all the Territories by the per capita income of all individuals in the Territory.


(A) Per capita income shall be:


(*1*) Equal to the average of the annual per capita incomes for the most recent period of three consecutive years for which satisfactory data are available at the time such determination is made; and


(*2*) Determined every two years.


(B) Per capita income determined, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, will be applied in establishing the allotment for the fiscal year for which it is determined and for the following fiscal year.


(C) If the Allotment Proportion factor determined at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section:


(*1*) Exceeds 1.2, then the Allotment Proportion factor of the Territory shall be considered to be 1.2; or


(*2*) Is less than 0.8, then the Allotment Proportion factor of the Territory shall be considered to be 0.8.


(2)(i) The formula used in calculating a Territory's allotment is as follows:


(ii) For purposes of the formula specified at paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the term “YCF_t_” means the Territory's Young Child factor as defined at paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(iii) For purposes of the formula specified at paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the term “APF_t_” means the Territory's Allotment Proportion factor as defined at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(c) For Indian Tribes and tribal organizations, including any Alaskan Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) not less than two percent of the amount appropriated for the Child Care and Development Block Grant shall be reserved.


(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, grants to individual tribal grantees will be equal to the sum of:


(i) A base amount as set by the Secretary; and


(ii) An additional amount per Indian child under age 13 (or such similar age as determined by the Secretary from the best available data), which is determined by dividing the amount of funds available, less amounts set aside for eligible Tribes, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, by the number of all Indian children living on or near tribal reservations or other appropriate area served by the tribal grantee, pursuant to § 98.80(e).


(2) Grants to Tribes with fewer than 50 Indian children that apply as part of a consortium, pursuant to § 98.80(b)(1), are equal to the sum of:


(i) A portion of the base amount, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, that bears the same ratio as the number of Indian children in the Tribe living on or near the reservation, or other appropriate area served by the tribal grantee, pursuant to § 98.80(e), does to 50; and


(ii) An additional amount per Indian child, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(3) Tribal consortia will receive grants that are equal to the sum of the individual grants of their members.


(d) All funds reserved for Territories at paragraph (b) of this section will be allotted to Territories, and all funds reserved for Tribes at paragraph (c) of this section will be allotted to tribal grantees. Any funds that are returned by the Territories after they have been allotted will revert to the Federal government.


(e) For other organizations, up to $2,000,000 may be reserved from the tribal funds reserved at paragraph (c) of this section. From this amount the Secretary may award a grant to a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in section 4009(4) of the Augustus F. Hawkins-Robert T. Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Amendments of 1988 (20 U.S.C. 4909(4)) and to a private non-profit organization established for the purpose of serving youth who are Indians or Native Hawaiians. The Secretary will establish selection criteria and procedures for the award of grants under this subsection by notice in the _Federal Register._

(f) Lead Agencies shall expend any funds that may be set-aside for targeted activities pursuant to annual appropriations law as directed by the Secretary.



---

[N] [63 FR 39981, July 24, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 67591, Sept. 30, 2016]




