# ยง 147.51   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this subpart:


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS, the Service).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*NPIP or Plan.* The National Poultry Improvement Plan.


*NPIP Program Standards.* A document that contains tests and sanitation procedures approved by the Administrator under ยง 147.53 for use under this subchapter. This document may be obtained from the NPIP Web site at *http://www.poultryimprovement.org/* or by writing to the Service at National Poultry Improvement Plan, APHIS, USDA, 1506 Klondike Road, Suite 101, Conyers, GA 30094.


*NPIP Technical Committee.* A committee made up of technical experts on poultry health, biosecurity, surveillance, and diagnostics. The committee consists of representatives from the poultry and egg industries, universities, and State and Federal governments and is appointed by the Senior Coordinator and approved by the General Conference Committee. The NPIP Technical Committee is divided into three subcommittees (Mycoplasma, Salmonella, and Avian Influenza). NPIP Technical Committee Members may serve on one, two, or all three subcommittees. The committee will evaluate proposed changes to the Provisions and Program Standards of the Plan which include, but are not limited to, tests and sanitation procedures, and provide recommendations to the Delegates of the National Plan Conference as to whether they are scientifically or technically sound.



---

[N] [79 FR 38766, July 9, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 28355, June 19, 2018]




