# § 3.11   Definitions.

(a) As used in the regulations in this part and as defined in section 607(k) of the Act—


(1) The term *eligible vessel* means any vessel—


(i) Constructed in the United States, and if reconstructed, reconstructed in the United States,


(ii) Documented under the laws of the United States, and


(iii) Operated in the foreign or domestic commerce of the United States or in the fisheries of the United States. Any vessel which was constructed outside of the United States but documented under the laws of the United States on April 15, 1970, or constructed outside the United States for use in the U.S. foreign trade pursuant to a contract entered into before April 15, 1970, shall be treated as satisfying the requirements of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and the requirements of subparagraph (2)(i) of this section.


(2) The term *qualified vessel* means any vessel—


(i) Constructed in the United States and, if reconstructed, reconstructed in the United States,


(ii) Documented under the laws of the United States, and


(iii) Which the person maintaining the fund agrees with the Secretary of Commerce will be operated in the U.S. foreign, Great Lakes, or noncontiguous domestic trade or in the fisheries of the United States.


(3) The term *agreement vessel* means any eligible vessel or qualified vessel which is subject to an agreement entered into under section 607 of the Act.


(4) The term *vessel* includes cargo handling equipment which the Secretary of Commerce determines is intended for use primarily on the vessel. The term “vessel” also includes an ocean-going towing vessel or an ocean-going barge or comparable towing vessel or barge operated in the Great Lakes.


(b) Insofar as the computation and collection of taxes are concerned, other terms used in the regulations in this part, except as otherwise provided in the Act or this part, have the same meaning as in the Code and the regulations thereunder.




