# 9.104-7   Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters, in solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.


(b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.209-7, Information Regarding Responsibility Matters, in solicitations where the resultant contract value is expected to exceed $600,000.


(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters—


(1) In solicitations where the resultant contract value is expected to exceed $600,000; and


(2) In contracts in which the offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of the provision at 52.209-7.


(d) The contracting officer shall insert the provision 52.209-11, Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law, in all solicitations.


(e) For agencies receiving funds subject to section 523 of Division B of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and similar provisions in subsequent appropriations acts, the contracting officer shall insert the provision 52.209-12, Certification Regarding Tax Matters, in solicitations for which the resultant contract (including options) may have a value greater than $5.5 million. Division B of the Consolidated and Continuing Further Appropriations Act, 2015 appropriates funds for the following agencies: the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the National Science Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. International Trade Commission, the Legal Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal Commission, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, and the State Justice Institute.



---

[N] [73 FR 21798, Apr. 22, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 14065, Mar. 23, 2010;77 FR 201, Jan. 3, 2012; 80 FR 38296, July 2, 2015; 80 FR 75906, Dec. 4, 2015; 84 FR 19844, May 6, 2019; 85 FR 62488, Oct. 2, 2020]




