# ยง 66.402   Audit or examination of records.

(a) Any interested person who has knowledge of or information regarding a possible violation of this part may file a written statement or complaint with the Administrator.


(1) Written statements or complaints filed with the Administrator must include the following:


(i) Complete identifying information about the product in question;


(ii) A detailed explanation of the alleged regulatory violation; and


(iii) Name and contact information of the person filing the statement or complaint.


(2) Written statements or complaints should be addressed to Director, Food Disclosure and Labeling Division, AMS Fair Trade Practices Program, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250; or submitted through the NBFDS Compliance Portal on the AMS website at *https://www.ams.usda.gov/be.*

(3) The Administrator will determine whether reasonable grounds exist for an investigation of such complaint.


(b) If the Administrator determines that further investigation of a complaint is warranted, an audit, examination, or similar activity may be conducted with respect to the records of the entity responsible for the disclosures.


(c) Notice regarding records audits or examinations or similar activities will be provided in accordance with ยง 66.304(a) and (b).


(d) At the conclusion of the audit or examination of records or similar activity, AMS will make the findings available to the entity that was the subject of the investigation.


(e) If the entity that is the subject of the audit or examination of records or similar activity objects to any findings, it may request a hearing in accordance with ยง 66.404.




