# § 63.2470   What requirements must I meet for storage tanks?

(a) *General.* You must meet each emission limit in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to your storage tanks, and except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, you must also meet each applicable requirement specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section and §§ 63.2492 and 63.2493(a) through (c).


(b) *General for storage tanks in ethylene oxide service.* On and after the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(i), paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section do not apply to storage tanks in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550.


(c) *Exceptions to subparts SS and WW of this part.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, if you conduct a performance test or design evaluation for a control device used to control emissions only from storage tanks, you must establish operating limits, conduct monitoring, and keep records using the same procedures as required in subpart SS of this part for control devices used to reduce emissions from process vents instead of the procedures specified in §§ 63.985(c), 63.998(d)(2)(i), and 63.999(b)(2). You must also comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4), as applicable.


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, when the term “storage vessel” is used in subparts SS and WW of this part, the term “storage tank,” as defined in § 63.2550 applies for the purposes of this subpart.


(3) For adsorbers that cannot be regenerated or regenerative adsorbers that are regenerated offsite, you must comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.2450(e)(7) in lieu of § 63.995(c).


(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(i), you must comply with paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The exemptions for “vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities” and “pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere” listed in the definition of “storage tank” in § 63.2550 do not apply for storage tanks in ethylene oxide service.


(ii) For storage tanks in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550, you may not use a design evaluation to determine the percent reduction of any control device that is used to comply with an emission limit specified in Table 4 to this subpart.


(d) *Planned routine maintenance.* The emission limits in Table 4 to this subpart for control devices used to control emissions from storage tanks do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance. Periods of planned routine maintenance of each control device, during which the control device does not meet the emission limit specified in Table 4 to this subpart, must not exceed 240 hours per year (hr/yr). You may submit an application to the Administrator requesting an extension of this time limit to a total of 360 hr/yr. The application must explain why the extension is needed, it must indicate that no material will be added to the storage tank between the time the 240-hr limit is exceeded and the control device is again operational, and it must be submitted at least 60 days before the 240-hr limit will be exceeded. 


(e) *Vapor balancing alternative.* As an alternative to the emission limits specified in Table 4 to this subpart, you may elect to implement vapor balancing in accordance with § 63.1253(f), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) When § 63.1253(f)(6)(i) refers to a 90 percent reduction, 95 percent applies for the purposes of this subpart. 


(2) To comply with § 63.1253(f)(6)(i), the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning or reloading facility must comply with §§ 63.2445 through 63.2550 instead of complying with § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii), except as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) The reporting requirements in § 63.2520 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.


(ii) As an alternative to complying with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in §§ 63.2445 through 63.2550, the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning or reloading facility may comply as specified in § 63.2535(a)(2) with any other subpart of this part 63 which has monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions as specified in § 63.2535(a)(2).


(3) You may elect to set a pressure relief device to a value less than the 2.5 psig required in § 63.1253(f)(5) if you provide rationale in your notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times.


(4) You may comply with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.1253(f) when your storage tank is filled from a barge. All requirements for tank trucks and railcars specified in § 63.1253(f) also apply to barges, except as specified in § 63.2470(e)(4)(i).


(i) When § 63.1253(f)(2) refers to pressure testing certifications, the requirements in 40 CFR 61.304(f) apply for barges.


(ii) [Reserved]


(f) *Storage tank degassing.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), for each storage tank subject to item 1 of Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section during storage tank shutdown operations (*i.e.,* emptying and degassing of a storage tank) until the vapor space concentration in the storage tank is less than 10 percent of the LEL. You must determine the concentration using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.


(1) Remove liquids from the storage tank as much as practicable.


(2) Comply with one of the following:


(i) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare.


(ii) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 95 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of non-flare control devices.


(iii) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by routing emissions to a fuel gas system or process and meet the requirements specified in § 63.982(d) and the applicable requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4).


(3) Maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 63.2450(u) including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.


(4) For floating roof storage tanks, the storage tank may be opened to set up equipment (e.g., making connections to a temporary control device) for the shutdown operations but must not be actively degassed during this time period.





---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38559, July 1, 2005; 71 FR 40335, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49140, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 23868, Apr. 4, 2024]




