# § 38.16   Service animals.

(a) *General.* Generally, a recipient shall modify its policies, practices, or procedures to permit the use of a service animal by an individual with a disability.


(b) *Exceptions.* A recipient may ask an individual with a disability to remove a service animal from the premises if—


(1) The animal is out of control and the animal's handler does not take effective action to control it; or


(2) The animal is not housebroken.


(c) *If an animal is properly excluded.* If a recipient properly excludes a service animal under paragraph (b) of this section, the recipient must give the individual with a disability the opportunity to participate in the WIOA Title I-financially assisted service, program, or activity without having the service animal on the premises.


(d) *Animal under handler's control.* A service animal must be under the control of its handler. A service animal must have a harness, leash, or other tether, unless either the handler is unable because of a disability to use a harness, leash, or other tether, or the use of a harness, leash, or other tether would interfere with the service animal's safe, effective performance of work or tasks, in which case the service animal must be otherwise under the handler's control (*e.g.,* voice control, signals, or other effective means).


(e) *Care or supervision.* A recipient is not responsible for the care or supervision of a service animal.


(f) *Inquiries.* A recipient must not ask about the nature or extent of a person's disability, but may make two inquiries to determine whether an animal qualifies as a service animal. A recipient may ask if the animal is required because of a disability and what work or task the animal has been trained to perform. A recipient must not require documentation, such as proof that the animal has been certified, trained, or licensed as a service animal. Generally, a recipient may not make these inquiries about a service animal when it is readily apparent that an animal is trained to do work or perform tasks for an individual with a disability (*e.g.,* the dog is observed guiding an individual who is blind or has low vision, pulling a person's wheelchair, or providing assistance with stability or balance to an individual with an observable mobility disability).


(g) *Access to areas of a recipient's facilities.*

(1) *In general.* Individuals with disabilities must be permitted to be accompanied by their service animals in all areas of a recipient's facilities where members of the public, participants in services, programs or activities, beneficiaries, registrants, applicants, eligible applicants/registrants, applicants for employment and employees, or invitees, as relevant, are allowed to go.


(2) *Use of service animals in food preparation areas.* An employee, applicant or beneficiary with a disability who needs to use a service animal in a food preparation area must be allowed to do so unless the employer recipient, after an individualized assessment, can demonstrate, that the presence of the service animal presents a direct threat to health or safety that cannot be eliminated or reduced by a reasonable accommodation to the employee, applicant or beneficiary.


(h) *Surcharges.* A recipient must not ask or require an individual with a disability to pay a surcharge because of the individual's service animal, even if people accompanied by pets are required to pay fees, or to comply with other requirements generally not applicable to people without pets. If a recipient normally charges individuals for the damage they cause, an individual with a disability may be charged for damage caused by the individual's service animal.




