# § 224.101   Enumeration of endangered marine and anadromous species.

(a) The regulations in this part identify the species under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Commerce that have been determined to be endangered species pursuant to section 4(a) of the Act, and provide for the conservation of such species by establishing rules and procedures to governing activities involving the species.


(b) The regulations in this part apply only to the endangered species enumerated in this section.


(c) The provisions of this part are in addition to, and not in lieu of, other regulations of parts 222 through 226 of this chapter which prescribe additional restrictions or conditions governing endangered species.


(d) The table below identifies the species under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Commerce that have been determined to be endangered pursuant to section 4(a) of the Act, species treated as endangered because they are sufficiently similar in appearance to endangered species, and experimental populations of endangered species.


(e) The columns entitled “Common name,” “Scientific name,” and “Description of listed entity” define the species within the meaning of the Act. In the “Common name” column, experimental populations are identified as “XE” for essential populations or “XN” for nonessential populations. Species listed based on similarity of appearance are identified as “S/A.” Although a column for “Common name” is included, common names cannot be relied upon for identification of any specimen, because they may vary greatly in local usage. The “Scientific name” column provides the most recently accepted scientific name, relying to the extent practicable on the *International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.* In cases in which confusion might arise, a synonym(s) will be provided in parentheses. The “Description of listed entity” column identifies whether the listed entity comprises the entire species, a subspecies, or a distinct population segment (DPS) and provides a description for any DPSs. Unless otherwise indicated in the “Description of listed entity” column, all individual members of the listed entity and their progeny retain their listing status wherever found, including individuals in captivity. Information regarding the general range of the species, subspecies, or DPS may be found in the _Federal Register_ notice(s) cited in the “Citation(s) for listing determination(s)” column.


(f) The “Citation(s) for listing determination(s)” column provides reference to the _Federal Register_ notice(s) determining the species' status under the Act. The abbreviation “(SPR)” (significant portion of its range) after a citation indicates that the species was listed based on its status in a significant portion of its range. If a citation does not include the “(SPR)” notation, it means that the species was listed based on its status throughout its entire range. For “(SPR)” listings, a geographical description of the SPR may be found in the referenced _Federal Register_ Notice. The “(SPR)” notation serves an informational purpose only and does not imply any limitation on the application of the prohibitions or restrictions of the Act or implementing rules.


(g) The “Critical habitat” and “ESA rules” columns provide cross-references to other sections in this part and part 226. The term “NA” appearing in the “Critical habitat” column indicates that there are no critical habitat designations for that species; similarly, the term “NA” appearing in the “ESA rules” column indicates that there are no ESA rules for that species. However, all other applicable rules in parts 222 through 226 and part 402 still apply to that species. Also, there may be other rules in this title that relate to such wildlife. The “ESA rules” column is not intended to list all Federal, state, tribal, or local governmental regulations that may apply to the species.


(h) The endangered species under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Commerce are:



---

[N] [79 FR 20814, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 31227, June 2, 2014; 79 FR 38241, July 3, 2014; 79 FR 68372, Nov. 17, 2014; 79 FR 74005, Dec. 12, 2014; 79 FR 78725, Dec. 31, 2014; 80 FR 7978, Feb. 13, 2015; 80 FR 7390, Feb. 10, 2015; 80 FR 60564, Oct. 7, 2015; 81 FR 20090, Apr. 6, 2016; 81 FR 50400, Aug. 1, 2016; 81 FR 62320, Sept. 8, 2016; 81 FR 72549, Oct. 20, 2016; 82 FR 7720, Jan. 23, 2017; 82 FR 21740, May 10, 2017; 82 FR 43710, Septt. 19, 2017; 83 FR 21186, May 9, 2018; 83 FR 35091, July 24, 2018]; 84 FR 15487, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 81836, Dec. 17, 2020; 86 FR 21152, Apr. 21, 2021; 86 FR 47024, Aug. 23, 2021; 86 FR 74380, Dec. 30, 2021; 89 FR 12985, Feb. 21, 2024]





