# ยง 155.5065   Procedures for plan submission and approval.

(a) An owner or operator of a nontank vessel to which this subpart applies must submit one complete English language copy of a vessel response plan to Commandant electronically by using the Vessel Response Plan Electronic Submission Tool for registered users available at *https://vrp.uscg.mil/homeport-vrp/vrp-express/* or by mail to Commandant (CG-MER), Attn: Vessel Response Plans, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7516, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20593-7516 or by email to *vrp@uscg.mil*. The plan must be submitted at least 60 days before the vessel intends to operate upon the navigable waters of the United States.


(b) The owner or operator of a nontank vessel must include a statement certifying that the VRP meets the applicable requirements of this subpart and the requirements of subparts D, E, F, and G, if applicable. The vessel owner or operator must also include a statement certifying that the vessel owner or operator has ensured the availability of, through contract or other approved means, the necessary private response resources to respond, to the maximum extent practicable, to a worst-case discharge or substantial threat of such a discharge from their vessel as required under this subpart.


(c) If the Coast Guard determines that the VRP meets all requirements of this subpart, the Coast Guard will notify the vessel owner or operator with an approval letter. The VRP will be valid for a period of 5 years from the date of approval, conditional upon satisfactory annual updates.


(d) If the Coast Guard reviews the VRP and determines that it does not meet all of the requirements of this subpart, the Coast Guard will notify the vessel owner or operator of the VRP deficiencies. The vessel owner or operator must then resubmit a copy of the revised VRP or corrected portions of the VRP, within the time period specified in the written notice provided by the Coast Guard.



---

[N] [USCG-2008-1070, 78 FR 60124, Sept. 30, 2013, as amended by USCG-2014-0410, 79 FR 38437, July 7, 2014; USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35083, July 28, 2017; USCG-2023-0759, 89 FR 22948, Apr. 3, 2024]




