# § 98.473   Calculating CO

(a) You must calculate and report the annual mass of CO_2_ received by pipeline using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and the procedures in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if applicable.


(1) For a mass flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of CO_2_ in a CO_2_ stream received in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the CO_2_ concentration in the flow, according to Equation UU-1 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.474.


(2) For a volumetric flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of CO_2_ in a CO_2_ stream received in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow at standard conditions by the CO_2_ concentration in the flow and the density of CO_2_ at standard conditions, according to Equation UU-2 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.474.


(3) If you receive CO_2_ through more than one flow meter, you must sum the mass of all CO_2_ received in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation UU-3 of this section.


(b) You must calculate and report the annual mass of CO_2_ received in containers using the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) If you are measuring the mass of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.474(a)(2)(i), you must calculate the CO_2_ received in containers using Equation UU-1 of this section.


(2) If you are measuring the volume of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.474(a)(2)(ii), you must calculate the CO_2_ received in containers using Equation UU-2 of this section.



---

[N] [75 FR 75078, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 71981, Nov. 29, 2013]




