# § 592.200   Debarment.

(a) The following acts or practices or the causing thereof may be deemed sufficient cause for the debarment by the Administrator of any person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, from any or all benefits of the Act for a specified period. 


(1) Misrepresentation, or deceptive or fraudulent act or practice. Any willful misrepresentation or any deceptive or fraudulent act or practice found to be made or committed by any person in connection with: 


(i) The making or filing of an application for any service or appeal; 


(ii) The making of the product accessible for sampling or inspection; 


(iii) The making, issuing, or using, or attempting to issue or use, any certificate, symbol, stamp, label, seal, or identification authorized pursuant to the regulations in this part; 


(iv) The use of the terms “United States,” “U.S.,” “U.S. Inspected,” “Government Inspected,” or terms of similar import in the labeling or advertising of any product; 


(v) The use of any official stamp, symbol, label, seal, or identification in the labeling or advertising of any product. 


(2) *Use of facsimile forms.* Using or attempting to use a form that simulates in whole or in part any certificate, symbol, stamp, label, seal, or identification authorized to be issued or used under the regulations in this part. 


(3) Willful violation of the regulations. Any willful violation of the regulations in this part or of the Act. 


(4) Interfering with inspection program personnel or program employee of the Agency. Any interference with or obstruction or any attempted interference or obstruction of or assault upon any inspection program personnel or program employee of the Agency in the performance of their duties. The giving or offering, directly or indirectly, of any money, loan, gift, or anything of value to a program employee of the Agency, or the making or offering of any contribution to or in any way supplementing the salary, compensation or expenses of a program employee of the Agency, or the offering or entering into a private contract or agreement with a program employee of the Agency for any services to be rendered while employed by the Agency. 


(5) *Miscellaneous.* The existence of any of the conditions set forth in § 592.150 constituting the basis for the rejection of an application for inspection service. 




