# ยง 460.60   PACE organizational structure.

(a) *Program director.* The organization must employ, or contract with in accordance with ยง 460.70, a program director who is responsible for oversight and administration of the entity. 


(b) *Medical director.* The organization must employ, or contract with in accordance with ยง 460.70, a medical director who is responsible for the delivery of participant care, for clinical outcomes, and for the implementation, as well as oversight, of the quality improvement program.


(c) *Organizational chart.* (1) The PACE organization must have a current organizational chart showing officials in the PACE organization and relationships to any other organizational entities.


(2) The chart for a corporate entity must indicate the PACE organization's relationship to the corporate board and to any parent, affiliate, or subsidiary corporate entities.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a PACE organization planning a change in organizational structure must notify CMS and the State administering agency, in writing, at least 14 days before the change takes effect.


(d) *Change of ownership.* A PACE organization planning a change of ownership must comply with all requirements in 42 CFR part 422, subpart L, and must notify CMS and the State administering agency, in writing, at least 60 days before the anticipated effective date of the change.





---

[N] [64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 61505, Oct. 1, 2002; 71 FR 71334, Dec. 8, 2006; 84 FR 25673, June 3, 2019]




