# ยง 886.119   Responsibilities of the owner.

(a) The Owner shall be responsible for management and maintenance of the project in conformance with requirements of the Regulatory Agreement. These responsibilities shall include but not be limited to: 


(1) Payment for utilities and services (unless paid directly by the Family), insurance and taxes; 


(2) Performance of all ordinary and extraordinary maintenance; 


(3) Performance of all management functions, including the taking of applications; determining eligibility of applicants in accordance with part 5 of this title; selection of families, including verification of income, in accordance with part 5 of this title, obtaining and verifying Social Security Numbers submitted by applicants (as provided by part 5, subpart B, of this title), obtaining signed consent forms from applicants for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies (as provided in part 5, subpart B, of this title), and other pertinent requirements; and determination of the amount of tenant rent in accordance with HUD established schedules and criteria.


(4) Collection of Tenant Rents; 


(5) Termination of tenancies, including evictions;


(6) Preparation and furnishing of information required under the Contract; 


(7) Reexamination of family income and composition, redetermination, as appropriate, of the amount of Tenant Rent and the amount of housing assistance payment in accordance with part 5 of this title; collection of rent; obtaining and verifying participant Social Security Numbers, as provided by part 5, subpart B, of this title; and obtaining signed consent forms from participants for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by part 5, subpart B, of this title.


(8) Redeterminations of amount of Tenant Rent and amount of Housing Assistance Payment in accordance with part 5 of this title as a result of an adjustment by HUD of any applicable Utility Allowance; and 


(9) Compliance with equal opportunity requirements. 


(b) In the event of a financial default under the project mortgage, HUD shall have the right to make subsequent Housing Assistance Payments to the mortgagee until such time as the default is cured, or, at the option of the mortgagee and subject to HUD approval, until some other agreed-upon time. 


(c) Subject to HUD approval, any Owner may contract with any private or public entity to perform for a fee the services required by paragraph (a) of this section: *Provided,* That such contract shall not shift any of the Owner's responsibilities or obligations.



---

[N] [42 FR 5603, Jan. 28, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 19948, May 10, 1984; 51 FR 11227, Apr. 1, 1986; 53 FR 847, Jan. 13, 1988; 53 FR 1165, Jan. 15, 1988; 53 FR 3368, Feb. 5, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 54 FR 39708, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7542, Feb. 22, 1991; 60 FR 14846, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 9047, Mar. 6, 1996; 61 FR 11119, Mar. 18, 1996; 65 FR 16723, Mar. 29, 2000]




