# ยง 128.302   How does SBA process applications for certification?

(a) SBA's Director of Government Contracting (D/GC) (or designee) is authorized to approve or deny applications for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB. An applicant must be eligible as of the date SBA issues a decision.


(b) SBA, in its sole discretion, may request clarification of information relating to eligibility at any time in the eligibility determination process. SBA will take into account any clarifications made by an Applicant in response to such a request.


(c) SBA, in its sole discretion, may request additional documentation at any time in the eligibility determination process. Failure to adequately respond to the documentation request shall constitute grounds for a denial. If an Applicant does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may draw an adverse inference and presume that the information that the Applicant failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility and deny certification on this basis.


(d) An Applicant's eligibility will be based on the totality of circumstances, including facts set forth in the application, supporting documentation, any information received in response to any SBA request for clarification, and any changed circumstances. The Applicant bears the burden of proof to demonstrate its eligibility as a VOSB or SDVOSB.


(1) If a concern submits inconsistent information that results in SBA's inability to determine the concern's compliance with any of the VOSB or SDVOSB eligibility requirements, SBA will decline the concern's application.


(2) If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines that an applicant has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application.


(e) The Applicant must inform SBA of any changed circumstances that occur during its application review and that could affect its eligibility for the program (*e.g.,* change in size status, ownership, or control, filing of bankruptcy, or calling to active duty) and may withdraw its application at that time. Changed circumstances will be considered by SBA in determining an Applicant's eligibility and may constitute grounds for denial of the application. The D/GC may propose decertification for any VOSB or SDVOSB that failed to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.


(f) The decision of the D/GC to approve or deny an application will be in writing. A decision to deny certification status will state the specific reason(s) for denial and will inform the Applicant of any appeal rights.


(1) If SBA denies a business concern's application for VOSB or SDVOSB certification, within two days of SBA's denial becoming a final agency decision, the applicant concern must update its VOSB or SDVOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) to reflect that the concern is not an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB.


(i) If an applicant appeals the D/GC's denial decision to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) in accordance with part 134 of this chapter and OHA affirms the ineligibility determination, the two-day requirement applies immediately upon OHA's final decision.


(ii) If an applicant does not appeal the D/GC's denial decision to OHA, the two-day requirement begins 10 business days after receipt of the D/GC's denial.


(2) If a business concern fails to update its VOSB or SDVOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) after a final SBA decision, SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.


(g) If the D/GC approves the application, the period of program eligibility will be specified in the concern's certification letter.


(h) SBA will send a copy of the decision letter to the electronic mail address provided with the application. SBA will consider any decision sent to this electronic mail address provided to have been received by the applicant concern. It is the responsibility of the Applicant to ensure all contact information is current in the certification database.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 42592, July 3, 2023; 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024]






