# ยง 3280.702   Definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply to subpart H only. 


*Accessible,* when applied to a fixture, connection, appliance or equipment, means having access thereto, but which may require the removal of an access panel, door or similar obstruction. 


*Air conditioner blower coil system* means a comfort cooling appliance where the condenser section is placed external to the manufactured home and evaporator section with circulating blower attached to the manufactured home air supply duct system. Provision must be made for a return air system to the evaporator/blower section. Refrigerant connection between the two parts of the system is accomplished by tubing. 


*Air conditioner split system* means a comfort cooling appliance where the condenser section is placed external to the manufactured home and the evaporator section incorporated into the heating appliance or with a separate blower/coil section within the manufactured home. Refrigerant connection between the two parts of the system is accomplished by tubing. 


*Air conditioning condenser section* means that portion of a refrigerated air cooling or (in the case of a heat pump) heating system which includes the refrigerant pump (compressor) and the external heat exchanger. 


*Air conditioning evaporator section* means a heat exchanger used to cool or (in the case of a heat pump) heat air for use in comfort cooling (or heating) the living space. 


*Air conditioning self contained system* means a comfort cooling appliance combining the condenser section, evaporator and air circulating blower into one unit with connecting ducts for the supply and return air systems. 


*Air duct* means conduits or passageways for conveying air to or from heating, cooling, air conditioning or ventilation equipment, but not including the plenum. 


*Automatic pump (oil lifter)* means a pump, not an integral part of the oil-burning appliance, that automatically pumps oil from the supply tank and delivers the oil under a constant head to an oil-burning appliance. 


*Btu. British thermal units* means the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. 


*Btuh* means British thermal units per hour. 


*Burner* means a device for the final conveyance of fuel or a mixture of fuel and air to the combustion zone. 


*Central air conditioning system* means either an air conditioning split system or an external combination heating/cooling system. 


*Class 0 air ducts and air connectors* means air ducts and air connectors having a fire hazard classification of zero when tested in accordance with UL 181-2003, Factory-Made Air Ducts and Air Connectors (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4).


*Class 1 air ducts and air connectors* means air ducts and air connectors having a flame spread rating of not over 25 without evidence of continued progressive combustion and a smoke developed rating of not over 50 when tested in accordance with UL 181-2003, Standard for Safety Factory-Made Air Ducts and Air Connectors (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4).


*Clearance* means the distance between the appliance, chimney, vent, chimney or vent connector or plenum and the nearest surface.


*Combination space heating and water heating appliance* means a listed unit that is designed to provide space heating and water heating from a single primary energy source.


*Connector-Gas appliance:* means a flexible or semi-rigid connector used to convey fuel gas between a gas outlet and a gas appliance. 


*Direct-vent system* means a system or method of construction where all air for combustion is derived directly from the outside atmosphere and all flue gases are discharged to the outside atmosphere.


*Direct-vent system appliance* means an appliance that is installed with a direct vent system.


*External combination heating/cooling system* means a comfort conditioning system placed external to the manufactured home with connecting ducts to the manufactured home for the supply and return air systems. 


*Factory-built fireplace* means a hearth, fire chamber and chimney assembly composed of listed factory-built components assembled in accordance with the terms of listing to form a complete fireplace. 


*Fireplace stove* means a chimney connected solid fuel-burning stove having part of its fire chamber open to the room. 


*Fuel gas piping system* means the arrangement of piping, tubing, fittings, connectors, valves and devices designed and intended to supply or control the flow of fuel gas to the appliance(s). 


*Fuel oil piping system* means the arrangement of piping, tubing, fittings, connectors, valves and devices designed and intended to supply or control the flow of fuel oil to the appliance(s). 


*Gas clothes dryer* means a device used to dry wet laundry by means of heat derived from the combustion of fuel gases. 


*Gas refrigerator* means a gas-burning appliance which is designed to extract heat from a suitable chamber. 


*Gas supply connection* means the terminal end or connection to which a gas supply connector is attached. 


*Gas supply connector, manufactured home* means a listed flexible connector designed for connecting the manufactured home to the gas supply source. 


*Gas vents* means factory-built vent piping and vent fittings listed by an approved testing agency, that are assembled and used in accordance with the terms of their listings, for conveying flue gases to the outside atmosphere.


(1) *Type B gas vent* means a gas vent for venting gas appliances with draft hoods and other gas appliances listed for use with Type B gas vents.


(2) *Type BW gas vent* means a gas vent for venting listed gas-fired vented wall furnaces. 


*Heat producing appliance* means all heating and cooking appliances and fuel burning appliances. 


*Heating appliance* means an appliance for comfort heating, domestic water heating, or a combination of comfort heating and domestic water heating.


*Liquefied petroleum gases.* The terms *Liquefied petroleum gases, LPG* and *LP-Gas* as used in this standard shall mean and include any material which is composed predominantly of any of the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them: propane, propylene butanes (normal butane or isobutane), and butylenes. 


*Plenum* means an air compartment which is part of an air-distributing system, to which one or more ducts or outlets are connected.


(1) Furnace supply plenum is a plenum attached directly to, or an integral part of, the air supply outlet of the furnace.


(2) Furnace return plenum is a plenum attached directly to, or an integral part of, the return inlet of the furnace. 


*Quick-disconnect device* means a hand-operated device which provides a means for connecting and disconnecting a gas supply or connecting gas systems and which is equipped with an automatic means to shut off the gas supply when the device is disconnected. 


*Readily accessible* means direct access without the necessity of removing any panel, door, or similar obstruction. 


*Roof jack* means that portion of a manufactured home heater flue or vent assembly, including the cap, insulating means, flashing, and ceiling plate, located in and above the roof of a manufactured home. 


*Sealed combustion system appliance* means an appliance which by its inherent design is constructed so that all air supplied for combustion, the combustion system of the appliance, and all products of combustion are completely isolated from the atmosphere of the space in which it is installed. 


*Water heater* means an appliance for heating water for domestic purposes.



---

[N] [40 FR 58752, Dec. 18, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 20679, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 4586, Feb. 12, 1987; 58 FR 55015, Oct. 25, 1993; 78 FR 73987, Dec. 9, 2013]




