# § 401.211   Requirements for training of Apprentice Pilots and Limited Registration Authorization.

(a) The Director will determine the number of Apprentice Pilots required to be in training by each association authorized to form a pilotage pool in order to assure an adequate number of United States Registered Pilots.


(b) No Apprentice Pilot will be selected for training unless:


(1) The individual meets the requirements and qualifications set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4), (6), (8), and (9) of § 401.210;


(2) The individual must not have reached the age of 60; and


(3) The individual possesses a Radar Observer-Unlimited endorsement on their MMC in accordance with § 11.480.


(c) For purpose of determining whether an applicant meets the experience requirements contained in § 401.210(a)(1), not more than 12 months of “comparable experience” may be used in fulfilling the 24-month experience requirement.


(d) The Director must approve the United States Registered Pilots or Temporary Registered Pilots designated by the authorized pilot organization to provide training to those Pilots in training to be United States Registered Pilots.


(e) Persons desiring to be considered as an Apprentice Pilot must file with the Director a completed Application Form CG-4509 by email to: *GreatLakesPilotage@uscg.mil;* or by mail to: Great Lakes Pilotage Office, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave SE, Mail Stop 7509, Washington, DC 20593-7509. Upon the request of the Director, the person desiring to be considered as an Apprentice Pilot must submit two full-face passport style photographs, signed on the photo, vertically, as close to the head as possible.


(f) Applicants meeting the minimum requirements of this section who are both selected by the association and approved by the Director will be issued a U.S. Coast Guard Apprentice Pilot Identification Card. Such Card is valid until such time as:


(1) The expiration of a term determined by the Director;


(2) The Apprentice Pilot is registered as a Pilot under § 401.210;


(3) The Apprentice Pilot withdraws from the training program; or


(4) The card is ordered withdrawn by the Director.


(g) The Apprentice Pilot must have a Director-approved individual training plan. The Apprentice Pilot, along with the pilot association, will record all their round trips, as per their individual training plan, and provide this information to the Director for review. Round trips completed as an Apprentice Pilot will count toward Full Registration.


(h) The appropriate pilot association must complete a Semi-annual Performance Evaluation Report on the Apprentice Pilot twice a year, to assess the Apprentice Pilot's progress in the approved U.S. Great Lakes pilot training and qualification program at the established pilotage pool. The evaluation must be submitted to the Director by August 15 and January 15 of each season. The report should provide a recommendation to the Director on whether to keep the Apprentice Pilot in the training program.


(i) The Apprentice Pilot must be enrolled in the association's chemical testing program. The chemical testing program must meet the requirements of 46 CFR part 16. For the purposes of this part, the association is deemed to be the Sponsoring Organization as defined in 46 CFR 16.105.


(j) To facilitate the training of the Apprentice Pilot, the Director may authorize Limited Registration to the Apprentice Pilot, upon the request from the pilot association. The Apprentice Pilot obtains a Limited Registration by completing and recording the requirements set forth in § 401.220(b)(1). Limited Registration periods will not exceed 6 months before the need to request a renewal; the specific period is determined by the Director per 46 CFR 401.110(9). The Apprentice Pilot must maintain a favorable performance evaluation via their Semi-annual Performance Evaluation Reports, and the Director must determine a need for the Pilot. At any time, this authorization may be revoked at the discretion of the Director.


(k) An Apprentice Pilot may be eligible for a Certificate of Registration, after:


(1) The mariner completes a Director-approved U.S. Great Lakes Pilot training and qualification program in one of the Great Lakes' pilot associations;


(2) The appropriate pilot association gives the mariner a positive endorsement;


(3) The mariner passes the Director's exam; and


(4) The Director determines that the association needs an additional Pilot.



---

[N] [29 FR 10465, July 28, 1964] 


