# § 1700.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Direct costs* are those expenditures which ODNI actually incurs in the processing of a FOIA request. It includes, but is not limited to, the salary of the employee performing the work and costs associated with duplication. It does not include overhead factors such as space.


(b) *Fees* are those direct costs which may be assessed considering the categories established by the FOIA. Requesters should submit information to assist ODNI in determining the proper fee category. ODNI may draw reasonable inferences from the identity and activities of the requester in making fee determinations. The fee categories include:


(1) *Commercial use request.* A request seeking information for a use or purpose that furthers the requester's commercial, trade, or profit interests, including pursuit of those interests through litigation.


(2) *Educational institution.* Any institution that operates a program or programs of scholarly research. To be in this category, a requester must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use but are sought to further scholarly research. ODNI may seek assurance from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in this category.


(3) *Non-commercial scientific institution.* An institution that is not operated on a commercial basis and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. To be in this category, a requester must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use but are sought to further scientific research.


(4) *Representative of the news media.* Any person or entity that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that concerns current events or that would be of interest to the public.


(c) *Freedom of Information Act, FOIA,* or *the Act* is the statute as codified at 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.


(d) *FOIA Public Liaison* is the individual designated by the Chief FOIA Officer to assist FOIA requesters with concerns about ODNI's processing of their FOIA requests, including assistance in resolving disputes.


(e) *Information Review & Release Group (“IRRG”) Chief* is the ODNI employee to whom the Chief of the ODNI Information Management Office (IMO) has delegated their responsibility for processing FOIA requests.


(f) *ODNI* is the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and its component organizations. This does not include other members of the Intelligence Community as defined in 50 U.S.C. 3003, or other federal entities subsequently designated in accordance with this authority, unless specifically designated and included in this part or in the notice of a system of records.


(g) *OGIS* is the Office of Government Information Services within the National Archives and Records Administration.


(h) *Pages* are paper copies of standard office size or the dollar value equivalent in other media.


(i) *Person* is an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization other than an agency.


(j) *Record* is any document, irrespective of physical or electronic form, made or received by ODNI in pursuance of federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and appropriate for preservation by ODNI as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of ODNI or because of the informational value of the data contained therein.


(k) *Reproduction* is the generation of a copy of a requested record in a form appropriate for release.


(l) *Requester* is a person, organization, or other entity who submits a written or electronic communication requesting information on or concerning the FOIA program, the availability of records from ODNI, or both.


(m) *Review* means all time expended in examining a record to determine whether any portion must be withheld pursuant to law and in effecting any required deletions. This does not include personnel hours expended in resolving general legal or policy issues.


(n) *Search* means all time expended in looking for and retrieving material that may be responsive to a request.






