# § 23.39   What are other ACDBE certification requirements?

(a) The provisions of § 26.83(c)(1) of this chapter do not apply to certifications for purposes of this part. Instead, in determining whether a firm is an eligible ACDBE, you must take the following steps:


(1) Visit the firm's principal place of business, virtually or in person, and interview the SEDO, officers, and key personnel. You must review those persons' résumés and/or work histories. You must maintain a complete audio recording of the interviews. The certifier must also visit one or more active job sites (if there is one). These activities comprise the “on-site review” (OSR), a written report of which the certifier must keep in its files.


(2) Analyze documentation related to the legal structure, ownership, and control of the applicant firm. This includes, but is not limited to, articles of incorporation/organization; corporate by-laws or operating agreements; organizational, annual and board/member meeting records; stock ledgers and certificates; and State-issued certificates of good standing;


(3) Analyze the bonding and financial capacity of the firm; lease and loan agreements; and bank account signature cards;


(4) Determine the work history of the firm, including any concession contracts or other contracts it may have received; and payroll records;


(5) Obtain or compile a list of the licenses of the firm and its key personnel to perform the concession contracts or other contracts it wishes to receive;


(6) Obtain a statement from the firm of the type(s) of concession(s) it prefers to operate or the type(s) of other contract(s) it prefers to perform;


(7) Obtain complete Federal income tax returns (or requests for extensions) filed by the firm, its affiliates, and the socially and economically disadvantaged owners for the last 5 years. A complete return includes all forms, schedules, and statements filed with the Internal Revenue Service; and


(8) Require applicants for ACDBE certification to complete and submit an appropriate application form, except as otherwise provided in § 26.85 of this chapter.


(b) In reviewing the Declaration of Eligibility required by § 26.83(j) of this chapter, you must ensure that the ACDBE applicant provides documentation that it meets the applicable size standard in § 23.33.


(c) For purposes of this part, the term *prime contractor* in § 26.87(j) of this chapter includes a firm holding a contract with an airport concessionaire to provide goods or services to the concessionaire or a firm holding a prime concession agreement with a recipient.


(d) With respect to firms owned by Alaska Native Corporations (ANCs), the provisions of § 26.63(c)(2) of this chapter do not apply. The eligibility of ANC-owned firms for purposes of this part is governed by § 26.63(c)(1) of this chapter.


(e) You must use the Uniform Certification Application found in part 26 of this chapter without change. However, you may provide in your ACDBE program, with the written approval of the concerned Operating Administration, for supplementing the form by requesting specified additional information consistent with this part. The applicant must state that it is applying for certification as an ACDBE and complete all of section 5.


(f) Car rental companies and private terminal owners or lessees are not authorized to certify firms as ACDBEs. As a car rental company or private terminal owner or lessee, you must obtain ACDBE participation from firms which a recipient or UCPs have certified as ACDBEs.



---

[N] [89 FR 24961, Apr. 9, 2024]






