# § 26.68   Bond, TTB Form 5130.16—Beer.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, where a brewer intends to withdraw, for purpose of shipment to the United States, beer of Puerto Rican manufacture from bonded storage in Puerto Rico on computation, but before payment, of the tax imposed by 26 U.S.C. 7652(a), equal to the tax imposed in the United States by 26 U.S.C. 5051, the brewer must, before making any such withdrawal, furnish a bond. The brewer must furnish the bond on TTB Form 5130.16, to secure payment of such tax, at the time and in the manner prescribed in this subpart, on all beer so withdrawn. The bond must be executed in a penal sum not less than the amount of unpaid tax which, at any one time, is chargeable against the bond. The penal sum of such bond must not exceed $500,000, but in no case will the penal sum be less than $1,000.


(b) *Bond exemption for certain brewers based on tax liability.* A brewer who pays tax on a deferred basis under § 26.112 is not required to furnish a bond under this section to cover shipments of beer during any portion of a calendar year for which the brewer is eligible to use an annual or quarterly return period under § 26.112(b)(2) or (b)(3). For purposes of the preceding sentence, the brewer is considered to be paying tax on a deferred basis even if the brewer does not pay tax during every relevant period as long as the brewer intends to pay tax in a future period. TTB may require a brewer who has defaulted on any payment to prepay tax as provided in § 26.112(e).



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1131, Jan. 4, 2017]




