# § 410.56   Screening pelvic examinations.

(a) *Conditions for screening pelvic examinations.* Medicare Part B pays for a screening pelvic examination (including a clinical breast examination) if it is performed by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy (as defined in section 1861(r)(1) of the Act), or by a certified nurse midwife (as defined in section 1861(gg) of the Act), or a physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinic nurse specialist (as defined in section 1861(aa) of the Act) who is authorized under State law to perform the examination.


(b) *Limits on coverage of screening pelvic examinations.* The following limitations apply to coverage of screening pelvic examination services:


(1) *General rule.* Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, payment may be made for a pelvic examination performed on an asymptomatic woman only if the individual has not had a pelvic examination paid for by Medicare during the preceding 23 months following the month in which her last Medicare-covered screening pelvic examination was performed.


(2) *More frequent screening based on high-risk factors.* Subject to the limitation as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, payment may be made for a screening pelvic examination performed more frequently than once every 24 months if the test is performed by a physician or other practitioner specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and there is evidence that the woman is at high risk (on the basis of her medical history or other findings) of developing cervical cancer or vaginal cancer, as determined in accordance with the following risk factors:


(i) High risk factors for cervical cancer:


(A) Early onset of sexual activity (under 16 years of age).


(B) Multiple sexual partners (five or more in a lifetime).


(C) History of a sexually transmitted disease (including HIV infection).


(D) Absence of three negative or any Pap smears within the previous 7 years.


(ii) High risk factor for vaginal cancer: DES (diethylstilbestrol)-exposed daughters of women who took DES during pregnancy.


(3) *More frequent screening for women of childbearing age.* Subject to the limitation as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, payment may be made for a screening pelvic examination performed more frequently than once every 24 months if the test is performed by a physician or other practitioner as specified in paragraph (a) of this section for a woman of childbearing age who has had an examination that indicated the presence of cervical or vaginal cancer or other abnormality during any of the preceding 3 years. The term “woman of childbearing age” means a woman who is premenopausal, and has been determined by a physician, or a qualified practitioner, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, to be of childbearing age, based on her medical history or other findings.


(4) *Limitation applicable to women at high risk and those of childbearing age.* Payment is not made for a screening pelvic examination for women considered to be at high risk (under any of the criteria described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), or who qualify for coverage under the childbearing provision (under the criteria described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) more frequently than once every 11 months after the month that the last screening pelvic examination covered by Medicare was performed. 



---

[N] [62 FR 59101, Oct. 31, 1997; 63 FR 4596, Jan. 30, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 55329, Nov. 1, 2001]




