# § 1.987-3T   Determination of section 987 taxable income or loss of an owner of a section 987 QBU (temporary).

(a) through (b)(2)(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(a) through (b)(2)(i).


(ii) *No translation of basis or amount realized with respect to a specified owner functional currency transaction treated as a historic asset.* If the acquisition of a historic asset gives rise to a specified owner functional currency transaction described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the basis of the historic asset, and any amount realized on a disposition of the historic asset, is not translated if the amount is denominated in the owner's functional currency.


(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(b)(3).


(4) *Special rule for section 988 transactions*—(i) *In general.* Section 988 and the regulations thereunder apply to section 988 transactions of a section 987 QBU. For this purpose, whether a transaction is a section 988 transaction is determined by reference to the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. (But see paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, providing that specified owner functional currency transactions are not treated as section 988 transactions.) However, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, section 988 gain or loss is determined in, and by reference to, the functional currency of the owner of the section 987 QBU rather than the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. Accordingly, in determining section 988 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU with respect to a section 988 transaction of the section 987 QBU, the amounts required under section 988 and the regulations thereunder to be translated on the applicable booking date or payment date with respect to the section 988 transaction are translated into the owner's functional currency at the rate required under section 988 and the regulations thereunder.


(ii) *Specified owner functional currency transactions not treated as section 988 transactions.* Transactions of a section 987 QBU described in sections 988(c)(1)(B)(i), 988(c)(1)(B)(ii), and 988(c)(1)(C) (including the acquisition of nonfunctional currency as described in § 1.988-1(a)(1)), other than transactions described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, that are denominated in (or determined by reference to) the owner's functional currency (specified owner functional currency transactions) are not treated as section 988 transactions. Thus, no currency gain or loss is recognized by a section 987 QBU under section 988 with respect to such transactions.


(iii) *Determination of section 988 gain or loss for qualified short-term section 988 transactions*—(A) *Determination by reference to the section 987 QBU's functional currency for certain transactions subject to a mark-to-market method of accounting.* Section 988 gain or loss with respect to section 988 transactions described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section that are accounted for under a mark-to-market method of accounting for Federal income tax purposes or under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) of this section, and any hedges entered into to manage risk with respect to such transactions within the meaning of § 1.1221-2(c)(4) (related hedges), must be determined in, and by reference to, the functional currency of the section 987 QBU (rather than the functional currency of its owner).


(B) *Qualified short-term section 988 transaction.* A qualified short-term section 988 transaction is a section 988 transaction that occurs in the ordinary course of a section 987 QBU's business and has an original term of one year or less on the date the transaction is entered into by the section 987 QBU. The holding of currency that is nonfunctional currency (within the meaning of section 988(c)(1)(C)(ii)) to the section 987 QBU in the ordinary course of a section 987 QBU's trade or business also is treated as a qualified short-term section 988 transaction. Any transaction that is denominated in, or determined by reference to, a hyperinflationary currency, including the holding of hyperinflationary currency, is not considered a qualified short-term section 988 transaction. See §§ 1.988-2(b)(15), 1.988-2(d)(5), and 1.988-2(e)(7) for rules relating to transactions denominated in, or determined by reference to, a hyperinflationary currency.


(C) *Election to use a foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting.* A taxpayer may elect under this paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) to apply the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting described in this paragraph for all qualified short-term section 988 transactions described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, and any related hedges, that are properly attributable to a section 987 QBU on or after the effective date of the election and that are not otherwise accounted for under a mark-to-market method of accounting under section 475 or section 1256. Under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting, the timing of section 988 gain or loss on section 988 transactions is determined under the principles of section 1256(a)(1). Thus, only section 988 gain or loss is taken into account under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting. Appropriate adjustments must be made to prevent the section 988 gain or loss from being taken into account again under section 988 or another provision of the Code or regulations. A section 988 transaction subject to this election is not subject to the “netting rule” of section 988(b) and § 1.988-2(b)(8), under which exchange gain or loss is limited to overall gain or loss realized in a transaction, in taxable years prior to the taxable year in which section 988 gain or loss would be recognized with respect to such section 988 transaction but for this election.


(iv) *Examples.* Examples 10 through 13 of paragraph (e) of this section illustrate the application of this paragraph (b)(4).


(c)(1) through (c)(2)(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(c)(1) through (c)(2)(i).


(ii) *Amount realized with respect to historic assets that are section 988 transactions.* If the acquisition of a historic asset gave rise to a section 988 transaction described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, then in computing the total gain or loss on a disposition of the historic asset (some or all of which total gain or loss may be section 988 gain or loss described in section 988(b) and paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section), the amount realized (determined, if necessary, under § 1.987-3(b)(2)(i)) is translated into the owner's functional currency using the spot rate on the date such item is properly taken into account, subject to the limitation under § 1.987-1T(c)(1)(ii)(B) regarding the use of a spot rate convention.


(iii) through (iv) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iii) through (iv).


(v) *Translation of income to account for certain foreign income tax claimed as a credit.* The owner of a section 987 QBU claiming a credit under section 901 for foreign income taxes, other than foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 902 or section 960, that are properly reflected on the books and records of the section 987 QBU (the creditable tax amount) must determine section 987 taxable income or loss attributable to the section 987 QBU by reducing the amount of section 987 taxable income or loss that otherwise would be determined under this section by an amount equal to the creditable tax amount, translated into U.S. dollars using the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year in which the creditable tax is accrued, and by increasing the resulting amount by an amount equal to the creditable tax amount, translated using the same exchange rate that is used to translate the creditable taxes into U.S. dollars under section 986(a). See *Example 14* of paragraph (e) of this section,, for an illustration of this rule.


(d) *Election to translate all items at the yearly average exchange rate.* Notwithstanding § 1.987-3(c), a taxpayer that has made the annual deemed termination election described in § 1.987-8T(d) may elect under this paragraph (d) to translate all items of income, gain, deduction, and loss with respect to a section 987 QBU determined under § 1.987-3(b) in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency, if necessary, at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year. *Example 9* of paragraph (e) of this section illustrates the application of this election.


(e) *Example 1* through *Example 8* [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(e), *Example 1* through *Example 8.*

(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after one year after the first day of the first taxable year following December 7, 2016. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a taxpayer makes an election under § 1.987-11(b), then this section applies to taxable years to which §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-10 apply as a result of such election.


(g) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on December 6, 2019.



---

[N] [T.D. 9795, 81 FR 88870, Dec. 8, 2016]




