# § 1.01-70   CERCLA delegations.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the definitions in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-510), as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-499), apply. The Act, as amended, is referred to in this section as CERCLA.


(b) The Assistant Commandant for Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection (CG-5) is delegated authority to take remedial action involving vessels under section 104 of CERCLA.


(c) Each Maintenance and Logistics Commander is delegated contract authority, consistent with each memorandum of understanding between the Coast Guard and the Environmental Protection Agency regarding CERCLA funding mechanisms, for the purpose of carrying out response actions pursuant to CERCLA sections 104(a), 104(b), 104(f), 104(g), 105(f), and 122.


(d) Each district commander is delegated authority as follows:


(1) Authority, pursuant to CERCLA section 106(a), to determine an imminent and substantial endangerment to the public health or welfare or the environment because of an actual or threatened release of a hazardous substance from a facility, and to secure such relief as may be necessary to abate such danger or threat through the United States attorney of the district in which the threat occurs.


(2) Authority, pursuant to section 109 of CERCLA, to assess penalties relating to violations of sections 103 (a) and (b) pertaining to notification requirements, section 108 pertaining to financial responsibility for release of hazardous substances from vessels, and section 122 pertaining to administrative orders and consent decrees. 


(3) Authority, pursuant to section 108 of CERCLA, to deny entry to any port or place in the United States or to the navigable waters of the United States and detain at any port or place in the United States any vessel subject to section 108(a) of CERCLA that, upon request, does not provide evidence of financial responsibility. 


(e) Subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12580, and paragraph (g) of this section, each Coast Guard official, predesignated as an On-Scene Coordinator, is delegated authority as follows:


(1) Authority, pursuant to CERCLA sections 104(a), 104(b), 104(c) and consistent with the National Contingency Plan, to remove or arrange for the removal of releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances, and of pollutants or contaminants which may present an imminent and substantial danger to the public health or welfare.


(2) Authority, pursuant to CERCLA section 104(i)(11), to take such steps as may be necessary to reduce exposure that presents a significant risk to human health, and to eliminate or substantially mitigate that significant risk to human health.


(3) Authority, pursuant to CERCLA section 106(a), to issue orders to protect the public health and welfare and the environment whenever that official determines that a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance from a facility may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to the public health or welfare or the environment.


(4) Authority, pursuant to CERCLA section 104(e), except section 104(e)(7)(C), to enter establishments or other places where hazardous substances are or have been generated, stored, treated, disposed of, or transported from to inspect and obtain records, reports, samples and information in support of the response functions delegated in paragraphs (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section.


(5) Authority, pursuant to CERCLA section 122, to enter into an agreement with any person (including the owner or operator of the vessel or facility from which a release or substantial threat of release emanates, or any other potential responsible person), to perform any response action, provided that such action will be done properly by such person.


(f) Except for the authority granted in paragraphs (d)(1) and (e)(1) of this section, each Coast Guard official to whom authority is granted in this section may redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of that authority. The authority granted in paragraph (e)(3) of this section may only be redelegated to commissioned officers.


(g) The response authority described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not include authority to—


(1) Summarily remove or destroy a vessel; or


(2) Take any other action that constitutes intervention under CERCLA, the Intervention on the High Seas Act (33 U.S.C. 1471 *et. seq.*), or other applicable laws. “Intervention” means any detrimental action taken against the interest of a vessel or its cargo without the consent of the vessel's owner or operator.



---

[N] [CGD 88-051, 53 FR 30259, Aug. 11, 1988, as amended by CGD 91-225, 59 FR 66484, Dec. 27, 1994; CGD 96-026, 61 FR 33662, June 28, 1996; CGD 97-023, 62 FR 33361, June 19, 1997; USCG-2002-12471, 67 FR 41331, June 18, 2002; USCG-2003-14505, 68 FR 9534, Feb. 28, 2003]




