# ยง 201.104   Disclosures for broiler grower ranking system payments.

(a) *Poultry grower ranking system records.* If a live poultry dealer engaged in the production of broilers uses a poultry grower ranking system to calculate broiler grower payments, the live poultry dealer must produce records in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The live poultry dealer must maintain these records for 5 years.


(b) *Placement Disclosure.* Within 24 hours of flock delivery to a broiler grower's facility, the live poultry dealer must provide all the following information to the broiler grower regarding the placement:


(1) The stocking density of the placement.


(2) Names and all ratios of breeds of the poultry delivered.


(3) If the live poultry dealer has determined the sex of the birds, all ratios of male and female poultry delivered.


(4) The breeder facility identifier.


(5) The breeder flock age.


(6) Information regarding any known health impairments of the breeder flock or of the poultry delivered.


(7) Adjustments, if any, that the live poultry dealer may make to the calculation of the grower's pay based on the inputs in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.


(c) *Poultry grower ranking system settlement documents.* In addition to the requirements of ยง 201.100 of this part, a live poultry dealer must provide disclosures to all broiler growers on the grouping or ranking sheets as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The disclosures need not show the names of other growers.


(1) Live poultry dealers must disclose the housing specification for each broiler grower grouped or ranked during the specified period.


(2) Live poultry dealers must disclose all the following information to each broiler grower participant ranked under a poultry grower ranking system:


(i) The stocking density for each placement in the ranking.


(ii) The names and all ratios of breeds of the poultry for each placement in the ranking.


(iii) If the live poultry dealer has determined the sex of the birds, all ratios of male and female poultry for each placement in the ranking.


(iv) All breeder facility identifiers for each placement in the ranking.


(v) The breeder flock age(s) for each placement in the ranking.


(vi) The number of feed disruptions each ranked broiler grower endured during the growout period where the grower was completely out of feed for 12 hours or more.



---

[N] [88 FR 83294, Nov. 28, 2023]




