# § 1006.230   Administrative and planning costs.

Up to such amount as HUD may authorize, or such other limit as may be specified by statute, of each grant received under the Act may be used for any reasonable administrative and planning expenses of the DHHL relating to carrying out the Act and this part and activities assisted with NHHBG funds, including: 


(a) *General management, oversight and coordination.* Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, necessary expenditures for the following: 


(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the DHHL's staff. In charging costs to this category the DHHL may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the NHHBG Program of each person whose *primary* responsibilities with regard to the program involves program administration assignments, or the prorated share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes *any* program administration assignments. The DHHL may use only one of these methods. Program administration includes the following types of assignments: 


(i) Developing systems and schedules for ensuring compliance with program requirements; 


(ii) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with entities receiving NHHBG funds; 


(iii) Monitoring NHHBG-assisted housing for progress and compliance with program requirements; 


(iv) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD; 


(v) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings; 


(vi) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and 


(vii) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section; 


(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program; 


(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services; and 


(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space. 


(b) *Staff and overhead.* Staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out a project or service, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, inspections, and other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants, and homebuyers (*e.g.,* housing counseling); and staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the a project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship. These costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs under § 1006.205 or service costs under §§ 1006.210 or 1006.215, at the discretion of the DHHL. 


(c) *Public information.* The provision of information and other resources to residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of projects being assisted with NHHBG funds. 


(d) *Indirect costs.* Indirect costs may be charged to the NHHBG Program under a cost allocation plan prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E. 


(e) *Preparation of the housing plan and reports.* Preparation of the housing plan under § 1006.101 and performance reports under § 1006.410. Preparation includes the costs of public hearings, consultations, and publication. 


(f) *Other Federal requirements.* Costs of complying with the Federal requirements in §§ 1006.370, 1006.375, and 1006.377 of this part. Project-specific environmental review costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs, at the discretion of the DHHL. 



---

[N] [67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015; 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]








