# ยง 426.17   Small reclamation projects.

(a) *Effect of the RRA on loan contracts made under the Small Reclamation Projects Act.* (1) If a district entered into a loan contract under the Small Reclamation Projects Act of 1956 (43 U.S.C. 422) (SRPA) on or after October 12, 1982, the contract is subject to the provisions of the SRPA, as amended by Section 223 of the RRA and as amended by Title III of Pub. L. 99-546.


(2) If a district entered into an SRPA loan contract prior to October 12, 1982, and the district:


(i) Did not amend the loan contract to conform to the SRPA, as amended by Section 223 of the RRA, prior to October 27, 1986, then the acreage provisions of the contract continue in effect, unless the contract is amended to conform to the SRPA as amended by section 307 of Pub. L. 99-546.


(ii) Amended the loan contract to conform to the SRPA, as amended by Section 223 of the RRA, prior to October 27, 1986, the contract is subject to the increased acreage provisions provided in Section 223 of the RRA. Reclamation cannot alter, modify or amend any other provision of the SRPA loan contract without the consent of the non-Federal party.


(b) *Other sections of these regulations that apply to SRPA loans.* No other sections of these regulations apply to SRPA loans, except as specified in ยง 426.3(a)(3)(ii) and paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Effect of SRPA loans in determining whether a district has repaid its construction obligations on a water service or repayment contract.* If a district has a water service or repayment contract in addition to an SRPA contract, Reclamation does not consider the SRPA loan:


(1) In determining whether the district has discharged its construction cost obligation for the project facilities;


(2) As a basis for reinstating acreage limitation provisions in a district that has completed payment of its construction cost obligation(s); or


(3) As a basis for increasing the construction obligation of the district and extending the period during which acreage limitation provisions will apply to that district.


(d) *Districts that have an SRPA loan contract and a contract as defined in ยง 426.2.* If a district has an SRPA loan contract and a contract as defined in ยง 426.2, the SRPA contract does not supersede the RRA requirements applicable to such contracts.




