# § 35.75   Release of individuals containing unsealed byproduct material or implants containing byproduct material.

(a) A licensee may authorize the release from its control of any individual who has been administered unsealed byproduct material or implants containing byproduct material if the total effective dose equivalent to any other individual from exposure to the released individual is not likely to exceed 5 mSv (0.5 rem). 
1

(b) A licensee shall provide the released individual, or the individual's parent or guardian, with instructions, including written instructions, on actions recommended to maintain doses to other individuals as low as is reasonably achievable if the total effective dose equivalent to any other individual is likely to exceed 1 mSv (0.1 rem). If the total effective dose equivalent to a nursing infant or child could exceed 1 mSv (0.1 rem) assuming there were no interruption of breast-feeding, the instructions must also include— 


(1) Guidance on the interruption or discontinuation of breast-feeding; and 


(2) Information on the potential consequences, if any, of failure to follow the guidance. 


(c) A licensee shall maintain a record of the basis for authorizing the release of an individual in accordance with § 35.2075(a). 


(d) The licensee shall maintain a record of instructions provided to a breast-feeding female in accordance with § 35.2075(b). 



---

[N] [67 FR 20370, Apr. 24, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 16363, Mar. 30, 2005; 72 FR 45151, Aug. 13, 2007]




