# § 334.670   Gulf of Mexico south and west of Apalachicola, San Blas, and St. Joseph bays; air-to-air firing practice range, Tyndall Air Force Base, Fla.

(a) *The danger zone.* Beginning at latitude 29°40′00″, longitude 85°21′30″, in the vicinity of Cape San Blas; thence southeasterly to latitude 29°23′00″, longitude 84°39′00″; thence southwesterly to latitude 28°39′00″, longitude 84°49′00″; thence northwesterly to latitude 29°43′00″, longitude 85°53′00″; thence northeasterly to latitude 29°56′30″, longitude 85°38′30″; and thence southeasterly to the point of beginning.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Air-to-air firing practice will ordinarily take place in the area during the hours of daylight, seven days per week. During periods of firing, passage through the area will not be denied to cargo-carrying or passenger-carrying vessels or tows proceeding on established routes. In case any such vessel is within the danger area, the officer in charge of firing practice operations will cause the cessation or postponement of fire until the vessel has cleared that part of the area within range of the weapons being used. The vessel shall proceed on its normal course and not delay its progress.


(2) All persons and vessels will be warned to leave the danger area during firing practice by surface patrol boat and/or patrol aircraft. When aircraft is used to patrol the area, low flight of the aircraft overhead and/or across the bow will be used as a signal or warning. Upon being so warned all persons and vessels shall clear the area immediately.


(3) The area will be open to all vessels whenever firing practice is not being conducted.


(4) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [16 FR 7460, July 31, 1951, as amended at 22 FR 3755, May 29, 1957. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17555, Apr. 10, 1997; 62 FR 24034, May 2, 1997]




