# § 700.16   Marking.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Activity* means a set of a recipient or subrecipient's actions using resources—such as commodities, technical assistance, or training to produce specific results, such as vaccinations given, schools built, microenterprise loans issued, or policies changed. The recipient or subrecipient undertakes activities to achieve the formally approved objectives of the award.


(2) *Branding strategy* means a strategy the apparently successful applicant or recipient submits describing how they will name and position the program, project, or activity and how they will promote and communicate it to beneficiaries and cooperating country citizens. In the branding strategy, the apparently successful applicant or recipient identifies all donors and explains how they will be acknowledged.


(3) *Marking plan* means a plan that the apparently successful applicant or recipient submits after merit review of an application for USAID funding, detailing the public communications, commodities, and program materials and other items that will visibly bear the USAID Identity.


(4) *Public communications* are documents and messages the recipient or subrecipient intends to distribute to external audiences. They include, but are not limited to, correspondence, publications, studies, reports, audio-visual productions, and other informational products; applications, forms, press and promotional materials used in connection with USAID-funded programs, projects or activities, including signage and plaques; websites/internet activities; and events such as training courses, conferences, seminars, and press conferences.


(5) *USAID Identity* (Identity) means the official marking for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) comprised of the USAID logo or seal and new brandmark with the tagline that clearly communicates our assistance is “from the American people.” Upon a written determination by the USAID Administrator, or delegate, the definition of the USAID Identity may be amended to include additional or substitute use of a logo or seal and tagline representing a presidential initiative or other high level interagency Federal initiative that requires consistent and uniform branding and marking by all participating agencies. The USAID Identity (including any required additional insignia or related identity) is available on the USAID website at *https://www.usaid.gov/branding* and is provided without royalty, license or other fee to recipients of USAID funded grants or cooperative agreements or other assistance awards.


(6) *Principal officer* means the most senior officer in an USAID Operating Unit in the field, for example, a USAID Mission Director or USAID Representative. For global programs managed from Washington but executed across many countries, such as disaster relief programs and assistance to internally displaced persons, humanitarian emergencies or immediate post conflict and political crisis responses, the cognizant Principal Officer may be an Office Director, for example, the Directors of USAID/W/Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance and Office of Transition Initiatives. For non-presence countries, the cognizant Principal Officer is the Senior USAID officer in a regional USAID Operating Unit responsible for the non-presence country, or in the absence of such a responsible operating unit, the Principal U.S Diplomatic Officer in the non-presence country exercising delegated authority from USAID.


(b) USAID policy is that a recipient or subrecipient must mark all programs, projects, activities, public communications, and commodities, specified further at paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, partially or fully funded by a USAID grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award or subaward with the USAID Identity, of a size and prominence equivalent to or greater than the recipient's, other donor's or any other third party's identity or logo.


(1) USAID reserves the right to require the USAID Identity to be larger and more prominent if it is the majority donor, or to require that a cooperating country government's identity be larger and more prominent if circumstances warrant; any such requirement will be on a case-by-case basis depending on the audience, program goals and materials produced.


(2) USAID reserves the right to request pre-production review of USAID funded public communications and program materials for compliance with the approved Marking Plan.


(3) USAID reserves the right to require marking with the USAID Identity in the event the recipient does not choose to mark with its own identity or logo.


(4) Recipients of USAID funded grants and cooperative agreements or other assistance awards must include a USAID-approved marking provision in any USAID funded subaward, to read as follows:


(c) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark program, project, or activity sites funded by USAID, including visible infrastructure projects (for example, roads, bridges, buildings) or other programs, projects, or activities that are physical in nature (for example, agriculture, forestry, water management), with the USAID Identity. The recipient or subrecipient should erect temporary signs or plaques early in the construction or implementation phase. When construction or implementation is complete, the recipient or subrecipient must install a permanent, durable sign, plaque or other marking.


(d) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark technical assistance, studies, reports, papers, publications, audio-visual productions, public service announcements, websites/internet activities and other promotional, informational, media, or communications products funded by USAID with the USAID Identity.


(1) Any “public communications” as defined in § 700.1, funded by USAID, in which the content has not been approved by USAID, must contain the following disclaimer:


(2) The recipient must provide the Agreement Officer's Representative (AOR) or other USAID personnel designated in the grant or cooperative agreement with at least two copies of all program and communications materials produced under the award. In addition, the recipient must submit one electronic and/or one hard copy of all final documents to USAID's Development Experience Clearinghouse.


(e) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark events financed by USAID such as training courses, conferences, seminars, exhibitions, fairs, workshops, press conferences and other public activities, with the USAID Identity. Unless directly prohibited and as appropriate to the surroundings, recipients should display additional materials such as signs and banners with the USAID Identity. In circumstances in which the USAID Identity cannot be displayed visually, recipients should otherwise acknowledge USAID and the American people's support.


(f) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark all commodities financed by USAID, including commodities or equipment provided under humanitarian assistance or disaster relief programs, and all other equipment, supplies and other materials funded by USAID, and their export packaging, with the USAID Identity.


(g) After merit review of applications for USAID funding, USAID Agreement Officers will request apparently successful applicants to submit a Branding Strategy, defined in § 700.1. The proposed Branding Strategy will not be evaluated competitively. The Agreement Officer will review the proposed Branding Strategy for adequacy, and will negotiate, approve and include the Branding Strategy in the award. The Agreement Officer will specify the timeline for submission in the Notice of Funding Opportunity. If the Notice of Funding Opportunity indicates that the apparently successful applicant may submit a Branding Strategy after the award is made, the Agreement Officer must include a special award condition to indicate the required submission date. If the Agreement Officer requires submission before award, failure to submit or negotiate a Branding Strategy within the time specified by the Agreement Officer will make the apparently successful applicant ineligible for award.


(h) After merit review of applications for USAID funding, USAID Agreement Officers will request apparently successful applicants to submit a Marking Plan, defined in § 700.1. The Marking Plan may include requests for approval of Presumptive Exceptions, paragraph (i) of this section. The apparently successful applicant must include all estimated costs associated with branding and marking USAID programs, such as plaques, labels, banners, press events, promotional materials, and the like, in the total cost estimate of the grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award. These costs are subject to revision and negotiation with the Agreement Officer upon submission of the Marking Plan. The Marking Plan will not be evaluated competitively. The Agreement Officer will review the proposed Marking Plan for adequacy, and will negotiate, approve and include the Marking Plan in the award. The Agreement Officer will specify the timeline for submission in the Notice of Funding Opportunity. If the Notice of Funding Opportunity indicates that the apparently successful applicant may submit a Marking Plan after the award is made, the Agreement Officer must include a special award condition to indicate the required submission date. If the Agreement Officer requires submission before award, failure to submit or negotiate a Marking Plan within the time specified by the Agreement Officer will make the apparently successful applicant ineligible for award. Agreement Officers have the discretion to suspend the implementation requirements of the Marking Plan if circumstances warrant. Recipients of a USAID funded grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award or subaward should retain copies of any specific marking instructions or waivers in their project, program or activity files.


(i) Presumptive exceptions:


(1) The above marking requirements in § 700.16(b) through (f) may not apply if marking would:


(i) Compromise the intrinsic independence or neutrality of a program or materials where independence or neutrality is an inherent aspect of the program and materials, such as election monitoring or ballots, and voter information literature; political party support or public policy advocacy or reform; independent media, such as television and radio broadcasts, newspaper articles and editorials; public service announcements or public opinion polls and surveys.


(ii) Diminish the credibility of audits, reports, analyses, studies, or policy recommendations whose data or findings must be seen as independent.


(iii) Undercut host-country government “ownership” of constitutions, laws, regulations, policies, studies, assessments, reports, publications, surveys or audits, public service announcements, or other communications better positioned as “by” or “from” a cooperating country ministry or government official.


(iv) Impair the functionality of an item, such as sterilized equipment or spare parts.


(v) Incur substantial costs or be impractical, such as items too small or other otherwise unsuited for individual marking, such as food in bulk.


(vi) Offend local cultural or social norms, or be considered inappropriate on such items as condoms, toilets, bed pans, or similar commodities.


(vii) Conflict with international law.


(2) The Agreement Officer must approve these exceptions. Apparently successful applicants may request approval of one or more of the presumptive exceptions, depending on the circumstances, in their Marking Plan. The Agreement Officer will review requests for presumptive exceptions for adequacy, along with the rest of the Marking Plan. When reviewing a request for approval of a presumptive exception, the Agreement Officer may review how program materials will be marked (if at all) if the USAID identity is removed. Exceptions approved will apply to subrecipients unless otherwise provided by USAID.


(j) In cases where the recipient does not comply with the Marking Plan, the Agreement Officer will initiate corrective action. Such action may involve informing the recipient of a USAID grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award or subaward of instances of noncompliance and requesting that the recipient carry out its responsibilities as set forth in the Marking Plan and award. Major or repeated non compliance with the Marking Plan will be governed by the uniform suspension and termination procedures set forth at 2 CFR 200.340 through 2 CFR 200.343, and 2 CFR 700.14.


(k)(1) *Waivers.* USAID Principal Officers may at any time after award waive in whole or in part the USAID approved Marking Plan, including USAID marking requirements for each USAID funded program, project, activity, public communication or commodity, or in exceptional circumstances may make a waiver by region or country, if the Principal Officer determines that otherwise USAID required marking would pose compelling political, safety, or security concerns, or marking would have an adverse impact in the cooperating country. USAID recipients may request waivers of the Marking Plan in whole or in part, through the AOR. No marking is required while a waiver determination is pending. The Principal Officer must make the waiver determination on safety or security grounds in consultation with U.S. Government security personnel if available, and must consider the same information that applies to determinations of the safety and security of U.S. Government employees in the cooperating country, as well as any information supplied by the AOR or the recipient for whom the waiver is sought. When reviewing a request for approval of a waiver, the Principal Officer may review how program materials will be marked (if at all) if the USAID Identity is removed. Approved waivers are not limited in duration but are subject to Principal Officer review at any time due to changed circumstances. Approved waivers “flow down” to recipients of subawards unless specified otherwise. Principal Officers may also authorize the removal of USAID markings already affixed if circumstances warrant. Principal Officers' determinations regarding waiver requests are subject to appeal to the Principal Officer's cognizant Assistant Administrator. Recipients may appeal by submitting a written request to reconsider the Principal Officer's waiver determination to the cognizant Assistant Administrator.


(2) *Non-retroactivity.* Marking requirements apply to any obligation of USAID funds for new awards as of January 2, 2006. Marking requirements also will apply to new obligations under existing awards, such as incremental funding actions, as of January 2, 2006, when the total estimated cost of the existing award has been increased by USAID or the scope of effort is changed to accommodate any costs associated with marking. In the event a waiver is rescinded, the marking requirements will apply from the date forward that the waiver is rescinded. In the event a waiver is rescinded after the period of performance but before closeout as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, the USAID mission or operating unit with initial responsibility to administer the marking requirements must make a cost benefit analysis as to requiring USAID marking requirements after the end date of the affected programs, projects, activities, public communications or commodities.


(l) USAID will provide the USAID Identity and other guidance at no cost or fee to recipients of USAID grants, cooperative agreements or other assistance awards or subawards. USAID will fund additional costs associated with marking requirements if reasonable, allowable, and allocable under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E. Recipients must follow the standard cost reimbursement provisions of the grant, cooperative agreement, other assistance award or subaward when applying for reimbursement of additional marking costs.








