# § 381.5   What definitions apply?

(a) Definitions in EDGAR at 34 CFR part 77.


(b) Definitions in 2 CFR part 200 subpart A.


(c) *Other definitions.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Act* means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.


*Advocacy* means pleading an individual's cause or speaking or writing in support of an individual. Advocacy may be formal, as in the case of a lawyer representing an individual in a court of law or in formal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy also may be informal, as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual in negotiations, mediation, or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal), or as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual's cause before private entities or organizations, or government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy may be on behalf of—


(i) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy;


(ii) More than one individual or a group or class of individuals, in which case it is systems (or systemic) advocacy; or


(iii) Oneself, in which case it is self advocacy.


*Eligible individual with a disability* means an individual who—


(i) Needs protection and advocacy services that are beyond the scope of services authorized to be provided by the CAP under section 112 of the Act; and


(ii) Is ineligible for—


(A) Protection and advocacy programs under part C of the DD Act; and


(B) Protection and advocacy programs under the PAIMI.


*Eligible system* means a protection and advocacy system that is established under part C of the DD Act and that meets the requirements of § 381.10.


*Mediation* means the act or process of using an independent third party to act as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator to settle differences or disputes between persons or parties. The third party who acts as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator must not be any entity or individual who is connected in any way with the eligible system or the agency, entity, or individual with whom the individual with a disability has a dispute. Mediation may involve the use of professional mediators or any other independent third party mutually agreed to by the parties to the dispute.


*State* means, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, except for purposes of sections 509(c)(3)(B) and (c)(4) of the Act, in which case State does not mean or include Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


