# § 19.230   Conditions requiring prepayment of taxes.

Under certain conditions, the proprietor must prepay the distilled spirits tax required, using TTB F 5000.24, Excise Tax Return, before removing spirits from the bonded premises. Those conditions are:


(a) When the proprietor has not given TTB a withdrawal bond or a unit bond and the proprietor is not exempt from furnishing such bond under § 19.151(d);


(b) When the proprietor has posted a withdrawal or a unit bond, but has defaulted on any payment of tax under this section, and the tax payment remains in default. The proprietor must continue to prepay the tax until the appropriate TTB officer decides that allowing the proprietor to make deferred tax payments again will not jeopardize the revenue;


(c) When the proprietor receives a notice from the appropriate TTB officer that the tax must be prepaid. Such notice may be issued to the proprietor if—


(1) The proprietor fails to maintain records required by this part to substantiate the correctness of its tax returns; or


(2) The proprietor fails to comply with any other provision of this part; or


(d) When the proprietor's withdrawal bond, or the withdrawal coverage under its unit bond, is for less than the maximum penal sum. This condition does not apply to a proprietor who is exempt from furnishing a bond under § 19.151(d). The proprietor must prepay the tax to the extent that a withdrawal would cause the outstanding tax liability to exceed the limits of coverage under the bond. 

 See also § 19.231 if the bond is for less than the maximum penal sum.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1122, Jan. 4, 2017]




