# § 868.21   Requirements for obtaining service.

(a) *Consent and agreement by applicant.* In submitting a request for inspection service, the applicant and the owner of the commodity consent to the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section.


(b) *Written confirmation.* Verbal requests for inspection service shall be confirmed in writing upon request. Each written request shall be made in English and shall include:


(1) The date filed;


(2) The identification, quantity, and location of the commodity;


(3) The type of service(s) requested;


(4) The name and mailing address of the applicant and, if made by an authorized agent, the agent's name and mailing address; and


(5) Any other relevant information that the official with whom the application is filed may request.


(c) *Names and addresses of interested persons.* When requested, each applicant for inspection service shall show on the application form the name and mailing address of each known interested person.


(d) *Surrender of superseded certificates.* Superseded certificates must be promptly surrendered.


(e) *Accessibility*—(1) *Commodities.* Each commodity lot inspected shall be arranged so the entire lot may be examined or, if necessary, a representative sample, as appropriate, can be obtained. If the entire lot is not accessible for examination or a representative sample cannot be obtained, the inspection shall be restricted to an examination or sampling of the accessible portion and the results certified as stated in § 868.34.


(2) *Origin records.* When an applicant requests origin inspection, the records indicating the origin of the commodity to be inspected shall be made accessible for examination and verification by official personnel.


(f) *Plant examination.* Plant surveys shall be performed upon request. Survey results shall be reported in writing to a designated plant official. If the plant is approved as a result of the survey, inspection service may begin or continue at a time agreed upon by the plant management and the cooperator or Service. If the plant is not approved as a result of the survey, inspection service shall be conditionally withheld pursuant to the procedures in § 868.24.


(g) *Working space.* An applicant must provide adequate and separate space when inspection service is performed at a plant.


(h) *Loading and unloading conditions.* Each applicant for inspection service shall provide or arrange for suitable conditions in the—


(1) Loading and unloading areas and the truck and railroad holding areas;


(2) Pier or dock areas;


(3) Deck and stowage areas of a carrier;


(4) Other service areas; and


(5) Equipment used in loading or unloading, processing, and handling the commodity.


(i) *Timely arrangements.* Requests for inspection service shall be made in a timely manner; otherwise, official personnel may not be available to provide the requested service. “Timely manner” shall mean not later than 2 p.m., local time, of the preceding business day.


(j) *Payment of bills.* Each applicant for inspection service shall pay bills for the service pursuant to §§ 868.90-868.92.



---

[N] [53 FR 3722, Feb. 9, 1988. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 16364, Mar. 30, 1995]




