# § 184.7   Federal agency's issuance of a Buy America Preference waiver.

(a) *Justification of waivers.* A Federal agency may waive the application of the Buy America Preference in any case in which it finds that:


(1) Applying the Buy America Preference would be inconsistent with the public interest (a “public interest waiver”);


(2) Types of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction materials are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of a satisfactory quality (a “nonavailability waiver”); or


(3) The inclusion of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction materials produced in the United States will increase the cost of the overall infrastructure project by more than 25 percent (an “unreasonable cost waiver”).


(b) *Requesting a waiver.* Recipients may request waivers from a Federal agency if the recipient reasonably believes a waiver is justified under paragraph (a) of this section. A request from a recipient to waive the application of the Buy America Preference must be provided to the Federal agency in writing. Federal agencies must provide waiver request submission instructions and guidance on the format, contents, and supporting materials required for waiver requests from recipients.


(c) *Before issuing a proposed waiver.* Before issuing a proposed waiver, the Federal agency must prepare a detailed written explanation for the proposed determination to issue the waiver based on a justification listed under paragraph (a) of this section, including for waivers requested by a recipient.


(d) *Before issuing a final waiver.* Before issuing a final waiver, the Federal agency must:


(1) Make the proposed waiver and the detailed written explanation publicly available in an easily accessible location on a website designated by the Federal agency and the Office of Management and Budget;


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, provide a period of not less than 15 calendar days for public comment on the proposed waiver; and


(3) Unless the Director of OMB provides otherwise, submit the waiver determination to the Made in America Office in OMB for final review pursuant to Executive Order 14005 and section 70923(b) of the Build America, Buy America Act.


(e) *Waivers of general applicability.* Waivers of general applicability mean waivers that apply generally across multiple Federal awards. A Federal agency must provide a period of not less than 30 days for public comment on a proposal to modify or renew a waiver of general applicability.






