# § 65.162   Nonflare control and recovery device monitoring records.

(a) *Monitoring system records.* For process vents and high-throughput transfer racks, the owner or operator subject to this subpart shall keep the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section as well as records specified elsewhere in this part. 


(1) For CPMS used to comply with this part, a record of the procedure used for calibrating the CPMS. 


(2) For CPMS used to comply with this subpart, records of the following information, as applicable: 


(i) The date and time of completion of calibration and preventive maintenance of the CPMS; 


(ii) The “as found” and “as left” CPMS readings whenever an adjustment is made that affects the CPMS reading and a “no adjustment” statement otherwise; 


(iii) The start time and duration or start and stop time of any periods when the CPMS is inoperative or malfunctioning; 


(iv) Records of the occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, and malfunction of CPMS used to comply with this part during which excess emissions (as defined in § 65.3(a)(4)) occur; and 


(v) For each startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which excess emissions as defined in § 65.3(a)(4) of this part occur, records whether the procedures specified in the source's startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan were followed and documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the plan. These records may take the form of a checklist, or other form of recordkeeping that confirms conformance with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan for the event. 


(3) Records of startup, shutdown, and malfunction and CPMS calibration and maintenance are not required if they pertain solely to Group 2A process vents. 


(b) *Combustion control and halogen reduction device monitoring records.* (1) Each owner or operator using a combustion control or halogen reduction device to comply with this subpart shall keep, as applicable, up-to-date and readily accessible continuous records, as specified in § 65.161(a); and records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 65.148(c) (incinerator monitoring); § 65.149(c) (boiler and process heater monitoring); § 65.154(c) (halogen reduction device monitoring); § 65.155(c) (other control device monitoring); or specified by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. 


(2) Each owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 65.161(c)(1). For catalytic incinerators, record the daily average of the temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the daily average of the temperature differential across the bed. For halogen scrubbers, record the daily average pH and the liquid-to-gas ratio. 


(3) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries are exceeded and report these exceedances as specified in § 65.166(f)(1). The parameter boundaries are established pursuant to § 65.148(c)(2) (incinerator monitoring), § 65.149(c)(2) (boiler and process heater monitoring), § 65.154(c)(2) (halogen reduction device monitoring), or § 65.155(c)(2) (other control device monitoring), as applicable. 


(c) *Monitoring records for recovery devices on Group 2A process vents and for absorbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers, or other noncombustion systems used as control devices.* (1) Each owner or operator using a recovery device to achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than 4.0 or using an absorber, condenser, carbon adsorber, or other noncombustion system as a control device shall keep readily accessible, continuous records, as specified in § 65.161(a), of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 65.150(c) (absorber monitoring), § 65.151(c) (condenser monitoring), § 65.152(c) (carbon adsorber monitoring), § 65.153(c) (recovery device monitoring) or § 65.155(c) (other control device monitoring), or specified by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. For transfer racks, continuous records are required while the transfer vent stream is being vented. 


(2) Each owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 65.161(c)(1). If carbon adsorber regeneration stream flow and carbon bed regeneration temperature are monitored, the following records shall be kept instead of the daily averages, and the records shall be reported as specified in § 65.166(f)(2): 


(i) Records of total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each carbon-bed regeneration cycle; and 


(ii) Records of the temperature of the carbon bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle. 


(3) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries are exceeded and report these exceedances as specified in § 65.166(f)(1). The parameter boundaries are established pursuant to § 65.150(c)(2) (absorber monitoring), § 65.151(c)(2) (condenser monitoring), § 65.152(c)(2) (carbon adsorber monitoring), or § 65.155(c)(2) (other control device monitoring), as applicable. 


(d) *Alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions.* An owner or operator may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in §§ 65.148(c), 65.149(c), 65.150(c), 65.151(c), 65.152(c), 65.153(c), 65.154(c), 65.160, and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(1) Requests shall be included in the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority and shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3) through (5) of this section, as applicable. 


(2) The provisions in § 65.7(c) shall govern the review and approval of requests. 


(3) An owner or operator of a source that does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of measuring parameter values at least once every 15 minutes and generating continuous records may request approval to use a nonautomated system with less frequent monitoring. 


(i) The requested system shall include manual reading and recording of the value of the relevant operating parameter no less frequently than once per hour. Daily average values shall be calculated from these hourly values and recorded. 


(ii) The request shall contain the following information: 


(A) A description of the planned monitoring and recordkeeping system; 


(B) Documentation that the source does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of meeting the specified requirements; 


(C) Justification for requesting an alternative monitoring and recordkeeping system; and 


(D) Demonstration to the Administrator's satisfaction that the proposed monitoring frequency is sufficient to represent control device operating conditions considering typical variability of the specific process and control device operating parameter being monitored. 


(4) An owner or operator may request approval to use an automated data compression recording system that does not record monitored operating parameter values at a set frequency (for example, once every 15 minutes) but records all values that meet set criteria for variation from previously recorded values. 


(i) The requested system shall be designed to perform the following functions: 


(A) Measure the operating parameter value at least once every 15 minutes; 


(B) Record at least four values each hour during periods of operation; 


(C) Record the date and time when monitors are turned off or on; 


(D) Recognize unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alert the operator, and record the incident; and 


(E) Compute daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on recorded data. If the daily average is not an excursion as defined in § 65.161(e)(2)(iv), the data for that operating day may be converted to hourly average values, and the four or more individual records for each hour in the operating day may be discarded. 


(ii) The request shall contain a description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system, including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained, the method for calculating averages, and a demonstration that the system meets all criteria in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section. 


(5) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring and recordkeeping systems as specified in § 65.7(b). The application shall contain a description of the proposed alternative system. In addition, the application shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for an alternative monitoring method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the regulated source using the required method. 


(e) *Monitoring a different parameter than those listed.* The owner or operator who has been directed by § 65.154(c)(2) or § 65.155(c)(1) to set monitoring parameters, or who requests as allowed by § 65.156(e) approval to monitor a different parameter than those listed in § 65.148(c), § 65.149(c), § 65.150(c), § 65.151(c), § 65.152(c), § 65.153(c), § 65.154(c), § 65.160, or paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, shall submit the following information with the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority: 


(1) A description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure the process, control technology, or pollution prevention measure is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limit, percent reduction, or nominal efficiency, and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s). 


(2) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation of the control device, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that the owner or operator will establish a range for the monitored parameter as part of the Initial Compliance Status Report required in § 65.5(d) unless this information has already been included in the operating permit application or previously established under a referencing subpart. 


(3) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting if monitoring and recording is not continuous, or if reports of daily average values when the monitored parameter value is outside the range established in the operating permit or Initial Compliance Status Report will not be included in Periodic Reports as specified in § 65.166(e). The rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting system shall be included. 




