# ยง 57.805   Submission of written comments on tentative determination.

(a) *Main comments.* Each person who has filed a request to participate in the hearing shall file with the Hearing Clerk no later than 30 days before the scheduled start of the hearing (or such other date as may be set forth in the notice of hearing) any comments which he has on the request for waiver and EPA's tentative determination, based on information which is or reasonably could have been available to that person at the time.


(b) *Reply comments.* Not later than two weeks after a full transcript of the hearing becomes available (or such other date as may be set forth in the notice of hearing), each person who has filed a request to participate in the hearing shall file with the Hearing Clerk any comments he may have on:


(1) Written comments submitted by other participants pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) Written comments submitted in response to the notice of hearing;


(3) Material in the hearing record; and


(4) Material which was not and could not reasonably have been available prior to the deadline for submission of main comments under paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Form of comments.* All comments should be submitted in quadruplicate and shall include any affidavits, studies, tests or other materials relied upon for making any factual statements in the comments.


(d) *Use of comments.* (1) Written comments filed under this section shall constitute the bulk of the evidence submitted at the hearing. Oral statements at the hearing should be brief, and restricted either to points that could not have been made in written comments, or to emphasizing points which are made in the comments, but which the participant believes can be more forcefully urged in the hearing context.


(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing, within two weeks prior to either deadline specified by paragraph (a) of this section for the filing of main comments, any person who has filed a request to participate in the hearing may file a request with the Presiding Officer to submit all or part of his main comments orally at the hearing in lieu of submitting written comments. The Presiding Officer shall, within one week, grant such request if he finds that such person will be prejudiced if he is required to submit such comments in written form.




