# § 200.413   Direct costs.

(a) *General.* Direct costs are those costs that can be identified specifically with a particular final cost objective, such as a Federal award, or other internally or externally funded activity, or that can be directly assigned to such activities relatively easily with a high degree of accuracy. Costs incurred for the same purpose in like circumstances must be treated consistently as direct or indirect costs. See § 200.405.


(b) *Application to Federal awards.* The association of costs with a Federal award determines whether costs are direct or indirect. Costs charged directly to a Federal award are typically incurred specifically for that Federal award (including, for example, supplies needed to achieve the award's objectives and the proportion of employee compensation and fringe benefits expended in relation to that specific award). Costs that otherwise would be treated as indirect costs may also be considered direct costs if they are directly related to a specific award (including, for example, extraordinary utility consumption, the cost of materials supplied from stock or services rendered by specialized facilities, cybersecurity, integrated data systems, asset management systems, performance management costs, program evaluation costs, or other institutional service operations).


(c) *Administrative and clerical staff salaries.* Administrative and clerical staff salaries should normally be treated as indirect costs. Direct charging of these costs may be appropriate only if they meet all of the following conditions:


(1) The administrative or clerical services are integral to a Federal award;


(2) Individuals involved can be specifically identified with a Federal award; and


(3) The costs are not also recovered as indirect costs.


(d) *Minor items.* A direct cost of a minor amount may be treated as an indirect cost, for reasons of practicality, provided that it is treated consistently for all Federal and non-Federal purposes.


(e) *Treatment of unallowable costs in determining indirect cost rates.* The costs of certain activities are not allowable as charges to Federal awards. Even though these costs are unallowable, they must be treated as direct costs for purposes of determining indirect cost rates and be allocated their equitable share of the recipient's or subrecipient's indirect costs if they represent activities which:


(1) Include the salaries of personnel;


(2) Occupy space; and


(3) Benefit from the recipient's or subrecipient's indirect costs.


(f) *Treatment of certain costs for nonprofit organizations.* For nonprofit organizations, the costs of activities performed by the nonprofit organization primarily as a service to members, clients, or the general public when significant and necessary to the organization's mission must be treated as direct costs whether or not allowable, and be allocated an equitable share of indirect costs. Some examples of these types of activities include:


(1) Maintenance of membership rolls, subscriptions, publications, and related functions. See § 200.454.


(2) Providing services and information to members, the government, or the public. See §§ 200.454 and 200.450.


(3) Promotion, lobbying, and other forms of public relations. See §§ 200.421 and 200.450.


(4) Conferences (except those held to conduct the general administration of the recipient or subrecipient). See also § 200.432.


(5) Maintenance, protection, and investment of special funds not used in the recipient's or subrecipient's operation. See also § 200.442.


(6) Administration of group benefits on behalf of members or clients, including life and hospital insurance, annuity or retirement plans, and financial aid. See also § 200.431.




