# ยง 74.451   Certification of equipment.

(a) Applications for new remote pickup broadcast stations or systems or for changing transmitting equipment of an existing station will not be accepted unless the transmitters to be used have been certificated by the FCC pursuant to the provisions of this subpart, or have been certificated for licensing under part 90 of this chapter and do not exceed the output power limits specified in ยง 74.461(b).


(b) Any manufacturer of a transmitter to be used in this service may apply for certification for such transmitter following the certification procedure set forth in part 2 of the Commission's rules and regulations. Attention is also directed to part 1 of the Commission's rules and regulations which specifies the fees required when filing an application for certification.


(c) An applicant for a remote pickup broadcast station or system may also apply for certification for an individual transmitter by following the certification procedure set forth in part 2 of the Commission's rules and regulations.


(d) All transmitters marketed for use under this subpart shall be certificated by the Federal Communications Commission. (Refer to subpart J of part 2 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations.)


(e) Remote pickup broadcast station equipment authorized to be used pursuant to an application accepted for filing prior to December 1, 1977, may continue to be used by the licensee or its successors or assignees: *Provided, however,* If operation of such equipment causes harmful interference due to its failure to comply with the technical standards set forth in this subpart, the Commission may, at its discretion, require the licensee to take such corrective action as is necessary to eliminate the interference.


(f) Each instrument of authority which permits operation of a remote pickup broadcast station or system using equipment which has not been certificated will specify the particular transmitting equipment which the licensee is authorized to use.



---

[N] [41 FR 29686, July 19, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 14728, Mar. 16, 1977; 42 FR 43636, Aug. 30, 1977; 43 FR 14661, Apr. 7, 1978; 45 FR 28142, Apr. 28, 1980; 63 FR 36604, July 7, 1998; 68 FR 12765, Mar. 17, 2003]




