# § 876.5250   Urine collector and accessories.

(a) *Identification.* A urine collector and accessories is a device intended to collect urine. The device and accessories consist of tubing, a suitable receptacle, connectors, mechanical supports, and may include a means to prevent the backflow of urine or ascent of infection. The two kinds of urine collectors are: 


(1) A urine collector and accessories intended to be connected to an indwelling catheter, which includes the urinary drainage collection kit and the closed urine drainage system and drainage bag; and 


(2) A urine collector and accessories not intended to be connected to an indwelling catheter, which includes the corrugated rubber sheath, pediatric urine collector, leg bag for external use, urosheath type incontinence device, and the paste-on device for incontinence.


(b) *Classification*—(1) *Class II (special controls) for a urine collector and accessories intended to be connected to an indwelling catheter.* The device is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to § 876.9.


(2) *Class I (general controls).* For a urine collector and accessories not intended to be connected to an indwelling catheter, the device is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to the limitations in § 876.9. If the device is not labeled or otherwise represented as sterile, it is exempt from the current good manufacturing practice requirements of the quality system regulation in part 820 of this chapter, with the exception of § 820.180, with respect to general requirements concerning records, and § 820.198, with respect to complaint files.



---

[N] [48 FR 53023, Nov. 23, 1983, as amended at 63 FR 59228, Nov. 3, 1998; 65 FR 2317, Jan. 14, 2000; 66 FR 38802, July 25, 2001; 73 FR 34860, June 19, 2008]




