# § 400.677   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Act* means the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524).


*Applicant* means a person who has submitted an application for crop insurance coverage under the Act.


*Authorized person* means any current or past officer, employee, elected official, managing general agent, agent, or contractor of an insurance provider, FCIC, or any other government agency whose duties require access to the ITS to administer the Act.


*Controlled substance* has the same meaning provided in 7 CFR 3021.610.


*Conviction* means a judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of no contest.


*Date of delinquency* means: The termination date specified in the applicable policy for administrative fees and premiums owed for insurance issued under the authority of the Act, and any interest and penalties on those amounts, if applicable; and the due date specified in the notice to the person of the amount due for any other amounts due the insurance provider or FCIC for insurance issued under the authority of the Act. Other amounts due include, but are not limited to, indemnities, prevented planting payments, or replant payments found not to have been earned or that were overpaid, premium billed with a due date after the termination date for the crop year in which premium is earned, and any interest, administrative fees, and penalties on such amounts, if applicable. Payments postmarked or received before the date of delinquency by the insurance provider or its agent for debts owed to the insurance provider, or by FCIC for debts owed to FCIC, are not delinquent.


*Debt* means an amount of money that has been determined to be owed by any person to FCIC or an insurance provider, excluding money owed to an insurance provider's agent, under any program administered under the Act. The debt may have arisen from nonpayment of interest, penalties, premium, or administrative fee; overpayment of indemnity, prevented planting or replant payment; cost of collection; or other causes. A debt does not include debts discharged in bankruptcy.


*Debtor* means a person who owes a debt and that debt is delinquent.


*Delinquent debt* means a debt that is not satisfied on or before the date of delinquency. To avoid delinquency or ineligibility due to a delinquent debt, a debtor may enter into a written payment agreement acceptable to the insurance provider or FCIC to pay any such debt as long as all payments are made by the due dates specified in such written payment agreement. A delinquent debt does not include debts discharged in bankruptcy or any debt to an insurance provider's agent.


*Employer Identification Number (EIN)* means a Tax Identification Number issued by the Internal Revenue Service used to identify a business entity, and may also be referred to as a Federal Tax Identification Number.


*Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)* means a list maintained by the General Services Administration that provides a source of current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions, including the date the person was determined ineligible and the date the period of ineligibility ends.


*Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC)* means a wholly owned government corporation within the USDA.


*Ineligible person* means a person who is denied participation in any program administered under the authority of the Act.


*Ineligible Tracking System (ITS)* means an electronic system to identify persons who are ineligible to participate in any program pursuant to this subpart.


*Insurance Provider* means a legal entity which has entered into a Standard Reinsurance Agreement, Livestock Price Reinsurance Agreement, or other reinsurance agreement, as applicable, with FCIC for the applicable reinsurance year.


*Livestock Price Reinsurance Agreement* means a cooperative financial assistance agreement between FCIC and an insurance provider to deliver eligible livestock price insurance contracts under the authority of the Act and establishes the terms and conditions under which FCIC will provide subsidy and reinsurance on eligible livestock price insurance policies sold.


*Meaningful opportunity to contest* means the opportunity for the insured to resolve disagreements with a decision by the insurance provider through requesting a review of the decision by the insurance provider, mediation, arbitration, or judicial review, as applicable.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or other legal entity, and wherever applicable, a State or political subdivision or agency of a State. “Person” does not include the United States Government or any agency thereof.


*Qualified alien* has the same meaning provided in the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1641).


*Reinstatement* means that the policy will retain the same plan of insurance, coverage levels, price percentages, endorsements and options the person had prior to termination, provided the person continues to meet all eligibility requirements, comply with the terms of the policy, and there is no evidence of misrepresentation or fraud.


*Social Security Number (SSN)* means an individual's Social Security Number as issued under the authority of the Social Security Act.


*Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA)* means a cooperative financial assistance agreement between FCIC and an insurance provider to deliver eligible crop insurance contracts under the authority of the Act and establishes the terms and conditions under which FCIC will provide subsidy and reinsurance on eligible crop insurance policies sold.


*Substantial beneficial interest* has the same meaning as contained in the applicable policy.


*USDA* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


*United States non-citizen national* has the same meaning provided in the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. § 1408).


*Written payment agreement* means a written document between a debtor and the insurance provider, or FCIC, that is signed and dated by all applicable parties to satisfy financial obligations of the debtor with scheduled installment payments under conditions that modify the terms of the original debt in accordance with § 400.681.



---

[N] [79 FR 2079, Jan. 13, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 42472, June 30, 2016]




