# § 721.2280   Cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde (PMN P-96-33) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). Each person who is reasonsonably likely to be exposed by inhalation to the PMN substance in vapor form during loading of rail cars is provided with, and is required to wear, at a minimum, a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) approved category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a full facepiece with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 200. As an alternative to the respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the new chemical exposure limits provisions, including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been approved by EPA for this substance, found in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]




