# ยง 431.954   Basis and scope.

(a) *Basis.* The statutory bases for this subpart are as follows:


(1) Sections 1102, 1902(a)(6), and 2107(b)(1) of the Act, which contain the Secretary's general rulemaking authority and obligate States to provide information, as the Secretary may require, to monitor program performance.


(2) The Payment Integrity Information Act (PIIA) of 2019 (Pub. L. 116-117), which requires Federal agencies to review and identify annually those programs and activities that may be susceptible to significant erroneous payments, estimate the amount of improper payments, report such estimates to the Congress, and submit a report on actions the agency is taking to reduce erroneous payments.


(3) Section 1902(a)(27)(B) of the Act requires States to require providers to agree to furnish the State Medicaid agencies and the Secretary with information regarding payments claimed by Medicaid providers for furnishing Medicaid services.


(4) Section 601 of the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (CHIPRA) (Pub. L. 111-3) which requires that the new PERM regulations include the following: Clearly defined criteria for errors for both States and providers; Clearly defined processes for appealing error determinations; clearly defined responsibilities and deadlines for States in implementing any corrective action plans; requirements for State verification of an applicant's self-declaration or self-certification of eligibility for, and correct amount of, medical assistance under Medicaid or child health assistance under CHIP; and State-specific sample sizes for application of the PERM requirements.


(b) *Scope.* (1) This subpart requires States under the statutory provisions cited in paragraph (a) of this section to submit information as set forth in ยง 431.970 for, among other purposes, estimating improper payments in the fee-for-service (FFS) and managed care components of the Medicaid and CHIP programs and to determine whether eligibility was correctly determined. This subpart also requires providers to submit to the Secretary any medical records and other information necessary to disclose the extent of services provided to individuals receiving assistance, and to furnish information regarding any payments claimed by the provider for furnishing such services, as requested by the Secretary.


(2) All information must be furnished in accordance with section 1902(a)(7)(A) of the Act, regarding confidentiality.


(3) This subpart does not apply with respect to Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands or American Samoa. 



---

[N] [71 FR 51081, Aug. 28, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 48847, Aug. 11, 2010; 89 FR 69913, Aug. 28, 2024]




