# § 1540.111   Carriage of weapons, explosives, and incendiaries by individuals.

(a) *On an individual's person or accessible property—prohibitions.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual may not have a weapon, explosive, or incendiary, on or about the individual's person or accessible property—


(1) When performance has begun of the inspection of the individual's person or accessible property before entering a sterile area, or before boarding an aircraft for which screening is conducted under this subchapter;


(2) When the individual is entering or in a sterile area; or


(3) When the individual is attempting to board or onboard an aircraft for which screening is conducted under §§ 1544.201, 1546.201, or 1562.23 of this chapter.


(b) *On an individual's person or accessible property—permitted carriage of a weapon.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply as to carriage of firearms and other weapons if the individual is one of the following:


(1) Law enforcement personnel required to carry a firearm or other weapons while in the performance of law enforcement duty at the airport.


(2) An individual authorized to carry a weapon in accordance with §§ 1544.219, 1544.221, 1544.223, 1546.211, or subpart B of part 1562 of this chapter.


(3) An individual authorized to carry a weapon in a sterile area under a security program.


(c) *In checked baggage.* A passenger may not transport or offer for transport in checked baggage or in baggage carried in an inaccessible cargo hold under § 1562.23 of this chapter:


(1) Any loaded firearm(s).


(2) Any unloaded firearm(s) unless—


(i) The passenger declares to the aircraft operator, either orally or in writing, before checking the baggage, that the passenger has a firearm in his or her bag and that it is unloaded;


(ii) The firearm is unloaded;


(iii) The firearm is carried in a hard-sided container; and


(iv) The container in which it is carried is locked, and only the passenger retains the key or combination.


(3) Any unauthorized explosive or incendiary.


(d) *Ammunition.* This section does not prohibit the carriage of ammunition in checked baggage or in the same container as a firearm. Title 49 CFR part 175 provides additional requirements governing carriage of ammunition on aircraft.



---

[N] [67 FR 8353, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 41639, June 19, 2002; 70 FR 41600, July 19, 2005; 71 FR 30507, May 26, 2006]




