# ยง 516.17   SJA or legal adviser procedures.

(a) *Immediate notice to HQDA.* When an SJA or legal adviser learns of litigation in which the United States has an interest, and it appears that HQDA is not aware of the action, the SJA or legal adviser will telephonically notify the responsible HQDA office. (See ยง 516.15(c)). Immediate notice is particularly important when litigation involves one of the following: a lawsuit against an employee in his individual capacity; a motion for a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction; a habeas corpus proceeding; a judicial or administrative proceeding involving less than 60 days to file an answer; and, actions with possible Congressional, Secretarial, or Army Staff interest. For legal proceedings instituted in foreign tribunals, the SJA or legal adviser will also notify the major overseas commander concerned and the appropriate U.S. Embassy or Legation. A telephonic report to HQDA should include the following:


(1) Title or style of the proceeding.


(2) Full names and addresses of the parties.


(3) Tribunal in which the action is filed, date filed, docket number, when and on whom service of process was made, and date by which pleading or response is required.


(4) Nature of the action, amount claimed or relief sought.


(5) Reasons for immediate action.


(b) *Transmission of process, pleadings, and related papers.* Unless instructed otherwise by HQDA, the SJA or legal adviser will FAX or mail HQDA a copy of all process, pleadings, and related papers. Use of express mail or overnight delivery service is authorized.


(c) *Notice to U.S. Attorney.* If the legal proceeding is instituted in the United States, the SJA or legal adviser, unless instructed otherwise by HQDA, will notify the appropriate U.S. Attorney and render assistance as required.




