# § 200.30-10   Delegation of authority to Chief Administrative Law Judge.

Pursuant to sections 4A and 4B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78d-1), the Securities and Exchange Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Chief Administrative Law Judge or to such administrative law judge or administrative law judges as may be designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge in the Chief Administrative Law Judge's absence, or as otherwise designated by the Chairman of the Commission in the absence of the Chief Administrative Law Judge:


(a) With respect to proceedings conducted before an administrative law judge, pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.,* the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78a *et seq.,* the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, 15 U.S.C. 77aaa *et seq.,* the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1 *et seq.,* the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80b-1 *et seq.,* the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 78aaa *et seq.,* and the provisions of Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.102(e) of this chapter:


(1) After a proceeding has been authorized, to fix the time and place for hearing pursuant to Rule 200 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.200 of this chapter;


(2) To designate administrative law judges pursuant to Rule 110 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.110 of this chapter;


(3) To postpone or adjourn hearings or otherwise adjust the date for commencement of hearings pursuant to Rule 161 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.161 of this chapter, or to advance or cancel such hearings, if necessary;


(4) To grant extensions of time within which to file papers pursuant to Rule 161 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.161 of this chapter;


(5) To permit the filing of briefs exceeding 14,000 words in length, pursuant to Rule 450(c) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.450(c) of this chapter;


(6) In the event the designated presiding administrative law judge is unavailable to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and subpoenas requiring the production of documentary or other tangible evidence at any designated place of hearing upon request therefor by any party, pursuant to § 201.232 of this chapter (Rule 232 of the Commission's Rules of Practice);


(7) Pursuant to sections 15(b)(1)(B), 15B(a)(2)(B), and 19(a)(1)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and section 203(c)(2)(B) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to grant extensions of time for conclusion of proceedings instituted to determine whether applications for registration as a broker or dealer, municipal securities dealer, national securities exchange, registered securities association, or registered clearing agency, or as an investment adviser should be denied; 


(8) To grant motions of staff counsel to discontinue administrative proceedings as to a particular respondent who has died or cannot be found, or because of a mistake in the identity of a respondent named in the order for proceedings.


(b) With respect to proceedings under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504, to make assignments as provided in § 201.37(b) of this chapter, respecting applications made pursuant to that Act.


(c) Notwithstanding anything in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section , in any case in which the Chief Administrative Law Judge believes it appropriate the Chief Administrative Law Judge may submit the matter to the Commission.



---

[N] [37 FR 23827, Nov. 9, 1972, as amended at 41 FR 21183, May 24, 1976; 43 FR 13378, Mar. 30, 1978; 54 FR 53051, Dec. 27, 1989; 60 FR 32794, June 23, 1995; 69 FR 13174, Apr. 19, 2004; 70 FR 72569, Dec. 5, 2005; 71 FR 71037, Dec. 8, 2006; 86 FR 9447, Feb. 16, 2021]




