# § 416.902   Definitions for this subpart.

As used in the subpart—


(a) *Acceptable medical source* means a medical source who is a:


(1) Licensed physician (medical or osteopathic doctor);


(2) Licensed psychologist, which includes:


(i) A licensed or certified psychologist at the independent practice level; or


(ii) A licensed or certified school psychologist, or other licensed or certified individual with another title who performs the same function as a school psychologist in a school setting, for impairments of intellectual disability, learning disabilities, and borderline intellectual functioning only;


(3) Licensed optometrist for impairments of visual disorders, or measurement of visual acuity and visual fields only, depending on the scope of practice in the State in which the optometrist practices;


(4) Licensed podiatrist for impairments of the foot, or foot and ankle only, depending on whether the State in which the podiatrist practices permits the practice of podiatry on the foot only, or the foot and ankle;


(5) Qualified speech-language pathologist for speech or language impairments only. For this source, *qualified* means that the speech-language pathologist must be licensed by the State professional licensing agency, or be fully certified by the State education agency in the State in which he or she practices, or hold a Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association;


(6) Licensed audiologist for impairments of hearing loss, auditory processing disorders, and balance disorders within the licensed scope of practice only (with respect to claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017);


(7) Licensed Advanced Practice Registered Nurse, or other licensed advanced practice nurse with another title, for impairments within his or her licensed scope of practice (only with respect to claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017); or


(8) Licensed Physician Assistant for impairments within his or her licensed scope of practice (only with respect to claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017).


(b) *Adult* means a person who is age 18 or older.


(c) *Child* means a person who has not attained age 18.


(d) *Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Social Security or his or her authorized designee.


(e) *Disability redetermination* means a redetermination of your eligibility based on disability using the rules for new applicants appropriate to your age, except the rules pertaining to performance of substantial gainful activity. For individuals who are working and for whom a disability redetermination is required, we will apply the rules in §§ 416.260 through 416.269. In conducting a disability redetermination, we will not use the rules for determining whether disability continues set forth in § 416.994 or § 416.994a. (See § 416.987.)


(f) *Impairment(s)* means a medically determinable physical or mental impairment or a combination of medically determinable physical or mental impairments.


(g) *Laboratory findings* means one or more anatomical, physiological, or psychological phenomena that can be shown by the use of medically acceptable laboratory diagnostic techniques. Diagnostic techniques include chemical tests (such as blood tests), electrophysiological studies (such as electrocardiograms and electroencephalograms), medical imaging (such as X-rays), and psychological tests.


(h) *Marked and severe functional limitations,* when used as a phrase, means the standard of disability in the Social Security Act for children claiming SSI benefits based on disability. It is a level of severity that meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings. (See §§ 416.906, 416.924, and 416.926a.) The words “marked” and “severe” are also separate terms used throughout this subpart to describe measures of functional limitations; the term “marked” is also used in the listings. (See §§ 416.924 and 416.926a.) The meaning of the words “marked” and “severe” when used as part of the phrase marked and severe functional limitations is not the same as the meaning of the separate terms “marked” and “severe” used elsewhere in 404 and 416. (See §§ 416.924(c) and 416.926a(e).)


(i) *Medical source* means an individual who is licensed as a healthcare worker by a State and working within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law, or an individual who is certified by a State as a speech-language pathologist or a school psychologist and acting within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law.


(j) *Nonmedical source* means a source of evidence who is not a medical source. This includes, but is not limited to:


(1) You;


(2) Educational personnel (for example, school teachers, counselors, early intervention team members, developmental center workers, and daycare center workers);


(3) Public and private social welfare agency personnel; and


(4) Family members, caregivers, friends, neighbors, employers, and clergy.


(k) *Objective medical evidence* means signs, laboratory findings, or both.


(l) *Signs* means one or more anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities that can be observed, apart from your statements (symptoms). Signs must be shown by medically acceptable clinical diagnostic techniques. Psychiatric signs are medically demonstrable phenomena that indicate specific psychological abnormalities, e.g., abnormalities of behavior, mood, thought, memory, orientation, development, or perception and must also be shown by observable facts that can be medically described and evaluated.


(m) *State agency* means an agency of a State designated by that State to carry out the disability or blindness determination function.


(n) *Symptoms* means your own description of your physical or mental impairment.


(o) *The listings* means the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter. When we refer to an impairment(s) that “meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings,” we mean that the impairment(s) meets or medically equals the severity of any listing in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, as explained in §§ 416.925 and 416.926, or that it functionally equals the severity of the listings, as explained in § 416.926a.


(p) *We* or *us* means, as appropriate, either the Social Security Administration or the State agency making the disability or blindness determination.


(q) *You, your,**me, my* and *I* mean, as appropriate, the person who applies for benefits, the person for whom an application is filed, or the person who is receiving benefits based on disability or blindness.



---

[N] [82 FR 5873, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 51836, Oct. 15, 2018]




