# § 62.35-5   Remote propulsion-control systems.

(a) *Manual propulsion control.* All vessels having remote propulsion control from the navigating bridge, an ECC or maneuvering platform, or elsewhere must have a manual alternate propulsion control located at the equipment.


(b) *Centralized propulsion control equipment.* Navigating bridge, ECC, maneuvering platform, and manual alternate control locations must include—


(1) Control of the speed and direction of thrust for each independent propeller controlled;


(2) A guarded manually actuated safety trip control (which stops the propelling machinery) for each independent propeller controlled;


(3) Shaft speed and thrust direction indicators for each independent propeller controlled;


(4) The means to pass propulsion orders required by §§ 113.30-5 and 113.35-3 of this chapter; and


(5) The means required by paragraph (d) of this section to achieve control location transfer and independence.


(c) *Main navigating bridge propulsion control.* (1) Navigating bridge remote propulsion control must be performed by a single control device for each independent propeller. Control must include automatic performance of all associated services, and must not permit rate of movement of the control device to overload the propulsion machinery.


(2) On vessels propelled by steam turbines, the navigation bridge primary control system must include safety alarms for high and low boiler water levels and low steam pressure.


(3) On vessels propelled by internal combustion engines, an alarm must annunciate on the navigating bridge and at the maneuvering platform or ECC, if provided, to indicate starting capability less than 50% of that required by § 62.35-35.


(d) *Transfer of control location.* Transfer of control location must meet section 4-9-2/13.11 of the ABS Marine Vessel Rules (incorporated by reference; see § 62.05-1). Manual alternative-propulsion-control locations must be capable of overriding, and of operating independent of, all remote and automatic propulsion-control locations.


(e) *Control system details.* (1) Each operator control device must have a detent at the zero-thrust position.


(2) Propulsion machinery automatic safety trip control operation must only occur when continued operation could result in serious damage, complete breakdown, or explosion of the equipment. Other than the overrides mentioned in § 62.25-10(a)(4) and temporary overrides located at the main navigating bridge control location, overrides of these safety trip controls are prohibited. Operation of permitted overrides must be alarmed at the navigating bridge and at the maneuvering platform or ECC, as applicable, and must be guarded against inadvertent operation.


(3) Remote propulsion control systems must be failsafe by maintaining the preset (as is) speed and direction of thrust until local manual or alternate manual control is in operation, or the manual safety trip control operates. Failure must activate alarms on the navigating bridge and in the machinery spaces.



---

[N] [CGD 81-030, 53 FR 17838, May 18, 1988; 53 FR 19090, May 26, 1988, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65189, Oct. 31, 2008; USCG-2011-0618, 76 FR 60754, Sept. 30, 2011]




