# § 310.3   What terms have specific definitions?

For purposes of this part except when otherwise specified:


(a) *Application* means Form 9310-1, shown in appendix III of this part, including all documentation and additional information you submit to support a request for reimbursement.


(b) *Date of completion* means the date when you have completed all field work and you have received all deliverables (such as lab results, technical expert reports, or invoices) due under a contract or other agreement.


(c) *Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986* means Title III—Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (EPCRA) (Pub. L. 99-499, 42 U.S.C. 11000-11050).


(d) *Federally-recognized Indian Tribe,* as defined by section 101(36) of CERCLA, means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village but not including any Alaska Native regional or village corporation, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


(e) *General purpose unit of local government* means the governing body of a county, parish, municipality, city, town, township, Federally-recognized Indian tribe or similar governing body. This term does not include special purpose districts.


(f) *Hazardous substance.* (1) *Hazardous substance,* as defined by section 101(14) of CERCLA, means:


(i) Any substance designated pursuant to section 311(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. L. 101-380, 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*);


(ii) Any element, compound, mixture, solution, or substance designated pursuant to section 102 of CERCLA;


(iii) Any hazardous waste having the characteristics identified under or listed pursuant to section 3001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (Pub. L. 89-272, 42 U.S.C. 3259 *et seq.*) (but not including any waste the regulation of which under the Solid Waste Disposal Act has been suspended by Act of Congress);


(iv) Any toxic pollutant listed under section 307(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. L. 101-380, 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*);


(v) Any hazardous air pollutant listed under section 112 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7642); and


(vi) Any imminently hazardous chemical substance or mixture with respect to which the Administrator has taken action pursuant to section 7 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (Pub. L. 94-469, 15 U.S.C. 2601-2629).


(2) The term does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof that is not otherwise specifically listed or designated as a hazardous substance under paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(vi) of this section, and the term does not include natural gas, natural gas liquids, liquefied natural gas, or synthetic gas usable for fuel (or mixtures of natural gas and such synthetic gas).


(g) *Local emergency response plan* means the emergency plan prepared by the Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC) as required by section 303 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA or SARA Title III).


(h) *National Contingency Plan* means the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (40 CFR part 300).


(i) *National Response Center* means the national communications center located in Washington, DC, that receives and relays notice of oil discharge or releases of hazardous substances to appropriate Federal officials.


(j) *Pollutant or contaminant,* as defined by section 104(a)(2) of CERCLA, includes, but is not limited to, any element, substance, compound, or mixture, including disease-causing agents, which after release into the environment and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, will or may reasonably be anticipated to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutation, physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions in reproduction) or physical deformations, in such organisms or their offspring. The term does not include petroleum, including crude oil and any fraction thereof that is not otherwise specifically listed or designated as a hazardous substance under section 101(14)(A) through (F) of CERCLA, nor does it include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, or synthetic gas of pipeline quality (or mixtures of natural gas and such synthetic gas).


(k) *Potentially responsible party* (PRP) means any person who may be liable under section 107 of CERCLA for a release or threatened release of hazardous substances or pollutants or contaminants.


(l) *Release,* as defined by section 101(22) of CERCLA, means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injection, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment, but excludes: any release that results in exposure to persons solely within a workplace, with respect to a claim that such persons may assert against the employer of such persons; emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling stock, aircraft, vessel, or pipeline pumping station engine; release of source, by-product or special nuclear materials from a nuclear incident, as those terms are defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 *et seq.*), if such release is subject to requirements with respect to financial protection established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 170 of such act, or, for the purpose of section 104 of CERCLA or any other response action, any release of source, by-product, or special nuclear material from any processing site designated under section 122(a)(1) or 302(a) of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-604, 42 U.S.C. 2014 *et seq.*); and the normal application of fertilizer. For purposes of this part, release also means the threat of release.


(m) *Single response* means all of the concerted activities conducted in response to a single episode, incident, or threat causing or contributing to a release or threatened release of hazardous substances, or pollutants or contaminants.




