# ยง 234.3   Definitions.

The terms *Act, Beginning of amortization, Commissioner, FHA, Insured Mortgage, Mortgage, Mortgagee, Mortgagor,* and *State,* as used in this part, are defined in ยง 203.251 of this chapter. The following terms, as used in this part, are defined as follows: 


*Bona fide tenants' organization* means an association of tenants formed by the tenants to promote their interests in a particular project, with membership in the association open to each tenant, and all requirements of the association applying equally to every tenant. 


*Common areas and facilities* means those areas of the project and of the property upon which it is located that are for the use and enjoyment of the owners of family units located in the project. The areas may include the land, roofs, main walls, elevators, staircases, lobbies, halls, parking space and community and commercial facilities. 


*Conversion* means the date on which all documents necessary to create a condominium under state law (and under local law, where applicable) have been recorded, except that in the case of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, *conversion* is defined as the date on which the legal documents (which must be in compliance with applicable law) to create a condominium are presented for inscription (*i.e.,* recordation) to the Commonwealth Office of the Property Registry.


*Family unit* means a one-family unit including the undivided interest in the common areas and facilities, and such restricted common areas and facilities as may be designated. 


*Project* means a structure or structures containing four or more family units. 


*Project mortgage* means a mortgage which is or has been insured under any of the FHA multifamily housing programs, other than sections 213(a)(1) and 213(a)(2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715e). 


*Restricted common areas and facilities* means those areas and facilities restricted to a particular family unit or number of family units. 


*Tenant* means the occupant(s) named in the lease or rental agreement of a housing unit in a project as of the date the condominium conversion documents are properly filed for the project, or as of the date on which the occupants are notified by management of intent to convert the project to a condominium, whichever is earlier. 



---

[N] [61 FR 60161, Nov. 26, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 6597, Feb. 7, 2003]




