# § 100.1402   Special Local Regulation; Kailua Bay, Ironman World Championship, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Buffer area* is a neutral 100-yard area that surrounds the perimeter of the course area's navigable waters as described by this section. The purpose of a buffer area is to minimize potential collision conflicts with marine event participants and spectator vessels or nearby transiting vessels. This area provides separation between a course area and spectator viewing areas.


*Captain of the Port (COTP) Honolulu* means the Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Sector Honolulu or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the COTP to act on his behalf.


*Coast Guard Patrol Commander (PATCOM)* means a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard who has been designated as PATCOM by the Commander, Coast Guard Sector Honolulu.


*Course area* is an area described by a line bound by coordinates provided in latitude and longitude that outlines the boundary of the event swim area within the overall regulated area defined by this section.


*Enforcement vessels* are designated vessels authorized by the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or COTP Honolulu's designated representatives to support the safety and security of the marine event.


*Official Patrol* means any vessel assigned or approved by Commander, Coast Guard Sector Honolulu with a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer on board.


*Participant* means any persons registered with the event sponsor as participating in the Ironman Triathlon or practice swim.


*Regulated area* is the combined course area and buffer area.


*Spectators* are all persons and vessels not registered with the sponsor as participants, support vessels, or enforcement vessels.


(b) *Location.* All coordinates reference Datum NAD 1983.


(1) *Regulated area.* All navigable waters within Kailua Bay and encompasses the course area and surrounding 100-yard buffer area. This course area and 100-yard buffer area extends from the surface of the water to the ocean floor.


(2) *Course area.* The 2.24 mile (4,224 yards) swim course is a temporary marked swim course within the regulated area located in Kailua Bay.


(3) *Buffer area.* All navigable waters 100 yards outside of the perimeter of the course area, described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(c) *Special local regulations.* (1) The COTP Honolulu or PATCOM may forbid and control the movement of all vessels and persons, including event participants, in the regulated area. When hailed or signaled by an official patrol, a vessel or person in the regulated area shall immediately comply with the directions given by the patrol. Failure to do so may result in the Coast Guard expelling the person or vessel from the area, issuing a citation for failure to comply, or both. The COTP Honolulu or PATCOM may terminate the event at any time the COTP Honolulu or PATCOM believes it necessary to do so for the protection of life.


(2) Except for participants and safety support vessels, a person or vessel within the regulated area at the start of enforcement of this section must immediately depart the regulated area.


(3) Support and enforcement vessels consist of any local law enforcement and sponsor provided vessels assigned or approved by the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or COTP Honolulu designated representatives, to patrol the regulated area.


(4) The regulated area consists of all navigable waters starting at the shoreline northeast of Kailua Pier at 19°38.341′ N, 155°59.782′ W; thence southeast to 19°37.416′ N, 155°59.444′ W; thence southwest to 19°37.397′ N, 155°59.500′ W; thence northwest to 19°38.150′ N, 155°59.760′ W, thence north and back to Kailua Pier at 19°38.398′ N, 155°59.816′ W, and returning along the pier to the originating point on the shoreline at to 19°38.341′ N, 155°59.782′ W.


(5) Spectators shall not enter into, anchor, block, loiter, or impede the transit of participants or support/enforcement vessels in the regulated area during the enforcement of this section, unless cleared for entry by the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or the COTP's designated representatives.


(6) Persons desiring to transit the regulated area identified may contact the COTP Honolulu in advance at the Sector Honolulu Command Center telephone number (808) 842-2600 and (808) 842-2601 or immediately prior to or during the event to the COTP Honolulu's PATCOM or designated representative on VHF-FM marine channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to seek permission to transit or remain in the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or the COTP's designated representative and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while in the area.


(7) If enforcement of the regulated area is no longer necessary, the COTP Honolulu, event Patrol Commander, or COTP designated representative will inform the public through radio broadcasts that the regulated area is no longer being enforced.


(d) *Enforcement officials.* The Coast Guard may be assisted with event patrol and enforcement of the regulated area by other Federal, State, and local agencies.


(e) *Enforcement period.* The marine event and special local regulation in this section will be enforced from 3:45 a.m. to 11 a.m. on the first two weekends in October annually. The Coast Guard will publish a notice in the Fourteenth Coast Guard District Local Notice to Mariners, a Notice of the Enforcement in the _Federal Register,_ and issue a marine information broadcast on VHF-FM marine band radio on channel 16 announcing specific event date and times.



---

[N] [USCG-2019-0150, 84 FR 51404, Sept. 30, 2019]




