# ยง 52.1023   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) *Determination.* EPA is determining that, as of July 21, 1995, the Lewiston-Auburn ozone nonattainment area has attained the ozone standard and that the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act do not apply to the area for so long as the area does not monitor any violations of the ozone standard. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Lewiston-Auburn ozone nonattainment area, these determinations shall no longer apply. 


(b) *Determination.* EPA is determining that, as of July 21, 1995, the Knox and Lincoln Counties ozone nonattainment area has attained the ozone standard and that the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act do not apply to the area for so long as the area does not monitor any violations of the ozone standard. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Knox and Lincoln Counties ozone nonattainment area, these determinations shall no longer apply.


(c) *Approval.* EPA is approving an exemption request submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on September 7, 1995, for the Northern Maine area from the NO_X_ requirements contained in Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act. This approval exempts Oxford, Franklin, Somerset, Piscataquis, Penobscot, Washington, Aroostook, Hancock and Waldo Counties from the requirements to implement controls beyond those approved in ยง 52.1020(c)(41) for major sources of nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), nonattainment area new source review (NSR) for new sources and modifications that are major for NO_X_, and the applicable NO_X_-related requirements of the general and transportation conformity provisions.


(d) *Approval.* EPA is approving an exemption request from the NO_X_ requirements contained in Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act for northern Maine. The exemption request was submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on March 24, 2005, and supplemented on April 19 and June 28, 2005. This approval exempts major sources of nitrogen oxides in Aroostook, Franklin, Oxford, Penobscot, Piscataquis, Somerset, Washington, and portions of Hancock and Waldo Counties from the requirements to implement controls meeting reasonably available control technology under the Clean Air Act, and nonattainment area new source review (NSR) for new sources and modifications. In Waldo County, this area includes only the following towns: Belfast, Belmont, Brooks, Burnham, Frankfort, Freedom, Jackson, Knox, Liberty, Lincolnville, Monroe, Montville, Morrill, Northport, Palermo, Prospect, Searsmont, Searsport, Stockton Springs, Swanville, Thorndike, Troy, Unity, Waldo, and Winterport. In Hancock County, this area includes only the following towns and townships: Amherst, Aurora, Bucksport, Castine, Dedham, Eastbrook, Ellsworth, Franklin, Great Pond, Mariaville, Orland, Osborn, Otis, Penobscot, Verona, Waltham, Oqiton Township (T4 ND), T3 ND, T39 MD, T40 MD, T41 MD, T32 MD, T34 MD, T35 MD, T28 MD, T22 MD, T16 MD, T8 SD, T9 SD, T10 SD, and T7 SD.


(e) *Approval.* EPA is approving a revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on June 9 and 13, 2005. The revision is for purposes of satisfying the rate of progress requirements of section 182(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Portland Maine one-hour ozone nonattainment area.


(f) *Approval.* EPA is approving a revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on June 9, 13, and 14, 2005. The revision is for purposes of satisfying the 5 percent increment of progress requirement of 40 CFR 51.905(a)(1)(ii)(B) for the Portland Maine eight-hour ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2007 of 20.115 tons per summer day (tpsd) of volatile organic compound (VOC) and 39.893 tpsd of nitrogen oxide (NO_X_) to be used in transportation conformity in the Portland Maine 8-hour ozone nonattainment area.


(g) Approval. EPA is approving a redesignation request for the Portland, Maine 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. Maine submitted this request on August 3, 2006. The request contains the required Clean Air Act Section 175A maintenance plan. The plan establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2016 of 16.659 tons per summer day (tpsd) of volatile organic compound and 32.837 tpsd of nitrogen oxide (NO_X_) to be used in transportation conformity determinations in the Portland area.


(h) Approval. EPA is approving a redesignation request for the Hancock, Knox, Lincoln and Waldo Counties, Maine 8-hour ozone nonattainment area. Maine submitted this request on August 3, 2006. The request contains the required Clean Air Act Section 175A maintenance plan. The plan establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2016 of 3.763 tons per summer day (tpsd) of volatile organic compound and 6.245 tpsd of nitrogen oxide (NO_X_) to be used in transportation conformity determinations in the Hancock, Knox, Lincoln and Waldo Counties area.


(i) Approval: EPA is approving the 110(a)(1) 8-hour ozone maintenance plans in the four areas of the state required to have a 110(a)(1) maintenance plan for the 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard. These areas are as follows: portions of York and Cumberland Counties; portions of Androscoggin County and all of Kennebec County; portions of Knox and Lincoln Counties; and portions of Hancock and Waldo Counties. These maintenance plans were submitted to EPA on August 3, 2006.


(j) Approval. EPA is approving an exemption request from the nitrogen oxides (NOx) requirements contained in Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act for the entire state of Maine for purposes of the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard. The exemption request was submitted by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection on October 13, 2012. This approval exempts, for purposes of the 2008 ozone standard, major sources of nitrogen oxides in Maine from:


(1) The requirement to implement controls meeting reasonably available control technology (RACT) for NO_X_; and


(2) Nonattainment area new source review requirements for major new and modified sources as they apply to emissions of NO_X_.



---

[N] [60 FR 29766, June 6, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 66755, Dec. 26, 1995; 71 FR 5794, Feb. 3, 2006; 71 FR 14816, Mar. 24, 2006; 71 FR 71490, Dec. 11, 2006; 73 FR 5101, Jan. 29, 2008; 79 FR 43955, July 29, 2014]




