# ยง 1005.755   Deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure.

(a) *Requirements.* In lieu of instituting or completing a foreclosure, the Servicer or HUD may acquire a property by voluntary conveyance from the Borrowers. Conveyance of the property by deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure is allowed subject to the Servicer's compliance with the following requirements:


(1) The lease-in-lieu of foreclosure for a property on Trust Land shall be approved by the Tribe prior to execution and by the BIA at recordation.


(2) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is in default at the time of the deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure is executed and delivered;


(3) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is satisfied of record as a part of the consideration for such conveyance;


(4) The deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure from the Borrower contains a covenant which warrants against the acts of the grantor and all claiming by, through, or under the grantor and conveys Good and Marketable Title, or for leases, assigns without objectionable encumbrances;


(5) With respect to Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on fee simple lands, the Servicer transfers to HUD Good and Marketable Title accompanied by satisfactory title evidence.


(6) With respect to Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on Trust Lands, the Servicer provides to HUD a certified Title Status Report, or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance evidencing assignment to HUD without any objectionable encumbrances.


(7) The property must meet the property conditions under ยง 1005.769. HUD may consent to conveyance of the property by deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure when property does not meet ยง 1005.769 in accordance with procedures in Section 184 Program Guidance.


(b) *Required documentation.* A written agreement must be executed by the Borrower and Servicer which contains all of the conditions under which the deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure will be accepted.


(c) *Conveyance to Servicer.* Upon execution of the deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure document(s), the Servicer must file for record no later than two business days from receipt.


(d) *Conveyance to HUD, where applicable.* After evidence of recordation is available, the Servicer shall convey the property to HUD in accordance with ยง 1005.771.


(e) *Reporting for Credit Purposes.* The Servicer must comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, State, and local reporting requirements, including but not limited to reporting to credit reporting agencies.






