# ยง 52.177   Application for renewal.

(a) Not less than 12 months, nor more than 5 years before the expiration of the manufacturing license, or any later renewal period, the holder of the manufacturing license may apply for a renewal of the license. An application for renewal must contain all information necessary to bring up to date the information and data contained in the previous application.


(b) The filing of an application for a renewed license must be in accordance with subpart A of 10 CFR part 2 and 10 CFR 52.3 and 50.30.


(c) A manufacturing license, either original or renewed, for which a timely application for renewal has been filed, remains in effect until the Commission has made a final determination on the renewal application, *provided, however,* that in accordance with ยง 52.173, the holder of a manufacturing license may not begin manufacture of a reactor less than 3 years before the expiration of the license.


(d) Any person whose interest may be affected by renewal of the license may request a hearing on the application for renewal. The request for a hearing must comply with 10 CFR 2.309. If a hearing is granted, notice of the hearing will be published in accordance with 10 CFR 2.104.


(e) The Commission shall refer a copy of the application for renewal to the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards (ACRS). The ACRS shall report on those portions of the application which concern safety and shall apply the criteria set forth in ยง 52.159.



---

[N] [72 FR 49517, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 57721, July 16, 2024] 






