# § 172.135   Disodium EDTA.

The food additive disodium EDTA (disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate) may be safely used in designated foods for the purposes and in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) The additive contains a minimum of 99 percent disodium ethylenedia-minetetraacetate dihydrate (C_10_H_14_O_8_N_2_Na_2_·2H_2_O).


(b) It is used or intended for use as follows:


(1) Alone, in the following foods at not to exceed the levels prescribed, calculated as anhydrous calcium disodium EDTA:


(2) With calcium disodium EDTA (calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate; calcium disodium (ethylenedinitrilo) tetraacetate), in the following foods at not to exceed, in combination, the levels prescribed, calculated as anhydrous C_10_H_12_O_8_N_2_CaNa_2_:


(3) Alone, as a sequestrant in the nonnutritive sweeteners that are listed in § 180.37 of this chapter and that, in addition, are designed for aqueous solution: *Provided,* That the amount of the additive, calculated as anhydrous calcium disodium EDTA, does not exceed 0.1 percent by weight of the dry nonnutritive sweetener.


(c) To assure the safe use of the additive:


(1) The label and labeling of the additive container shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the name of the additive.


(2) The label or labeling of the additive container shall bear adequate use directions to provide a final food product that complies with the limitations provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) In the standardized foods listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section the additives are used only in compliance with the applicable standards of identity for such foods.



---

[N] [42 FR 14491, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 65 FR 48379, Aug. 8, 2000]




