# § 711.10   Activities for which reporting is not required.

A person described in § 711.8 is not subject to the requirements of this part with respect to any chemical substance described in § 711.5, when:


(a) The person manufactured or imported the chemical substance solely in small quantities for research and development.


(b) The person imported the chemical substance as part of an article.


(c) The person manufactured the chemical substance in a manner described in 40 CFR 720.30(g) or (h).


(d) The person manufactured the chemical substance in any of the following manners:


(1) Byproduct substances listed in paragraph (i) of this section for the following manufacturing processes, when recycled or otherwise used within a site-limited, physically enclosed system that is part of the same overall manufacturing process from which the byproduct substance was generated, and when the site is reporting the byproduct or a different chemical substance that was manufactured from the recycled byproduct or manufactured in the same overall manufacturing process:


(i) *List of processes and certain related byproduct substances.* (A) Portland Cement Manufacturing (*i.e.,* CASRN 68475-76-3, Flue dust, portland cement).


(B) Kraft Pulping Process (*i.e.,* CASRN 66071-92-9, Sulfite liquors and Cooking liquors, spent; CASRN 68514-09-0, Sulfite liquors and Cooking liquors, spent, oxidized; and CASRN 471-34-1, Carbonic acid calcium salt (1:1)).


(ii) *Amendments.* EPA may amend the exemptions list in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section on its own initiative or in response to a request from the public based on EPA's determination of whether the byproduct substance and process described meet the criteria explained in this paragraph (d)(1), based on the requirements and considerations listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section.


(A) Any person may request that EPA amend the chemical substance list in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. Your request must be in writing and must be submitted to the address provided in 40 CFR 700.17(a). Please label your request as follows: Attention: TSCA Chemical Data Reporting—Byproduct Exemption Request. Requests must identify the manufacturing process and byproduct chemical substance in question, as well as its CASRN or other chemical identification number as identified in 40 CFR 711.15(b)(3)(i), and must contain a written rationale for the request that provides sufficient specific information, addressing the requirements and considerations listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, including citations and relevant documents, to demonstrate to EPA that the byproduct substance and process in question either does or does not meet the criteria explained in this paragraph (d)(1). If a request related to a particular byproduct substance and process is resubmitted, any subsequent request must clearly identify new information contained in the request. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the request. EPA will issue a written response to each request within 120 days of receipt of the request and will maintain copies of these responses in a docket that will be established for each reporting cycle.


(B) In making its determination whether this exemption should apply to a particular manufacturing process and related byproduct substance, the following two requirements must be met:


(*1*) The byproduct substance is recycled or otherwise used to manufacture another chemical substance within an enclosed system, within the same overall manufacturing process, and on the same site as that byproduct was originally manufactured.


(*2*) The site is reporting under CDR other chemical substances, in particular a chemical substance other than the byproduct substance that was manufactured from the byproduct or manufactured in the same overall manufacturing process.


(C) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, EPA will consider the totality of information available for the process and related byproduct substance in question, including but not limited to, one or both of the following considerations:


(*1*) Whether EPA has a current interest in the byproduct substance.


(*2*) Whether the byproduct substance must have already been reported under CDR, or would be expected to be reported if not exempted by this exemption.


(D) After granting a petition, the Agency will initiate rulemaking to make revisions to the list of substances in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(E) To assist EPA in reaching a decision regarding a particular request prior to a given principal reporting year, requests must be submitted to EPA no later than 12 months prior to the start of the next principal reporting year.


(2) A quantity of the byproduct that is manufactured solely in the following equipment when it is not integral to the chemical manufacturing processes of the site:


(i) Pollution control equipment.


(ii) Boilers used to generate heat or electricity for that site.



---

[N] [85 FR 20139, Apr. 9, 2020]




