# ยง 1955.62   Removal and disposition of nonsecurity personal property from inventory real property.

If the former borrower has vacated the inventory property but left items of value which do not customarily pass with title to the real estate, such as furniture, personal effects, and chattels not covered by an Rural Development lien, the personal property will be handled as outlined below unless otherwise directed by a State supplement approved by OGC which is necessary to comply with State law. For MFH, the removal and disposition of nonsecurity personal property will be handled in accordance with the tenant's lease or advice from OGC. When property is deemed to have no value, it is recommended that it be photographed for documentation before it is disposed of. The Rural Development official having custody of the property may request advice from the State Office staff as necessary. Actions to effect removal of items of value from inventory property shall be as follows:


(a) *Notification to owner or lienholder.* The servicing official will check the public records to see if there is a lien on any of the personal property.


(1) If there is a lien(s) of record, the servicing official will notify the lienholder(s) by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the personal property will be disposed of by Rural Development unless it is removed from the premises within 7 days from the date of the letter.


(2) If there are no liens of record, or if a lienholder notified in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section fails to remove the property within the time specified, the servicing official will notify the former borrower at the last known address by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the personal property remaining on the premises will be disposed of by Rural Development unless it is removed within 7 days from the date of the letter. If no address can be determined, a copy of the letter should be posted on the front door of the property and documentation entered in the running record of the Rural Development file.


(b) *Disposal of unclaimed personal property.* If the property is not removed by the former borrower or a lienholder after notification as outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the servicing official shall list the items with clear description, estimated value, and indication of which are covered by a lien, if any, and submit the list to the State Director with a request for authorization to have the items removed and disposed of. Based on advice from OGC, the State Director will give authorization and provide instructions for removal and disposal of the personal property. If approved by OGC, the property may be disposed of as follows:


(1) If a reasonable amount can likely be realized by the agency from sale of the personal property, it may be sold at public sale. Items under lien will be sold first and the proceeds up to the amount of the lien paid to the lienholders less a pro rata share of the sale expenses. Proceeds from sale of items not under lien and proceeds in excess of the amount due a lienholder will be remitted and applied in the following order:


(i) To the inventory account up to the amount of expenses incurred by the Government in connection with sale of the personal property (such as advertising and auctioneer, if used).


(ii) To an unsatisfied balance on the Rural Development loan account, if any.


(iii) To the borrower, if whereabouts are known.


(2) If personal property is not sold, a mover or hauler may be authorized to take the items for moving costs. Refer to RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office) for guidance.


(c) *Payment of costs.* Upon payment of all expenses incurred by the Government in connection with the personal property, Rural Development will allow the former borrower or a lienholder access to the property to reclaim the personal property at any time prior to its disposal.


(d) *Removal of abandoned motor vehicles from inventory property.* Since State laws vary concerning disposal of abandoned motor vehicles, the State Director shall, with the advice of OGC, issue a State supplement outlining the method to be followed which will comply with applicable State laws.



---

[N] [53 FR 35765, Sept. 14, 1988, as amended at 68 FR 61332, Oct. 28, 2003]




