# ยง 4120.3-1   Conditions for range improvements.

(a) Range improvements shall be installed, used, maintained, and/or modified on the public lands, or removed from these lands, in a manner consistent with multiple-use management.


(b) Prior to installing, using, maintaining, and/or modifying range improvements on the public lands, permittees or lessees shall have entered into a cooperative range improvement agreement with the Bureau of Land Management or must have an approved range improvement permit.


(c) The authorized officer may require a permittee or lessee to maintain and/or modify range improvements on the public lands under ยง 4130.3-2 of this title.


(d) The authorized officer may require a permittee or lessee to install range improvements on the public lands in an allotment with two or more permittees or lessees and/or to meet the terms and conditions of agreement.


(e) A range improvement permit or cooperative range improvement agreement does not convey to the permittee or cooperator any right, title, or interest in any lands or resources held by the United States.


(f) The authorized officer will review proposed range improvement projects as required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*). The decision document following the environmental analysis shall be issued in accordance with ยง 4160.1.



---

[N] [49 FR 6452, Feb. 21, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 9964, Feb. 22, 1995; 61 FR 4227, Feb. 5, 1996; 71 FR 39505, July 12, 2006]




