# ยง 1000.1460   How does the Secretary make advance payments to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement or construction project agreement?

(a) For all construction projects performed under a funding agreement or construction project agreement, advance payments shall be made annually or semiannually, at the Tribe's/Consortium's option as provided in 25 U.S.C. 5367(f). The initial payment shall include all contingency funding for the project or phase of the project to the extent that there are funds appropriated for that purpose.


(b) The amount of subsequent advance payments is based on the mutually agreeable project schedule reflecting:


(1) Work to be accomplished within the advance payment period;


(2) Work already accomplished; and


(3) Total prior payments for each annual or semiannual advance payment period.


(c) For lump sum, fixed price agreements, at the request of the Tribe/Consortium, payments shall be based on an advance payment period measured as follows:


(1) One year; or


(2) Project Phase (*e.g.,* planning, design, construction). If project phase is chosen by the Tribe/Consortium as the payment period, the full amount of funds necessary to perform the work for that phase of the construction project agreement is payable in the initial advance payment. For multi-phase projects, the planning and design phases must be completed prior to the transfer of funds by the Secretary for the associated construction phase. The completion of the planning and design phases will include at least one opportunity for Secretarial approval in accordance with ยง 1000.1435.


(d) For construction project agreements, the amount of advance payments shall include the funds necessary to perform the work identified in the advance payment period of one year.


(e) Any agreement to advance funds under paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this section is subject to the availability of appropriations.


(f) Initial advance payments are due within 10 days of the effective date of the funding agreement or construction project agreement, and subsequent advance payments are due:


(1) Within 10 days of apportionment for annual payments, or


(2) Within 10 days of the start date of the project phase for phase payments.






