# § 141.83   Type of invoice required.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Commercial invoice.* (1) A commercial invoice shall be filed for each shipment of merchandise not exempted by paragraph (d) of this section. The commercial invoice shall be prepared in the manner customary in the trade, contain the information required by §§ 141.86 through 141.89, and substantiate the statistical information required by § 141.61(e) to be given on the entry, entry summary, or withdrawal documentation. 


(2) CBP may accept a copy of a required commercial invoice in place of the original. A copy, other than a photostatic or photographic copy, shall contain a declaration by the foreign seller, the shipper, or the importer that it is a true copy. 


(d) *Commercial invoice not required.* A commercial invoice shall not be required in connection with the filing of the entry, entry summary, or withdrawal documentation for merchandise listed in this paragraph. The importer, however, shall present any invoice, memorandum invoice, or bill pertaining to the merchandise which may be in his possession or available to him. If no invoice or bill is available, a pro forma (or substitute) invoice, as provided for in § 141.85, shall be filed, and shall contain information adequate for the examination of merchandise and the determination of duties, and information and documentation which verify the information required for statistical purposes by § 141.61(e). The merchandise subject to the foregoing requirements is as follows: 


(1) [Reserved]


(2) Merchandise not intended for sale or any commercial use in its imported condition or any other form, and not brought in on commission for any person other than the importer. 


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(5) Merchandise returned to the United States after having been exported for repairs or alteration under subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.60, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202). 


(6) Merchandise shipped abroad, not delivered to the consignee, and returned to the United States. 


(7) Merchandise exported from continuous Customs custody within 6 months after the date of entry. 


(8) Merchandise consigned to, or entered in the name of, any agency of the U.S. Government. 


(9) Merchandise for which an appraisement entry is accepted. 


(10) Merchandise entered temporarily into the Customs territory of the United States under bond or for permanent exhibition under bond.


(11) Merchandise provided for in section 466, Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1466), which pertain to certain equipment, repair parts, and supplies for vessels. 


(12) Merchandise imported as supplies, stores, and equipment of the importing carrier and subsequently made subject to entry pursuant to section 446, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1446). 


(13) Ballast (not including cargo used for ballast) landed from a vessel and delivered for consumption. 


(14) Merchandise, whether privileged or nonprivileged, resulting from manipulation or manufacture in a foreign trade zone. 


(15) Screenings contained in bulk importations of grain or seeds.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973]


