# ยง 1081.212   Dispositive motions.

(a) *Dispositive motions.* This section governs the filing of motions to dismiss and motions for summary disposition. The filing of any such motion does not obviate a party's obligation to file an answer or take any other action required by this part or by an order of the hearing officer, unless expressly so provided by the hearing officer.


(b) *Motions to dismiss.* A respondent may file a motion to dismiss asserting that, even assuming the truth of the facts alleged in the notice of charges, it is entitled to dismissal as a matter of law.


(c) *Motion for summary disposition.* A party may make a motion for summary disposition asserting that the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition show that:


(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and


(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in the moving party's favor as a matter of law.


(d) *Filing of motions for summary disposition and responses.* (1) After a respondent's answer has been filed and documents have been made available to the respondent for inspection and copying pursuant to ยง 1081.206, any party may move for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding.


(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support the moving party's position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which the opposing party contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as may be submitted in support of a motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.


(3) Any affidavit or declaration submitted in support of or in opposition to a motion for summary disposition must set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, must show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein, and must be signed under oath and penalty of perjury.


(e) *Page limitations for dispositive motions.* A motion to dismiss or for summary disposition, together with any brief in support of the motion (exclusive of any declarations, affidavits, or attachments) may not exceed 35 pages in length. Motions for extensions of this length limitation are disfavored.


(f) *Opposition and reply response time and page limitation.* Any party, within 21 days after service of a dispositive motion, or within such period as allowed by the hearing officer, may file a response to such motion. The length limitations set forth in paragraph (e) of this section also apply to such responses. Any reply brief filed in response to an opposition to a dispositive motion must be filed within seven days after service of the opposition. Reply briefs may not exceed ten pages.


(g) *Relationship to scheduling of hearing.* A respondent's filing of a dispositive motion constitutes a request that the hearing not be held until after the motion is resolved. The hearing officer will decide whether to grant such a request. If the request is granted, the hearing officer will schedule the specific date of the hearing, in consultation with the parties.




