# § 1042.235   Emission testing related to certification.

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in § 1042.101(a) or § 1042.104. *See* § 1042.205(p) regarding emission testing related to the NTE standards. *See* §§ 1042.240 and 1042.245 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing. *See* § 1042.655 for special testing provisions available for Category 3 engines subject to Tier 3 standards.


(a) Select an emission-data engine from each engine family for testing. For engines at or above 560 kW, you may use a development engine that is equivalent in design to the engine being certified. For Category 3 engines, you may use a single-cylinder version of the engine. Using good engineering judgment, select the engine configuration most likely to exceed an applicable emission standard over the useful life, considering all exhaust emission constituents and the range of installation options available to vessel manufacturers.


(b) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the engine. In the case of flexible-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with the fuel mixture that best represents in-use operation or is most likely to have the highest NO_X_ emissions (or NO_X_+HC emissions for engines subject to NO_X_+HC standards), though you may ask us to instead to perform tests with both fuels separately if you can show that intermediate mixtures are not likely to occur in use.


(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:


(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the engine to a test facility we designate. The engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.


(2) If we measure emissions from one of your engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.


(3) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the specified adjustable ranges (*see* § 1042.115(d)).


(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply for an engine parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1042.901) because it is permanently sealed. For parameters that relate to a level of performance that is itself subject to a specified range (such as maximum power output), we will generally perform any calibration under this paragraph (c)(4) in a way that keeps performance within the specified range.


(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:


(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year, items identified in § 1042.225(a), or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. We may waive this criterion for differences we determine not to be relevant.


(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements of this part that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification. For engines originally tested to demonstrate compliance with Tier 1 or Tier 2 standards, you may consider those test procedures to be equivalent to the procedures we specify in subpart F of this part.


(e) We may require you to test a second engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine tested under paragraph (b) of this section.


(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.


(g) Measure CO_2_ with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 model year. Also measure CH_4_ from Category 1 and Category 2 engines with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2012 model year. Measure N_2_O from Category 1 and Category 2 engines with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of N_2_O and CH_4_. These measurements are not required for NTE testing. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:


(1) Round CO_2_ to the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.


(2) Round N_2_O to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.


(3) Round CH_4_ to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.



---

[N] [73 FR 37243, June 30, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56509, Oct. 30, 2009; 75 FR 23002, Apr. 30, 2010; 81 FR 74148, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34510, June 29, 2021]




