# ยง 436.610   Assignment of rights to benefits.

(a) As a condition of eligibility, the agency must require legally able applicants and beneficiaries to:


(1) Assign rights to the Medicaid agency to medical support and to payment for medical care from any third party;


(2) Cooperate with the agency in establishing paternity and in obtaining medical support and payments, unless the individual establishes good cause for not cooperating, and except for individuals described in section 1902(l)(1)(A) of the Act (poverty level pregnant women), who are exempt from cooperating in establishing paternity and obtaining medical support and payments from, or derived from, the father of the child born out of wedlock; and 


(3) Cooperate in identifying and providing information to assist the Medicaid agency in pursuing third parties who may be liable to pay for care and services under the plan, unless the individual establishes good cause for not cooperating.


(b) The requirements for assignment of rights must be applied uniformly for all groups covered under the plan. 


(c) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for assignment of rights to medical support and other payments and cooperation in obtaining medical support and payments are effective for medical assistance furnished on or after October 1, 1984. The requirement for cooperation in identifying and providing information for pursuing liable third parties is effective for medical assistance furnished on or after July 1, 1986. 



---

[N] [55 FR 48610, Nov. 21, 1990; 55 FR 52130, Dec. 19, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 4908, Jan. 19, 1993. Redesignated at 58 FR 4937, Jan. 19, 1993] 




