# § 122.6   Continuation of expiring permits.

(a) *EPA permits.* When EPA is the permit-issuing authority, the conditions of an expired permit continue in force under 5 U.S.C. 558(c) until the effective date of a new permit (see § 124.15) if:


(1) The permittee has submitted a timely application under § 122.21 which is a complete (under § 122.21(e)) application for a new permit; and 


(2) The Regional Administrator, through no fault of the permittee does not issue a new permit with an effective date under § 124.15 on or before the expiration date of the previous permit (for example, when issuance is impracticable due to time or resource constraints).


(b) *Effect.* Permits continued under this section remain fully effective and enforceable.


(c) *Enforcement.* When the permittee is not in compliance with the conditions of the expiring or expired permit the Regional Administrator may choose to do any or all of the following:


(1) Initiate enforcement action based upon the permit which has been continued;


(2) Issue a notice of intent to deny the new permit under § 124.6. If the permit is denied, the owner or operator would then be required to cease the activities authorized by the continued permit or be subject to enforcement action for operating without a permit;


(3) Issue a new permit under part 124 with appropriate conditions; or 


(4) Take other actions authorized by these regulations.


(d) *State continuation.* (1) An EPA-issued permit does not continue in force beyond its expiration date under Federal law if at that time a State is the permitting authority. States authorized to administer the NPDES program may continue either EPA or State-issued permits until the effective date of the new permits, if State law allows. Otherwise, the facility or activity is operating without a permit from the time of expiration of the old permit to the effective date of the State-issued new permit.



---

[N] [48 FR 14153, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 6940, Feb. 19, 1985] 




