# § 29.975   Fuel tank vents and carburetor vapor vents.

(a) *Fuel tank vents.* Each fuel tank must be vented from the top part of the expansion space so that venting is effective under normal flight conditions. In addition—


(1) The vents must be arranged to avoid stoppage by dirt or ice formation; 


(2) The vent arrangement must prevent siphoning of fuel during normal operation; 


(3) The venting capacity and vent pressure levels must maintain acceptable differences of pressure between the interior and exterior of the tank, during—


(i) Normal flight operation; 


(ii) Maximum rate of ascent and descent; and 


(iii) Refueling and defueling (where applicable); 


(4) Airspaces of tanks with interconnected outlets must be interconnected; 


(5) There may be no point in any vent line where moisture can accumulate with the rotorcraft in the ground attitude or the level flight attitude, unless drainage is provided; 


(6) No vent or drainage provision may end at any point—


(i) Where the discharge of fuel from the vent outlet would constitute a fire hazard; or 


(ii) From which fumes could enter personnel compartments; and 


(7) The venting system must be designed to minimize spillage of fuel through the vents to an ignition source in the event of a rollover during landing, ground operations, or a survivable impact.


(b) *Carburetor vapor vents.* Each carburetor with vapor elimination connections must have a vent line to lead vapors back to one of the fuel tanks. In addition—


(1) Each vent system must have means to avoid stoppage by ice; and 


(2) If there is more than one fuel tank, and it is necessary to use the tanks in a definite sequence, each vapor vent return line must lead back to the fuel tank used for takeoff and landing. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-26, 53 FR 34217, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 29-35, 59 FR 50388, Oct. 3, 1994; Amdt. 29-42, 63 FR 43285, Aug. 12, 1998]




