# 22.1008-1   Obtaining wage determinations.

(a) Contracting officers may obtain most prevailing wage determinations using the Wage Determinations at *SAM.gov* website. Contracting officers may also use the Department of Labor's e98 electronic process, located on the Wage Determinations at *SAM.gov* website, to request a wage determination directly from the Department of Labor. If the Wage Determinations at *SAM.gov* database does not contain the applicable prevailing wage determination for a contract action, the contracting officer must use the e98 process to request a wage determination from the Department of Labor.


(b) In using the e98 process to obtain prevailing wage determinations, contracting officers shall provide as complete and accurate information on the e98 as possible. Contracting officers shall ensure that the email address submitted on an e98 request is accurate.


(c) The contracting officer must anticipate the amount of time required to gather the information necessary to obtain a wage determination, including sufficient time, if necessary, to contact the Department of Labor to request wage determinations that are not available through use of the Wage Determinations at *SAM.gov*.


(d) Although the Wage Determinations at *SAM.gov*  website provides assistance to the contracting agency to select the correct wage determination, the contracting agency remains responsible for the wage determination selected. If the contracting agency has used the e98 process, the Department of Labor will respond to the contracting agency based on the information provided on the e98. The contracting agency may rely upon the Department of Labor response as the correct wage determination for the contract.


(e) To obtain the applicable wage determination for each contract action, the contracting officer shall determine the following information concerning the service employees expected to be employed by the contractor and any subcontractors in performing the contract:


(1) Determine the classes of service employees to be utilized in performance of the contract using the Wage and Hour Division's *Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations* (Directory). The Directory can be found on Wage Determinations at *SAM.gov* Library Page, and is for sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Publishing Office.


(2) Determine the locality where the services will be performed (see 22.1009).


(3) Determine whether 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) applies (see 22.1008-2, 22.1010 and 22.1012-2).


(4) Determine the wage rate that would be paid each class if employed by the agency and subject to the wage provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 and/or 5332 (see 22.1016).


(f) If the contracting officer has questions regarding the procedures for obtaining a wage determination, or questions regarding the selection of a wage determination, the contracting officer should request assistance from the agency labor advisor.



---

[N] [71 FR 36933, June 28, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 24207, Apr. 29, 2014; 84 FR 19847, May 6, 2019; 86 FR 71325, Dec. 15, 2021]




