# § 74.1101   FD&C Blue No. 1

(a) *Identity.* (1) For ingested drugs, the color additive FD&C Blue No. 1 shall conform in identity to the requirements of § 74.101(a)(1).


(2) For externally applied drugs, the color additive FD&C Blue No. 1 shall conform in identity to the requirements of § 74.2101(a).


(3) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with FD&C Blue No. 1 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* (1) The color additive FD&C Blue No. 1 for use in coloring drugs generally shall conform in specifications to the requirements of § 74.101(b).


(2) FD&C Blue No. 1 Aluminum Lake shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of § 82.51 of this chapter.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* (1) FD&C Blue No. 1 may be safely used for coloring drugs, including drugs intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice.


(2) FD&C Blue No. 1 Aluminum Lake may be safely used for coloring drugs intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice, subject to the restrictions on the use of color additives in § 70.5(b) and (c) of this chapter.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of FD&C Blue No. 1 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.



---

[N] [47 FR 42565, Sept. 28, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 7638, Feb. 16, 1994]




