# ยง 32.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term:


(a) *Agency School Board* means a body, the members of which are appointed by the school boards of the schools located within such agency, and the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected Tribes or Alaska Native entities except that, in agencies serving a single school, the school board of such school shall fulfill these duties.


(b) *Alaska Native* means an Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut who is a member of an Alaska Native entity.


(c) *Alaska Native Entity* means any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).


(d) *Alaska Native Village* means any Native village as defined in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 689; 43 U.S.C. 1602 (c)).


(e) *Boarding school,* hereinafter referred to as *residential school,* means a Bureau school offering residential care and support services as well as an academic program.


(f) *Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.


(g) *Consultation* means a conferring process with Tribes, Alaska Native entities, and Tribal organizations on a periodic and systematic basis in which the Bureau and Department officials listen to and give effect, to the extent they can, to the views of these entities.


(h) *Contract school* means a school (other than a public school) which is Tribally operated and aided by a financial assistance contract with the Bureau.


(i) *Day school* means a Bureau school offering an academic program and certain support services such as counseling, food, transportation, etc., but excluding residential care. 


(j) *Director* means the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs.


(k) *Early childhood education* means comprehensive education activities with continuity of educational approach for children ages 0-8 years and their families, appropriate for their age, development, language and culture which supplement and support usual family responsibilities for child growth and development. They are coordinated with, but do not supplant, existing educational, health, nutritional, social and other necessary services.


(l) *Exceptional Education Programs* mean the provision of services to those children who are identified as handicapped and have been found to meet the criteria of handicapped as defined in Pub. L. 94-142, and programs for gifted and talented students.


(m) *Indian* means a member of an Indian Tribe.


(n) *Indian Organization* means any group, association, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity owned or controlled by a federally recognized Indian Tribe or Tribes, or a majority of whose members are members of federally recognized Indian Tribes.


(o) *Indian Tribe* or *Tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony, or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


(p) *Local school board,* when used with respect to a Bureau school, means a body chosen in accordance with the laws of the Tribe or Alaska Native entity to be served or, in the absence of such laws, elected by the parents of the Indian children attending the school, except that in schools serving a substantial number of students from different Tribes or Alaska Native entities the members shall be appointed by the governing bodies of the Tribes and entities affected; and, the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected Tribes and entities.


(q) *Post-secondary* education means any education program beyond the age of compulsory education, including higher education, career, vocational, and technical.


(r) *Tribal Organization* means an organization composed of or duly representing Tribal governments which may be national or regional in scope and function.




