# § 61.1   Applicability and definitions.

(a) Except as provided in parts 107 and 194 of this chapter, this part prescribes:


(1) The requirements for issuing pilot, flight instructor, and ground instructor certificates and ratings; the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary; and the privileges and limitations of those certificates and ratings.


(2) The requirements for issuing pilot, flight instructor, and ground instructor authorizations; the conditions under which those authorizations are necessary; and the privileges and limitations of those authorizations.


(3) The requirements for issuing pilot, flight instructor, and ground instructor certificates and ratings for persons who have taken courses approved by the Administrator under other parts of this chapter.


(b) For the purpose of this part: 


*Accredited* has the same meaning as defined by the Department of Education in 34 CFR 600.2.


*Aeronautical experience* means pilot time obtained in an aircraft, flight simulator, or flight training device for meeting the appropriate training and flight time requirements for an airman certificate, rating, flight review, or recency of flight experience requirements of this part. 


*Authorized instructor* means— 


(i) A person who holds a ground instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter and is in compliance with § 61.217, when conducting ground training in accordance with the privileges and limitations of his or her ground instructor certificate;


(ii) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter and is in compliance with § 61.197, when conducting ground training or flight training in accordance with the privileges and limitations of his or her flight instructor certificate; or


(iii) A person authorized by the Administrator to provide ground training or flight training under part 61, 121, 135, or 142 of this chapter when conducting ground training or flight training in accordance with that authority.


*Aviation training device* means a training device, other than a full flight simulator or flight training device, that has been evaluated, qualified, and approved by the Administrator.


*Complex airplane* means an airplane that has a retractable landing gear, flaps, and a controllable pitch propeller, including airplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller, such as a full authority digital engine control; or, in the case of a seaplane, flaps and a controllable pitch propeller, including seaplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller, such as a full authority digital engine control.


*Cross-country time* means—


(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (ii) through (vii) of this definition, time acquired during flight—


(A) Conducted by a person who holds a pilot certificate;


(B) Conducted in an aircraft;


(C) That includes a landing at a point other than the point of departure; and


(D) That involves the use of dead reckoning, pilotage, electronic navigation aids, radio aids, or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point.


(ii) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements (except for a rotorcraft category rating), for a private pilot certificate (except for a powered parachute category rating), a commercial pilot certificate, or an instrument rating, or for the purpose of exercising recreational pilot privileges (except in a rotorcraft) under § 61.101 (c), time acquired during a flight—


(A) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft;


(B) That includes a point of landing that was at least a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and


(C) That involves the use of dead reckoning, pilotage, electronic navigation aids, radio aids, or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point.


(iii) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements for a sport pilot certificate (except for powered parachute privileges), time acquired during a flight conducted in an appropriate aircraft that—


(A) Includes a point of landing at least a straight line distance of more than 25 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and


(B) Involves, as applicable, the use of dead reckoning; pilotage; electronic navigation aids; radio aids; or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point.


(iv) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements for a sport pilot certificate with powered parachute privileges or a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute category rating, time acquired during a flight conducted in an appropriate aircraft that—


(A) Includes a point of landing at least a straight line distance of more than 15 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and


(B) Involves, as applicable, the use of dead reckoning; pilotage; electronic navigation aids; radio aids; or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point.


(v) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements for any pilot certificate with a rotorcraft category rating or an instrument-helicopter rating, or for the purpose of exercising recreational pilot privileges, in a rotorcraft, under § 61.101(c), time acquired during a flight—


(A) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft;


(B) That includes a point of landing that was at least a straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and


(C) That involves the use of dead reckoning, pilotage, electronic navigation aids, radio aids, or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point.


(vi) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements for an airline transport pilot certificate (except with a rotorcraft category rating), time acquired during a flight—


(A) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft;


(B) That is at least a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and


(C) That involves the use of dead reckoning, pilotage, electronic navigation aids, radio aids, or other navigation systems.


(vii) For a military pilot who qualifies for a commercial pilot certificate (except with a rotorcraft category rating) under § 61.73 of this part, time acquired during a flight—


(A) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft;


(B) That is at least a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and


(C) That involves the use of dead reckoning, pilotage, electronic navigation aids, radio aids, or other navigation systems. 


*Examiner* means any person who is authorized by the Administrator to conduct a pilot proficiency test or a practical test for an airman certificate or rating issued under this part, or a person who is authorized to conduct a knowledge test under this part. 


*Flight training* means that training, other than ground training, received from an authorized instructor in flight in an aircraft. 


*Ground training* means that training, other than flight training, received from an authorized instructor. 


*Institution of higher education* has the same meaning as defined by the Department of Education in 34 CFR 600.4.


*Instrument approach* means an approach procedure defined in part 97 of this chapter. 


*Instrument training* means that time in which instrument training is received from an authorized instructor under actual or simulated instrument conditions. 


*Knowledge test* means a test on the aeronautical knowledge areas required for an airman certificate or rating that can be administered in written form or by a computer. 


*Nationally recognized accrediting agency* has the same meaning as defined by the Department of Education in 34 CFR 600.2.


*Night vision goggles* means an appliance worn by a pilot that enhances the pilot's ability to maintain visual surface reference at night.


*Night vision goggle operation* means the portion of a flight that occurs during the time period from 1 hour after sunset to 1 hour before sunrise where the pilot maintains visual surface reference using night vision goggles in an aircraft that is approved for such an operation.


*Passenger* means any person on board an aircraft other than a crewmember, FAA personnel, manufacturer personnel required for type certification, or a person receiving or providing flight training, checking, or testing as authorized by this part.


*Pilot time* means that time in which a person—


(i) Serves as a required pilot flight crewmember;


(ii) Receives training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft, full flight simulator, flight training device, or aviation training device; 


(iii) Gives training as an authorized instructor in an aircraft, full flight simulator, flight training device, or aviation training device; or


(iv) Serves as second in command in operations conducted in accordance with § 135.99(c) of this chapter when a second pilot is not required under the type certification of the aircraft or the regulations under which the flight is being conducted, provided the requirements in § 61.159(c) are satisfied.


*Practical test* means a test on the areas of operations for an airman certificate, rating, or authorization that is conducted by having the applicant respond to questions and demonstrate maneuvers in flight, in a flight simulator, or in a flight training device. 


*Set of aircraft* means aircraft that share similar performance characteristics, such as similar airspeed and altitude operating envelopes, similar handling characteristics, and the same number and type of propulsion systems.


*Student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate* means a person who has received an endorsement—


(i) To exercise student pilot privileges from a certificated flight instructor with a sport pilot rating; or


(ii) That includes a limitation for the operation of a light-sport aircraft specified in § 61.89(c) issued by a certificated flight instructor with other than a sport pilot rating. 


*Technically advanced airplane (TAA)* means an airplane equipped with an electronically advanced avionics system.


*Training time* means training received— 


(i) In flight from an authorized instructor; 


(ii) On the ground from an authorized instructor; or 


(iii) In a flight simulator or flight training device from an authorized instructor. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40893, July 30, 1997 as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44864, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42546, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-128, 76 FR 54105, Aug. 31, 2011; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42372, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-137, 81 FR 42208, June 28, 2016; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30276, June 27, 2018; Doc. No. FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. No. 61-156, 89 FR 80339, Oct. 2, 2024; FAA-2023-1275; Amdt. No. 61-157, 89 FR 92483, Nov. 21, 2024]






