# ยง 3560.66   Participation with other funding or financing sources.

(a) *General requirements.* The Agency encourages the use of funding or financing from other sources in conjunction with Agency loans. When the Agency is not the sole source of financing for MFH, the following conditions must be met.


(1) The Agency will enter into a participation (or intercreditor) agreement with the other participants that clearly defines each party's relationship and responsibilities to the others.


(2) The rental units that will serve tenants eligible for housing under the Agency's income standards must meet Agency standards and the number of units that will serve the Agency's tenants are at least equal to the units financed by the Agency.


(3) All rental units must be operated and managed in compliance with the requirements of the Agency and the other sources. To the extent these requirements overlap, the most stringent requirement must be met. The Agency may negotiate the resolution of overlapping requirements on a case-by-case basis; however, at a minimum, Agency requirements must be met.


(4) If the number of units subject to the LIHTC rent and income restrictions is greater than the number of units projected to receive Agency rental assistance (RA) or similar tenant subsidy, the market feasibility documentation must clearly reflect a need and demand by LIHTC income-eligible households financially able to afford the projected rents without such a subsidy for the units not receiving RA or similar tenant subsidy.


(b) *Rental assistance.* The Agency may provide rental assistance with MFH loans participating with other sources of funding under the following conditions:


(1) The Agency's loan equals at least 25 percent of the housing's total development cost.


(2) The rental assistance is provided only to those rental units where the basic rents do not exceed what basic rents would have been had the Agency provided full financing.


(3) The provisions of subpart F of this part are met.


(c) *Security requirements.* The security requirements of ยง 3560.61 must be met for all Agency-financed MFH participating with other sources of funding.


(d) *Reserve requirements.* Reserve account requirements will be determined on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration the reserve requirements of the other participating lenders, so that the aggregate fully funded reserve account is consistent with the requirements of ยง 3560.65. Reserve requirements and procedures for reserve account withdrawals must be agreed upon by all lenders and included in the intercreditor or participation agreement.


(e) *Design requirements.* Housing and related facilities must be planned and constructed in accordance with 7 CFR 1924, subparts A and C. If housing includes non-Agency financed common facilities, the following conditions must be met:


(1) The non-Agency-financed common facility's operating and maintenance costs must be paid through collection of a user fee from residents who use the facility,


(2) The non-Agency-financed common facility must be designed and operated with appropriate safeguards for the health and safety of tenants, and


(3) The facility must be fully available and accessible to all tenants. 




