# § 721.10574   Alkylcarboxy polyester acrylate reaction products with mixed metal oxides (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkylcarboxy polyester acrylate reaction products with mixed metal oxides (PMN P-09-48) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified § 721.80 (a) (if used in the form of a powder), (b) (if manufactured in the form of a powder), (c) (if processed in the form of a powder), (k) (transport to processors using only reusable tote tanks cleaned not more than once per year), (y)(1), and (y)(2).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(recycling of use waste stream via polymer reclamation as an alternative to incineration). (All incineration shall be via Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) approved hazardous waste incineration).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 61147, Oct. 5, 2012]




