# ยง 206.32   Definitions.

All definitions in the Stafford Act and in ยง 206.2 apply. In addition, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Appeal:* A request for reconsideration of a determination on any action related to Federal assistance under the Stafford Act and these regulations. Specific procedures for appeals are contained in the relevant subparts of these regulations.


(b) *Commitment:* A certification by the Governor that the State and local governments will expend a reasonable amount of funds to alleviate the effects of the major disaster or emergency, for which no Federal reimbursement will be requested.


(c) *Disaster Application Center:* A center established in a centralized location within the disaster area for individuals, families, or businesses to apply for disaster aid.


(d) *FEMA-State Agreement:* A formal legal document stating the understandings, commitments, and binding conditions for assistance applicable as the result of the major disaster or emergency declared by the President.


(e) *Incident:* Any condition which meets the definition of major disaster or emergency as set forth in ยง 206.2 which causes damage or hardship that may result in a Presidential declaration of a major disaster or an emergency.


(f) *Incident period:* The time interval during which the disaster-causing incident occurs. No Federal assistance under the Act shall be approved unless the damage or hardship to be alleviated resulted from the disaster-causing incident which took place during the incident period or was in anticipation of that incident. The incident period will be established by FEMA in the FEMA-State Agreement and published in the _Federal Register._

