# ยง 160.022-3   Materials, workmanship, construction, and performance requirements.

(a) *Materials.* The materials shall conform strictly to the specifications and drawings submitted by the manufacturer and approved by the Commandant. Metal for containers shall be not less than 0.5 mm (0.020 in.) in thickness. Other dimensions or materials may be considered upon special request when presented with supporting data. Igniter systems shall be corrosion-resistant metal. The combustible material shall be of such nature that it will not deteriorate during long storage, nor when subjected to frigid or tropical climates, or both.


(b) *Workmanship.* Floating orange smoke distress signals shall be of first class workmanship and shall be free from imperfections of manufacture affecting their appearance or that may affect their serviceability.


(c) *Construction.* The outer container shall be of a size suitable for its intended use. All sheet metal seams should be hook-jointed and soldered. The whole container shall be covered with two coats of waterproof paint or equivalent protection system. The igniter mechanism shall be simple to operate and provide ignition in most unfavorable weather. The mechanism shall be protected with a watertight cover having a finish which is corrosion-resistant to salt water and spray. The cover shall be easily and quickly removable by hand without the use of tools. If attachment of the cover is by formed screw threads, it shall be of such construction or material to prevent rusting or corrosion and will not back off and loosen under shipboard vibration.


(d) *Performance.* Signals shall meet all the inspection and test requirements contained in ยง 160.022-4.




