# § 748.5   Parties to the transaction.

The following parties may be entered on the application. The definitions, which also appear in part 772 of the EAR, are set out here for your convenience to assist you in filling out your application correctly. 


(a) *Applicant.* The person who applies for an export or reexport license, and who has the authority of a principal party in interest to determine and control the export or reexport of items. See § 748.4(a) and definition of “exporter” in part 772 of the EAR. 


(b) *Other party authorized to receive license.* The person authorized by the applicant to receive the license. If a person and address is listed in Block 15 of the application, the Bureau of Industry and Security will send the license to that person instead of the applicant. Designation of another party to receive the license does not alter the responsibilities of the applicant, licensee or exporter. 


(c) *Purchaser.* The person abroad who has entered into the transaction to purchase an item for delivery to the ultimate consignee. In most cases, the purchaser is not a bank, forwarding agent, or intermediary. The purchaser and ultimate consignee may be the same entity. 


(d) *Intermediate consignee.* The person that acts as an agent for a principal party in interest and takes possession of the items for the purpose of effecting delivery of the items to the ultimate consignee. The intermediate consignee may be a bank, forwarding agent, or other person who acts as an agent for a principal party in interest. 


(e) *Ultimate consignee.* The principal party in interest located abroad who receives the exported or reexported items. The ultimate consignee is not a forwarding agent or other intermediary, but may be the end-user. 


(f) *End-user.* The person abroad that receives and ultimately uses the exported or reexported items. The end-user is not a forwarding agent or intermediary, but may be the purchaser or ultimate consignee.



---

[N] [65 FR 42569, July 10, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 49330, Aug. 21, 2008]




