# ยง 44.207   To commercial vessels and aircraft for consumption as supplies.

Where tobacco products, or cigarette papers or tubes are removed from a factory or an export warehouse for delivery to a vessel or aircraft entitled to receive such articles for consumption as supplies beyond the jurisdiction of the internal revenue laws of the United States, the manufacturer or export warehouse proprietor making the shipment shall file two copies of the notice of removal, Form 5200.14, with the district director of customs at the port where the shipment is to be laden in sufficient time to permit delivery of the two copies of the notice of removal to the customs officer who will inspect the shipment and supervise its lading. After inspection and lading of the shipment the customs officer shall note on the copies of the notice of removal any discrepancy between the shipment inspected and laden under his supervision and that described on the notice of removal or any limitation on the quantity to be laden; complete and sign the certificate of inspection and lading; and return both copies of the notice of removal to the district director of customs. The district director of customs shall execute the certificate of clearance on both copies of the notice of removal, retain one copy for his records, and forward the other copy to the manufacturer or export warehouse proprietor making the shipment for filing with the appropriate TTB officer. Where the vessel or aircraft does not clear from the port at which the shipment is laden, the customs officer supervising the lading of the shipment shall require the person on board the vessel or aircraft authorized to receive the shipment to execute the certificate of receipt on both copies of the notice of removal to indicate the trade or activity in which the vessel or aircraft is engaged.



---

[N] [T.D. 6961, 33 FR 9493, June 28, 1968. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-232, 51 FR 28089, Aug. 5, 1986; T.D. ATF-243, 51 FR 43194, Dec. 1, 1986; T.D. ATF-421, 64 FR 71926, Dec. 22, 1999]




