# § 431.462   Definitions.

The following definitions are applicable to this subpart, including appendices A, B, and C. In cases where definitions reference design intent, DOE will consider marketing materials, labels and certifications, and equipment design to determine design intent.




*Adaptive pressure control* means a pressure control that senses the head requirements in the system in which it is installed and adjusts the pump control curve accordingly.


*Bare pump* means a pump excluding mechanical equipment, driver, and controls.




*Basic model* means all units of a given class of pump manufactured by one manufacturer, having the same primary energy source, and having essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics that affect energy consumption, energy efficiency, water consumption, or water efficiency; and, in addition, for pumps that are subject to the test procedures specified in § 431.464(a), the following provisions also apply:


(1) All variations in numbers of stages of bare RSV and ST pumps must be considered a single basic model;


(2) Pump models for which the bare pump differs in impeller diameter and/or impeller trim, may be considered a single basic model; and


(3) Pump models for which the bare pump differs in number of stages and/or impeller diameter and which are sold with motors (or motors and controls) of varying horsepower may only be considered a single basic model if:


(i) For ESCC, ESFM, IL, and RSV pumps, each motor offered in the basic model has a nominal full load motor efficiency rated at the Federal minimum (see the applicable table at § 431.25) or the same number of bands above the Federal minimum for each respective motor horsepower (*see* table 3 of appendix A to this subpart); or for pumps sold with inverter-only synchronous electric motors, any number of bands above the Federal minimum for each respective motor horsepower provided that the rating is based on the lowest number of bands; or


(ii) For ST pumps, each motor offered in the basic model has a full load motor efficiency at the default nominal full load submersible motor efficiency shown in table 2 of appendix A to subpart Y of this part or the same number of bands above the default nominal full load submersible motor efficiency for each respective motor horsepower (*see* table 3 of appendix A to this subpart) or for inverter-only synchronous electric motors, any number of bands above the default nominal full load submersible motor efficiency provided the rating is based on the lowest number of bands.






*Basket strainer* means a perforated or otherwise porous receptacle, mounted within a housing on the suction side of a pump, that prevents solid debris from entering a pump. The basket strainer receptacle is capable of passing spherical solids of 1 mm in diameter, and can be removed by hand or using only simple tools (*e.g.,* screwdriver, pliers, open-ended wrench).


*Best efficiency point (BEP)* means the pump hydraulic power operating point (consisting of both flow and head conditions) that results in the maximum efficiency.


*Bowl* means a casing in which the impeller rotates, and that directs flow axially to the next stage or the discharge column.






*Bowl diameter* means the maximum dimension of an imaginary straight line passing through and in the plane of the circular shape of the bowl of the bare pump that is perpendicular to the pump shaft and that intersects the outermost circular shape of the bowl of the bare pump at both of its ends.




*Circulator-less-volute* means a circulator pump distributed in commerce without a volute and for which a paired volute is also distributed in commerce. Whether a paired volute is distributed in commerce will be determined based on published data, marketing literature, and other publicly available information.


*Circulator pump* means is a pump that is either a wet rotor circulator pumps; a dry rotor, two-piece circulator pump; or a dry rotor, three-piece circulator pump. A circulator pump may be distributed in commerce with or without a volute.


*Clean water pump* means a pump that is designed for use in pumping water with a maximum non-absorbent free solid content of 0.016 pounds per cubic foot, and with a maximum dissolved solid content of 3.1 pounds per cubic foot, provided that the total gas content of the water does not exceed the saturation volume, and disregarding any additives necessary to prevent the water from freezing at a minimum of 14 °F.


*Close-coupled pump* means a pump in which the driver's bearings are designed to absorb the pump's axial load.




*Continuous control* means a control that adjusts the speed of the pump driver continuously over the driver operating speed range in response to incremental changes in the required pump flow, head, or power output.


*Control* means any device that can be used to operate the driver. Examples include, but are not limited to, continuous or non-continuous controls, schedule-based controls, on/off switches, and float switches.


*Dedicated-purpose pool pump* comprises self-priming pool filter pumps, non-self-priming pool filter pumps, waterfall pumps, pressure cleaner booster pumps, integral sand-filter pool pumps, integral-cartridge filter pool pumps, storable electric spa pumps, and rigid electric spa pumps.


*Dedicated-purpose pool pump motor total horsepower* means the product of the dedicated-purpose pool pump nominal motor horsepower and the dedicated-purpose pool pump service factor of a motor used on a dedicated-purpose pool pump based on the maximum continuous duty motor power output rating allowable for the motor's nameplate ambient rating and insulation class. (Dedicated-purpose pool pump motor total horsepower is also referred to in the industry as service factor horsepower or motor capacity.)


*Dedicated-purpose pool pump service factor* means a multiplier applied to the rated horsepower of a pump motor to indicate the percent above nameplate horsepower at which the motor can operate continuously without exceeding its allowable insulation class temperature limit.


*Designed and marketed* means that the equipment is designed to fulfill the indicated application and, when distributed in commerce, is designated and marketed for that application, with the designation on the packaging and any publicly available documents (*e.g.,* product literature, catalogs, and packaging labels).


*Driver* means the machine providing mechanical input to drive a bare pump directly or through the use of mechanical equipment. Examples include, but are not limited to, an electric motor, internal combustion engine, or gas/steam turbine.


*Dry rotor pump* means a pump in which the motor rotor is not immersed in the pumped fluid.


*Dry rotor, three-piece circulator pump* means:


(1) A single stage, rotodynamic, single-axis flow, mechanically-coupled, dry rotor pump that:


(i) Has a rated hydraulic power less than or equal to 5 hp at the best efficiency point at full impeller diameter,


(ii) Is distributed in commerce with a horizontal motor, and


(iii) Discharges the pumped liquid through a volute in a plane perpendicular to the shaft.


(2) Examples include, but are not limited to, pumps generally referred to in industry as CP3.


*Dry rotor, two-piece circulator pump* means:


(1) A single stage, rotodynamic, single-axis flow, close-coupled, dry rotor pump that:


(i) Has a rated hydraulic power less than or equal to 5 hp at best efficiency point at full impeller diameter,


(ii) Is distributed in commerce with a horizontal motor, and


(iii) Discharges the pumped liquid through a volute in a plane perpendicular to the shaft.


(2) Examples include, but are not limited to, pumps generally referred to in industry as CP2.




*End-suction close-coupled (ESCC) pump* means a close-coupled, dry rotor, end-suction pump that has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter and that is not a dedicated-purpose pool pump.








*End-suction frame mounted/own bearings (ESFM) pump* means a mechanically-coupled, dry rotor, end-suction pump that has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter and that is not a dedicated-purpose pool pump.






*End-suction pump* means a single-stage, rotodynamic pump in which the liquid enters the bare pump in a direction parallel to the impeller shaft and on the side opposite the bare pump's driver-end. The liquid is discharged in a plane perpendicular to the shaft.




*External input signal control* means a variable speed drive that adjusts the speed of the driver in response to an input signal from an external logic and/or user interface.


*Fire pump* means a pump that is compliant with NFPA 20-2016 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.463), “Standard for the Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection,” and is either:


(1) UL listed under ANSI/UL 448-2013 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.463), “Standard for Safety Centrifugal Stationary Pumps for Fire-Protection Service,” or


(2) FM Global (FM) approved under the January 2015 edition of FM Class Number 1319, “Approval Standard for Centrifugal Fire Pumps (Horizontal, End Suction Type),” (incorporated by reference, see § 431.463).


*Freeze protection control* means a pool pump control that, at a certain ambient temperature, turns on the dedicated-purpose pool pump to circulate water for a period of time to prevent the pool and water in plumbing from freezing.


*Full impeller diameter* means the maximum diameter impeller with which a given pump basic model is distributed in commerce.


*Header pump* means a circulator pump distributed in commerce without a volute and for which a paired volute is not distributed in commerce. Whether a paired volute is distributed in commerce will be determined based on published data, marketing literature, and other publicly available information.


*Horizontal motor* means a motor, for which the motor shaft position when functioning under operating conditions specified in manufacturer literature, includes a horizontal position.




*In-line (IL) pump* means a pump that is either a twin head pump or a single-stage, single-axis flow, dry rotor, rotodynamic pump that has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter, in which liquid is discharged in a plane perpendicular to the shaft. Such pumps do not include circulator pumps.








*Integral* means a part of the device that cannot be removed without compromising the device's function or destroying the physical integrity of the unit.


*Integral cartridge-filter pool pump* means a pump that requires a removable cartridge filter, installed on the suction side of the pump, for operation; and the cartridge filter cannot be bypassed.


*Integral sand-filter pool pump* means a pump distributed in commerce with a sand filter that cannot be bypassed.


*Magnet driven pump* means a pump in which the bare pump is isolated from the motor via a containment shell and torque is transmitted from the motor to the bare pump via magnetic force. The motor shaft is not physically coupled to the impeller or impeller shaft.


*Manual speed control* means a control (variable speed drive and user interface) that adjusts the speed of the driver based on manual user input.


*Mechanical equipment* means any component of a pump that transfers energy from the driver to the bare pump.




*Mechanically-coupled pump* means a pump in which bearings external to the driver are designed to absorb the pump's axial load.




*Multi-speed dedicated-purpose pool pump* means a dedicated-purpose pool pump that is capable of operating at more than two discrete, pre-determined operating speeds separated by speed increments greater than 100 rpm, where the lowest speed is less than or equal to half of the maximum operating speed and greater than zero, and must be distributed in commerce with an on-board pool pump control (*i.e.,* variable speed drive and user interface or programmable switch) that changes the speed in response to pre-programmed user preferences and allows the user to select the duration of each speed and/or the on/off times.


*Non-continuous control* means a control that adjusts the speed of a driver to one of a discrete number of non-continuous preset operating speeds, and does not respond to incremental reductions in the required pump flow, head, or power output.


*Non-self-priming pool filter pump* means a pool filter pump that is not certified under NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.463) to be self-priming and is not capable of re-priming to a vertical lift of at least 5.0 feet with a true priming time less than or equal to 10.0 minutes, when tested in accordance with section F of appendix B or C of this subpart, and is not a waterfall pump.


*On-demand circulator pump* means a circulator pump that is distributed in commerce with an integral control that:


(1) Initiates water circulation based on receiving a signal from the action of a user [of a fixture or appliance] or sensing the presence of a user of a fixture and cannot initiate water circulation based on other inputs, such as water temperature or a pre-set schedule.


(2) Automatically terminates water circulation once hot water has reached the pump or desired fixture.


(3) Does not allow the pump to operate when the temperature in the pipe exceeds 104 °F or for more than 5 minutes continuously.


*Pool filter pump* means an end suction pump that:


(1) Either:


(i) Includes an integrated basket strainer; or


(ii) Does not include an integrated basket strainer, but requires a basket strainer for operation, as stated in manufacturer literature provided with the pump; and


(2) May be distributed in commerce connected to, or packaged with, a sand filter, removable cartridge filter, or other filtration accessory, so long as the filtration accessory are connected with consumer-removable connections that allow the filtration accessory to be bypassed.


*Pool pump timer* means a pool pump control that automatically turns off a dedicated-purpose pool pump after a run-time of no longer than 10 hours.


*Pressure cleaner booster pump* means an end suction, dry rotor pump designed and marketed for pressure-side pool cleaner applications, and which may be UL listed under ANSI/UL 1081-2016 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.463).


*Pressure control* means a control (variable speed drive and integrated logic) that automatically adjusts the speed of the driver in response to pressure.


*Prime-assist pump* means a pump that:


(1) Is designed to lift liquid that originates below the centerline of the pump inlet;


(2) Requires no manual intervention to prime or re-prime from a dry-start condition; and


(3) Includes a device, such as a vacuum pump or air compressor and venturi eductor, to remove air from the suction line in order to automatically perform the prime or re-prime function at any point during the pump's operating cycle.


*Pump* means equipment designed to move liquids (which may include entrained gases, free solids, and totally dissolved solids) by physical or mechanical action and includes a bare pump and, if included by the manufacturer at the time of sale, mechanical equipment, driver, and controls.


*Radially-split, multi-stage, horizontal, diffuser casing (RSH) pump* means a horizontal, multi-stage, dry rotor, rotodynamic pump:


(1) That has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter and at the number of stages required for testing;


(2) In which liquid is discharged in a plane perpendicular to the impeller shaft;


(3) For which each stage (or bowl) consists of an impeller and diffuser; and


(4) For which no external part of such a pump is designed to be submerged in the pumped liquid.








*Radially-split, multi-stage, horizontal, end-suction diffuser casing (RSHES) pump* means a RSH pump in which the liquid enters the bare pump in a direction parallel to the impeller shaft and on the side opposite the bare pump's driver-end.




*Radially-split, multi-stage, horizontal, in-line diffuser casing (RSHIL) pump* means a single-axis flow RSH pump in which the liquid enters the pump in a plane perpendicular to the impeller shaft.




*Radially-split, multi-stage, vertical, diffuser casing (RSV) pump* means a vertically suspended, multi-stage, single-axis flow, dry rotor, rotodynamic pump:


(1) That has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter and at the number of stages required for testing;


(2) In which liquid is discharged in a plane perpendicular to the impeller shaft;


(3) For which each stage (or bowl) consists of an impeller and diffuser; and


(4) For which no external part of such a pump is designed to be submerged in the pumped liquid.




*Removable cartridge filter* means a filter component with fixed dimensions that captures and removes suspended particles from water flowing through the unit. The removable cartridge filter is not capable of passing spherical solids of 1 mm in diameter or greater, and can be removed from the filter housing by hand or using only simple tools (*e.g.,* screwdrivers, pliers, open-ended wrench).


*Rigid electric spa pump* means an end suction pump that does not contain an integrated basket strainer or require a basket strainer for operation as stated in manufacturer literature provided with the pump and that meets the following three criteria:


(1) Is assembled with four through bolts that hold the motor rear endplate, rear bearing, rotor, front bearing, front endplate, and the bare pump together as an integral unit;


(2) Is constructed with buttress threads at the inlet and discharge of the bare pump; and


(3) Uses a casing or volute and connections constructed of a non-metallic material.


*Rotodynamic pump* means a pump in which energy is continuously imparted to the pumped fluid by means of a rotating impeller, propeller, or rotor.


*Sand filter* means a device designed to filter water through sand or an alternate sand-type media.


*Self-priming pool filter pump* means a pool filter pump that is certified under NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.463) to be self-priming or is capable of re-priming to a vertical lift of at least 5.0 feet with a true priming time less than or equal to 10.0 minutes, when tested in accordance with section F of appendix B or C of this subpart, and is not a waterfall pump.


*Self-priming pump* means a pump that either is a self-priming pool filter pump or a pump that:


(1) Is designed to lift liquid that originates below the centerline of the pump inlet;


(2) Contains at least one internal recirculation passage; and


(3) Requires a manual filling of the pump casing prior to initial start-up, but is able to re-prime after the initial start-up without the use of external vacuum sources, manual filling, or a foot valve.


*Single axis flow pump* means a pump in which the liquid inlet of the bare pump is on the same axis as the liquid discharge of the bare pump.


*Single-speed dedicated-purpose pool pump* means a dedicated-purpose pool pump that is capable of operating at only one speed.




*Small vertical in-line (SVIL) pump* means a small vertical twin-head pump or a single stage, single-axis flow, dry rotor, rotodynamic pump that:


(1) Has a shaft input power less than 1 horsepower at its BEP at full impeller diameter; and


(2) In which liquid is discharged in a plane perpendicular to the shaft; and


(3) Is not a circulator pump.




*Small vertical twin-head pump* means a dry rotor, single-axis flow, rotodynamic pump that contains two equivalent impeller assemblies, each of which:


(1) Contains an impeller, impeller shaft (or motor shaft in the case of close-coupled pumps), shaft seal or packing, driver (if present), and mechanical equipment (if present); and


(2) Has a shaft input power that is less than or equal to 1 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter; and


(3) Has the same primary energy source (if sold with a driver) and the same electrical, physical, and functional characteristics that affect energy consumption or energy efficiency; and


(4) Is mounted in its own volute; and


(5) Discharges liquid through its volute and the common discharge in a plane perpendicular to the impeller shaft.




*Storable electric spa pump* means a pump that is distributed in commerce with one or more of the following:


(1) An integral heater; and


(2) An integral air pump.


*Submersible pump* means a pump that is designed to be operated with the motor and bare pump fully submerged in the pumped liquid.




*Submersible turbine (ST) pump* means a single-stage or multi-stage, dry rotor, rotodynamic pump that is designed to be operated with the motor and stage(s) fully submerged in the pumped liquid; that has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter and at the number of stages required for testing; and in which each stage of this pump consists of an impeller and diffuser, and liquid enters and exits each stage of the bare pump in a direction parallel to the impeller shaft.




*Temperature control* means a control (variable speed drive and integrated logic) that automatically adjusts the speed of the driver continuously over the driver operating speed range in response to temperature.


*Twin head pump* means a dry rotor, single-axis flow, rotodynamic pump that contains two impeller assemblies, which both share a common casing, inlet, and discharge, and each of which


(1) Contains an impeller, impeller shaft (or motor shaft in the case of close-coupled pumps), shaft seal or packing, driver (if present), and mechanical equipment (if present);


(2) Has a shaft input power that is greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at best efficiency point (BEP) and full impeller diameter;


(3) Has the same primary energy source (if sold with a driver) and the same electrical, physical, and functional characteristics that affect energy consumption or energy efficiency;


(4) Is mounted in its own volute; and


(5) Discharges liquid through its volute and the common discharge in a plane perpendicular to the impeller shaft.


*Two-speed dedicated-purpose pool pump* means a dedicated-purpose pool pump that is capable of operating at only two different pre-determined operating speeds, where the low operating speed is less than or equal to half of the maximum operating speed and greater than zero, and must be distributed in commerce either:


(1) With a pool pump control (*e.g.,* variable speed drive and user interface or switch) that is capable of changing the speed in response to user preferences; or


(2) Without a pool pump control that has the capability to change speed in response to user preferences, but is unable to operate without the presence of such a pool pump control.


*Variable-speed dedicated-purpose pool pump* means a dedicated-purpose pool pump that is capable of operating at a variety of user-determined speeds, where all the speeds are separated by at most 100 rpm increments over the operating range and the lowest operating speed is less than or equal to one-third of the maximum operating speed and greater than zero. Such a pump must include a variable speed drive and be distributed in commerce either:


(1) With a user interface that changes the speed in response to pre-programmed user preferences and allows the user to select the duration of each speed and/or the on/off times; or


(2) Without a user interface that changes the speed in response to pre-programmed user preferences and allows the user to select the duration of each speed and/or the on/off times, but is unable to operate without the presence of a user interface.


*Variable speed drive* means equipment capable of varying the speed of the motor.


*Vertical turbine (VT) pump* means a vertically suspended, single-stage or multi-stage, dry rotor, single inlet, rotodynamic pump:


(1) That has a shaft input power greater than or equal to 1 hp and less than or equal to 200 hp at BEP and full impeller diameter and at the number of stages required for testing;


(2) For which the pump driver is not designed to be submerged in the pumped liquid;


(3) That has a single pressure containing boundary (*i.e.,* is single casing), which may consist of, but is not limited, to bowls, columns, and discharge heads; and


(4) That discharges liquid through the same casing in which the impeller shaft is contained.






*Waterfall pump* means a pool filter pump with a certified maximum head less than or equal to 30.0 feet, and a maximum speed less than or equal to 1,800 rpm.


*Wet rotor circulator pump* means a single stage, rotodynamic, close-coupled, wet rotor pump. Examples include, but are not limited to, pumps generally referred to in industry as CP1.



---

[N] [81 FR 4145, Jan. 25, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 5742, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 36920, Aug. 7, 2017; 87 FR 57298, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 17975, Mar. 24, 2023]




