# ยง 419.45   Payment and copayment reduction for devices replaced without cost or when full or partial credit is received.

(a) *General rule.* CMS reduces the amount of payment for an implanted device made under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system in accordance with ยง 419.66 for which CMS determines that a significant portion of the payment is attributable to the cost of an implanted device, when one of the following situations occur:


(1) The device is replaced without cost to the provider or the beneficiary;


(2) The provider receives full credit for the cost of a replaced device; or


(3) The provider receives partial credit for the cost of a replaced device but only where the amount of the device credit is greater than or equal to 50 percent of the cost of the new replacement device being implanted.


(b) *Amount of reduction to the APC payment.* 

(1) The amount of the reduction to the APC payment made under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section is calculated as the lesser of the device offset amount that would be applied if the device implanted during a procedure assigned to the APC had transitional pass-through status under ยง 419.66 or the amount of the credit described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The amount of the reduction to the APC payment made under paragraph (a)(3) of this section is calculated as the lesser of the device offset amount that would be applied if the device implanted during a procedure assigned to the APC had transitional pass-through status under ยง 419.66 or the amount of the credit described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(c) *Amount of beneficiary copayment.* The beneficiary copayment is calculated based on the APC payment after application of the reduction under paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [71 FR 68228, Nov. 24, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 66933, Nov. 27, 2007; 85 FR 86302, Dec. 29, 2020]




