# § 53.156   Extension of time for paying tax shown on return.

(a) *In general.* (1) Ordinarily, no extensions of time will be granted for payment of any tax imposed by Chapter 32 of the Code, and shown or required to be shown on any return. However, if because of temporary conditions beyond the taxpayer's control a taxpayer believes an extension of time for payment is justified, the taxpayer may apply for an extension filing TTB Form 5600.38. The period of an extension shall not be in excess of 6 months from the date fixed for payment of the tax, except that if the taxpayer is abroad the period of the extension may be in excess of 6 months.


(2) The granting of an extension of time for filing a return does not operate to extend the time for the payment of the tax or any part of the tax unless so specified in the extension. See § 53.155.


(b) *Undue hardship required for extension.* An extension of the time for payment shall be granted only upon a satisfactory showing that payment on the due date of the amount with respect to which the extension is desired will result in an undue hardship. The extension will not be granted upon a general statement of hardship. The term “undue hardship” means more than an inconvenience to the taxpayer. It must appear that substantial financial loss, for example, loss due to the sale of property at a sacrifice price, will result to the taxpayer from making payment on the due date of the amount with respect to which the extension is desired. If a market exists, the sale of property at the current market price is not ordinarily considered as resulting in an undue hardship.


(c) *Application for extension.* An application for an extension of time for payment of the tax shown or required to be shown on any return shall be made on TTB Form 5600.38, Application for Extension of Time for Payment of Tax, and shall be accompanied by evidence showing the undue hardship that would result to the taxpayer if the extension were refused. The application shall also be accompanied by a statement of the assets and liabilities of the taxpayer and an itemized statement showing all receipts and disbursements for each of the 3 months immediately preceding the due date of the amount to which the application relates. The application, with supporting documents, must be filed on or before the date prescribed for payment of the amount with respect to which the extension is desired. The application will be examined, and within 30 days, if possible, will be denied, granted, or tentatively granted subject to certain conditions of which the taxpayer will be notified. If an additional extension is desired, the request for it must be made on or before the expiration of the period for which the prior extension is granted.


(d) *Payment pursuant to extension.* If an extension of time for payment is granted, the payment shall be made on or before the expiration of the period of the extension without the necessity of notice and demand. The granting of an extension of time for payment of the tax does not relieve the taxpayer from liability for the payment of interest on the tax during the period of the extension. See section 6601 of the Code and 26 CFR 301.6601-1.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-308, 56 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1991, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31084, July 9, 1991; T.D. ATF-447, 66 FR 19088, Apr. 13, 2001]




