# § 308.201   Directives to take prompt corrective action.

(a) *Notice of intent to issue directive*—(1) *In general.* The FDIC shall provide an undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institution prior written notice of the FDIC's intention to issue a directive requiring such FDIC-supervised institution to take actions or to follow proscriptions described in section 38 that are within the FDIC's discretion to require or impose under section 38 of the FDI Act, including section 38 (e)(5), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5). The FDIC-supervised institution shall have such time to respond to a proposed directive as provided by the FDIC under paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Immediate issuance of final directive.* If the FDIC finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act, the FDIC may, without providing the notice prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, issue a directive requiring an FDIC-supervised institution immediately to take actions or to follow proscriptions described in section 38 that are within the FDIC's discretion to require or impose under section 38 of the FDI Act, including section 38 (e)(5), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5). An FDIC-supervised institution that is subject to such an immediately effective directive may submit a written appeal of the directive to the FDIC. Such an appeal must be received by the FDIC within 14 calendar days of the issuance of the directive, unless the FDIC permits a longer period. The FDIC shall consider any such appeal, if filed in a timely matter, within 60 days of receiving the appeal. During such period of review, the directive shall remain in effect unless the FDIC, in its sole discretion, stays the effectiveness of the directive.


(b) *Contents of notice.* A notice of intention to issue a directive shall include:


(1) A statement of the FDIC-supervised institution's capital measures and capital levels;


(2) A description of the restrictions, prohibitions, or affirmative actions that the FDIC proposes to impose or require;


(3) The proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would be effective or the proposed date for completion of such affirmative actions; and


(4) The date by which the FDIC-supervised institution subject to the directive may file with the FDIC a written response to the notice.


(c) *Response to notice*—(1) *Time for response.* An FDIC-supervised institution may file a written response to a notice of intent to issue a directive within the time period set by the FDIC. The date shall be at least 14 calendar days from the date of the notice unless the FDIC determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the FDIC-supervised institution or other relevant circumstances.


(2) *Content of response.* The response should include:


(i) An explanation why the action proposed by the FDIC is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under section 38;


(ii) Any recommended modification of the proposed directive; and


(iii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the FDIC-supervised institution regarding the proposed directive.


(d) *FDIC consideration of response.* After considering the response, the FDIC may:


(1) Issue the directive as proposed or in modified form;


(2) Determine not to issue the directive and so notify the FDIC-supervised institution; or


(3) Seek additional information or clarification of the response from the FDIC-supervised institution or any other relevant source.


(e) *Failure to file response.* Failure by an FDIC-supervised institution to file with the FDIC, within the specified time period, a written response to a proposed directive shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the issuance of the directive.


(f) *Request for modification or rescission of directive.* Any FDIC-supervised institution that is subject to a directive under this subpart may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the FDIC reconsider the terms of the directive and may propose that the directive be rescinded or modified. Unless otherwise ordered by the FDIC, the directive shall continue in place while such request is pending before the FDIC.




