# § 110.159   Annapolis Harbor, MD.

(a) *The Anchorage Grounds*—(1) *Naval Anchorage for Deep Draft Vessels.* In the Chesapeake Bay, bounded on the north by latitude 38°58′00″; on the east by a line bearing 203° from latitude 38°58′00″, longitude 76°24′00″; on the south by latitude 38°56′30″; and on the west by a line bearing 139° from Greenbury Point Shoal Light. This anchorage is reserved for deep draft naval vessels. Berths in the area will be assigned on application to the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy. 


(2) *Middle Ground Anchorage.* Beginning at a point in the Severn River 139°, 620 yards from Triton Light (located at the intersection of the northeast and southeast seawall of the Naval Academy grounds); thence easterly to a point 112°30′, 970 yards from Triton Light; thence southeasterly to a point 274°, 1,045 yards from the radio tower at the tip of Greenbury Point; thence south-southeasterly to a point 233°30′, 925 yards from the radio tower at the tip of Greenbury Point; thence west to a point 295°, 1,015 yards from Greenbury Point Shoal Light: thence northwesterly to the point of beginning.


(3) *South Anchorage.* In the Severn River, beginning at a point on the shoreline at Horn Point, Eastport, 168°, 1,190 yards from Triton Light; thence east to a point 294°, 1,075 yards from Greenbury Point Shoal Light; thence northwest to a point 143°, 595 yards from Triton Light; thence westerly to a point 209°, 700 yards from Triton Light; thence 180° to a point on the shoreline at Eastport. No vessel shall anchor within 100 feet of any wharf, marine railway, or other structure without the permission of the owner thereof. 


(4) *Naval Anchorage for Small Craft.* In the Severn River, beginning at a point 80 feet off the southeast seawall of the Naval Academy bearing 132° from Triton Light; thence easterly to a point 072°30′, 285 yards from Triton Light; thence southeasterly to a point 109°, 785 yards from Triton Light; thence westerly to a point 211°, 537 yards from Triton Light; thence northwesterly to a point 45 yards off the southeast seawall of the Naval Academy bearing 214°, 535 yards from Triton Light; thence northeasterly to the point of beginning. Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in this area without the permission of the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy. Anchorages will be assigned upon request to the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy.


(5) *Spa Creek Anchorage.* In Spa Creek, those waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in the area to the north and east of the Annapolis Channel bounded on the east by Greenbury Point; on the south by a line bearing 270° from the southern tip of Greenbury Point; on the west by the Annapolis Channel; on the north by the southern boundry of the cable area and the shoreline of the Government reservation and Carr Creek. 


(2) Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in Annapolis Harbor to the westward of the dredged channel and northward of the southern boundry of the South Anchorage outside of the established anchorage areas, except in Spa Creek and the area to the southwestward of the Naval anchorage for small craft. No vessel shall be so anchored that any part of the vessel extends at any time within this area. Any vessel anchoring, under great emergency, within this area shall be placed as close to an anchorage area as practicable, and shall move away immediately after the emergency ceases. 


(3) No vessel shall be anchored in the cable and pipeline area, lying between the Naval Academy and the Naval Ship Research and Development Laboratory and having the following limits: Southeastern limit, from Triton Light 072° to white “Cable Crossing” sign at the Naval Ship Research and Development Laboratory; northwestern limit, a line bearing 054° from the Capitol Dome. 


(4) Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored, without permission of the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy, in the Naval Academy Drill area described as follows: 


That portion of the Severn River lying to the northeastward of the Naval Academy, bounded on the north by the State Highway Bridge and on the south by the northern limit of the cable and pipeline area, excluding that area off the eastern shoreline enclosed by a line bearing approximately 131° from the eastern abutment of the State Highway Bridge to the vicinity of Ferry Point. This drill area also includes the lower part of Dorseys Creek below the Naval Academy Drawbridge. Requests to anchor in this drill area shall be made to the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy. 


(5) The restrictions in this section do not apply to the anchoring or marking by buoys of apparatus used for the purpose of taking seafood, except within the cable or pipeline area described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(6) The regulations in paragraph (b) of this section shall be enforced by the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy, and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-97, 34 FR 9677, June 20, 1969, as amended by CGD 05-81-15R, 47 FR 29658, 29659, July 8, 1982; CGD05-93-103, 60 FR 27696, May 25, 1995; 60 FR 45776, Sept. 1, 1995]




