# ยง 192.3   Definitions.

*Agent.* Real estate agency, manager, landlord, or owner of a housing facility doing business with DoD personnel or a housing referral service (HRS).


*Area outside the United States.* Foreign countries where DoD personnel reside. 


*Commander.* The military or civilian head of any installation, organization, or agency of the Department of Defense who is assigned responsibility for the off-base housing program. 


*Commuting area.* That area which is within a 1 hour commute by a privately-owned vehicle during rush hour and no farther than 30 miles from the installation, or within other limits to satisfy mission requirements. 


*Complainant.* A member of the Armed Forces (or authorized dependent designated by the member) or a civilian employee of the Department of Defense (or authorized dependent designated by the civilian employee) who submits a complaint of discrimination under this part. 


*Discrimination.* An act, policy, or procedure that arbitrarily denies equal treatment in housing because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status to an individual or group of individuals. 


*DoD personnel.* (1) Members of the Armed Forces (and their dependents) authorized to live off-base. 


(2) DoD civilian employees (and their dependents) who are transferred from one place of residence to another because of job requirements or recruited for job opportunities away from their current place of residence in the United States, and all DoD U.S. citizen appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund civilian employees and their dependents outside the United States. 


*Familial Status.* One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such an individual or individuals; or the designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with the written permission of such parent or other person. 


*Listed facility.* A suitable housing facility (not on restrictive sanction) listed with the HRS as available for occupancy by DoD personnel. 


*Minorities.* All persons classified as black (not of Hispanic origin), Hispanic, Asian or Pacific Islander, or American Indian or Alaskan native. 


*Relief for the complainant.* Action taken by a commander for the benefit of a complainant. 


*Restrictive sanctions.* Actions taken by a commander to prevent military personnel from moving to, or entering into a rental, lease, or purchase arrangement with, a housing facility, when its agent has been found to have discriminated against DoD personnel. Restrictive sanctions are effective against the agent and the facility. 


*Survey.* The procedure by which the HRS identifies housing resources to ascertain the availability of housing facilities for occupancy by DoD personnel. 


*Verifiers.* Volunteers used by the commander during the course of a housing discrimination investigation to determine if, in fact, housing discrimination is being practiced by an agent, as alleged. Verifiers are not required to be prospective tenants. 




