# ยง 1214.50   Budget and expenses.

(a) Within 60 days after assessments are due to the Board, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal period covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this part. Each budget shall include:


(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;


(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data or at least one preceding year, except for the initial budget;


(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and


(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year, except for the initial budget.


(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this part.


(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another.


(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this part. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.


(e) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any such funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended for startup costs and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.


(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects approved by the Secretary. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.


(g) In accordance with ยง 1214.54, the Board shall deposit funds in a refund escrow account and shall not use such funds for expenses, except as provided for in that section.


(h) The Board may also receive funds provided through the Department's Foreign Agricultural Service or from other sources, with the approval of the Secretary, for authorized activities.


(i) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, enforcement, and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.


(j) For fiscal years beginning 3 or more years after the date of the establishment of the Board, the Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in a fiscal year an amount that exceeds 10 percent of the assessment and other income received by the Board. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (i) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.


(k) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established: *Provided:* That, the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget of expenses. Subject to approval by the Secretary, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.


(l) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this section in:


(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;


(2) General obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State;


(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System; or


(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States.




