# ยง 18.12   Effect on other regulations, forms and instructions.

(a) *Effect on other regulations.* All regulations, orders, or like directions issued before the effective date of this part by any officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs which impose requirements designed to prohibit any discrimination against individuals on the grounds of race, color or national origin under any program to which this part applies, and which authorize the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance to any applicant for or recipient of such assistance for failure to comply with such requirements, are hereby superseded to the extent that such discrimination is prohibited by this part, except that nothing in this part shall be deemed to relieve any person of any obligation assumed or imposed under any such superseded regulation, order, instruction, or like direction prior to the effective date of this part. Nothing in this part, however, shall be deemed to supersede any of the following (including future amendments thereof):


(1) Executive Orders 10925 (3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 448), 11114 (3 CFR, 1959-1963, p. 774), and 11246 (3 CFR, 1965 Supp., p. 167) and regulations issued thereunder, or


(2) Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 652) and regulations issued thereunder, or any other orders, regulations or instructions, insofar as such orders, regulations, or instructions prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, color or national origin in any program or situation to which this part is inapplicable, or prohibit discrimination on any other ground. 


(b) *Forms and instructions.* Each responsible agency officials shall issue and promptly make available to interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this part as applied to programs to which this part applies and for which he is responsible. 


(c) *Supervision and coordination.* The Secretary may from time to time assign to officials of the Department of Veterans Affairs or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of Title VI of the Act and this part (other than responsibility for final decision as provided in ยง 18.10) including the achievement of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the Department of Veterans Affairs and within the executive branch of the Government in the application of Title VI and this part to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this paragraph shall have the same effect as though such action has been taken by the responsible official of this Agency. 



---

[N] [29 FR 19301, Dec. 31, 1964, as amended at 38 FR 17967, July 5, 1973. Redesignated at 45 FR 63268, Sept. 24, 1980; 68 FR 51369, Aug. 26, 2003] 




