# § 98.187   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records of the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable to the smelting furnaces at your facility. 

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure combined process and combustion CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements in § 98.183(a) or (b)(1), then you must retain the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37 and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.


(1) Monthly smelting furnace production quantity for each lead product (tons).


(2) Number of smelting furnace operating hours each month.


(3) Number of smelting furnace operating hours in calendar year.


(b) If the carbon mass balance procedure is used to determine process CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements in § 98.183(b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii), then you must retain under this subpart the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.


(1) Monthly smelting furnace production quantity for each lead product (tons).


(2) Number of smelting furnace operating hours each month.


(3) Number of smelting furnace operating hours in calendar year.


(4) Monthly material quantity consumed, used, or produced for each material included for the calculations of annual process CO_2_ emissions using Equation R-1 of this subpart (tons).


(5) Average carbon content determined and records of the supplier provided information or analyses used for the determination for each material included for the calculations of annual process CO_2_ emissions using Equation R-1 of this subpart.


(c) You must keep records that include a detailed explanation of how company records of measurements are used to estimate the carbon input to each smelting furnace, including documentation of any materials excluded from Equation R-1 of this subpart that contribute less than 1 percent of the total carbon into or out of the process. You also must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of materials fed, charged, or placed in an smelting furnace including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.


(d) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) Annual mass of lead ore charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1 of § 98.183).


(2) Carbon content of the lead ore per furnace, from the carbon analysis results (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).


(3) Annual mass of lead scrap charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).


(4) Carbon content of the lead scrap per furnace, from the carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).


(5) Annual mass of flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite) charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).


(6) Carbon content of the flux materials per furnace, from the carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).


(7) Annual mass of carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).


(8) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials per furnace, from the carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).


(9) Annual mass of each other material containing carbon, other than fuel, fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into the smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).


(10) Carbon content of each other material, from the carbon analysis results per furnace (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63792, Oct. 24, 2014]




