# ยง 161.19   Benefits for former spouses.

(a) *20/20/20 former spouses.* Unremarried former spouses of a uniformed services member or retired member, married to the member or retired member for a period of at least 20 years, during which period the member or retired member performed at least 20 years of service that is creditable in determining the member's or retired member's eligibility for retired or retainer pay, or equivalent pay pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408 and 1072(2)(F), and the period of the marriage and the service overlapped by at least 20 years are eligible for benefits as shown in Tables 24 and 25 to this subpart. The benefit eligibility period begins on qualifying date of divorce from the uniformed services member.


(1) *20/20/20 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60.* 20/20/20 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60 are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 24 to this subpart.


(2) *20/20/20 former spouses of a National Guard, Reserve member, or Retired Reserve member under age 60.* (i) In the case of former spouses of National Guard, Reserve, or Retired Reserve members or former members who are entitled to retired pay at age 60, but have not yet reached age 60, the former spouse is only entitled to commissary, MWR, and exchange benefits as shown in Table 25 to this subpart. When the Retired Reserve member or former member attains or would have attained, age 60, the former spouse will be entitled to benefits as shown in Table 24 to this subpart.


(ii) In the case of former spouses of National Guard members or Reserve members ordered to active duty, or Retired Reserve members under age 60 recalled to active duty, they continue to receive benefits as shown in Table 25 to this subpart if the orders are for a period of 30 days or less. If the National Guard member, Reserve member, or recalled Retired Reserve member is on active duty orders in excess of 30 days, the former spouse will receive benefits as shown in Table 24 to this subpart.


(b) *20/20/15 former spouses.* Unremarried former spouses described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with the period of overlap of marriage and the member's creditable service at least 15 years, but less than 20 years, are not eligible for the commissary, MWR, or exchange benefits.


(1) *20/20/15 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60.* 20/20/15 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60 are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 26 to this subpart.


(2) *20/20/15 former spouses of a Retired Reserve member under age 60.* (i) In the case of former spouses of Retired Reserve members or former members who are entitled to retired pay at age 60, but have not yet reached age 60, the former spouse has no entitlement prior to the Retired Reserve member or former member reaching age 60. The benefit eligible period is 1 year from the date of divorce. If any period of eligibility extends beyond the Retired Reserve or former member's 60th birthday then the former spouse will receive benefits as shown in Table 26 to this subpart for that period.


(ii) In the case of former spouses of Reserve members or Retired Reserve members under age 60 recalled to active duty on orders for a period of 30 days or less they are not entitled to any benefits as shown in Table 27 to this subpart. If the Reserve member or recalled Retired Reserve member is on active duty orders in excess of 30 days, the former spouse will receive benefits as shown in Table 26 to this subpart if they are within 1 year from the date of divorce from the uniformed service member.


(c) *10/20/10 former spouses.* Unremarried former spouses of a member or retired member, married to the member or retired member for a period of at least 10 years to a member or retired member who performed at least 20 years of service that is creditable in determining the member's or retired member's eligibility for retired or retainer pay, when the period of overlap of marriage and the member's creditable service was at least 10 years and the former spouse is in receipt of an annuity as a result of the member being separated from the service due to misconduct involving dependent abuse pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408(h), are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 28 to this subpart.


