# § 416.1436   Time, place, and manner of appearance for a hearing before an administrative law judge.

(a) * General.* We set the time and manner(s) of appearance for any hearing. We will set the place of a hearing when we schedule you and any other parties to the hearing to appear in person or by agency video. We may change the time, manner(s) of appearance, or place, if it is necessary. After sending you reasonable notice of the proposed action, the administrative law judge may adjourn or postpone the hearing or reopen it to receive additional evidence any time before the administrative law judge notifies you of a hearing decision.




(b) *Place of hearing.* If we set the place of the hearing, it can be in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands. The “place” of the hearing is the hearing office or other site(s) at which you and any other parties to the hearing are located when you make your appearance(s) before the administrative law judge by agency video or in person. A party to a hearing may only appear from the geographic areas, noted in this subsection, in which we hold hearings.




(c) *Determining manner of appearance to schedule.* We will schedule you or any other party to the hearing to appear by audio, agency video, online video, or in person. We may schedule you to appear by online video only if you agree to appear in that manner.


(1) When we determine your manner of appearance at the hearing, we consider the following factors:


(i) Which manner of appearance would be the most efficient for conducting the hearing; and


(ii) Any facts in your particular case that provide a good reason to schedule your appearance by audio, agency video, online video, or in person.


(2) We will generally direct any person we call as a witness, other than you or any other party to the hearing, to appear by audio, by agency video, or by online video. Witnesses include medical experts and vocational experts. Witnesses you call will appear at the hearing pursuant to § 416.1450(e). If they are unable to appear with you in the same manner as you, we will generally direct them to appear by agency video or by audio. We will consider directing witnesses to appear in person only when:


(i) A witness is unable to appear by other available manners of appearance;


(ii) We determine that an alternate manner of appearance would be less efficient than conducting the appearance in person; or


(iii) We find that there are facts in your particular case that provide a good reason to schedule this individual's appearance in person.


(3) We follow the procedures set forth in § 416.1437 to ensure the safety of the public and our employees in our hearing process.




(d) *Objecting to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both.* Prior to scheduling your hearing, we will notify you that we may schedule you to appear by audio or by agency video, or, if you agree, by online video. If you object to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both, you must notify us in writing within 30 days after the date you receive the notice. If you only object to appearing by audio, we may schedule you to appear in person, by agency video, or, if you agree, by online video. Similarly, if you only object to appearing by agency video, we may schedule you to appear in person, by audio, or, if you agree, by online video. If you object to appearing by both audio and agency video, and your residence does not change while your request for hearing is pending, we will schedule you to appear before the administrative law judge in person or, if you agree, by online video.


(1) If you notify us that you object to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both, more than 30 days after the date you receive our notice, we will extend the time period if you show you had good cause for missing the deadline. To determine whether good cause exists for extending the deadline, we use the standards explained in § 416.1411.


(2) Notwithstanding any objections you may have to appearing by audio and subject to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, we will schedule you or any other party to the hearing to appear by audio when we cannot schedule you to appear by agency video or by online video and extraordinary circumstances prevent you from appearing in person. For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).


(3) Notwithstanding any objections you may have to appearing by audio, if you are incarcerated and an appearance by agency video and online video is not available, we will schedule you to appear by audio, unless we find that there are facts in your particular case that provide a good reason to schedule you to appear in person, if allowed by the place of confinement, or by agency video, online video, or in person upon your release. For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).


(4) Notwithstanding any objections you may have to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both, if you change your residence while your request for hearing is pending, we will determine how you will appear, including by audio or by agency video, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. For us to consider your change of residence when we schedule your hearing, you must submit evidence verifying your new residence. For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).


(5) Notwithstanding any objection you may have to appearing by audio, we will schedule you or any other party to the hearing to appear by audio in the circumstances provided in § 416.1437(b)(2)(ii) and (c). For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).




(e) *Time period to agree to an appearance by online video.* Prior to scheduling your hearing, we will notify you that we may schedule you to appear by online video if you agree to appear in that manner. To agree to appear by online video, you must notify us in writing within 30 days after the date you receive the notice. If you notify us that you agree to appearing by online video more than 30 days after the date you receive our notice, we will extend the time period if you show you had good cause for missing the deadline. To determine whether good cause exists for extending the deadline, we use the standards explained in § 416.1411. You may withdraw your agreement any time before the start of your hearing.








(f) *Objecting to the time or place of the hearing.* (1) If you wish to object to the time or place of the hearing, you must:


(i) Notify us in writing at the earliest possible opportunity, but not later than 5 days before the date set for the hearing or 30 days after receiving notice of the hearing, whichever is earlier; and


(ii) State the reason(s) for your objection and state the time or place you want the hearing to be held. If the administrative law judge finds you have good cause, as determined under paragraph (e) of this section, we will change the time or place of the hearing.


(2) If you notify us that you object to the time or place of hearing less than 5 days before the date set for the hearing or, if earlier, more than 30 days after receiving notice of the hearing, we will consider this objection only if you show you had good cause for missing the deadline. To determine whether good cause exists for missing this deadline, we use the standards explained in § 416.1411.


(g) *Good cause for changing the time or place.* The administrative law judge will determine whether good cause exists for changing the time or place of your scheduled hearing. If the administrative law judge finds that good cause exists, we will set the time or place of the new hearing. A finding that good cause exists to reschedule the time or place of your hearing will generally not change the assignment of the administrative law judge or how you or another party will appear at the hearing, unless we determine a change will promote efficiency in our hearing process.


(1) The administrative law judge will find good cause to change the time or place of your hearing if he or she determines that, based on the evidence:


(i) A serious physical or mental condition or incapacitating injury makes it impossible for you or your representative to travel to the hearing, or a death in the family occurs; or


(ii) Severe weather conditions make it impossible for you or your representative to travel to the hearing.


(2) In determining whether good cause exists in circumstances other than those set out in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the administrative law judge will consider your reason(s) for requesting the change, the facts supporting it, and the impact of the proposed change on the efficient administration of the hearing process. Factors affecting the impact of the change include, but are not limited to, the effect on the processing of other scheduled hearings, delays that might occur in rescheduling your hearing, and whether we previously granted you any changes in the time or place of your hearing. Examples of such other circumstances that you might give for requesting a change in the time or place of the hearing include, but are not limited to, the following:


(i) You unsuccessfully attempted to obtain a representative and need additional time to secure representation;


(ii) Your representative was appointed within 30 days of the scheduled hearing and needs additional time to prepare for the hearing;


(iii) Your representative has a prior commitment to be in court or at another administrative hearing on the date scheduled for the hearing;


(iv) A witness who will testify to facts material to your case would be unavailable to attend the scheduled hearing and the evidence cannot be otherwise obtained;


(v) Transportation is not readily available for you to travel to the hearing; or


(vi) You are unrepresented, and you are unable to respond to the notice of hearing because of any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have.



---

[N] [84 FR 69307, Dec. 18, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 68362, Aug. 26, 2024]






