# 511.204   Contract clauses.

(a) *Specifications and drawings.* Insert the clause at 552.211-72, Reference to Specifications in Drawings, in solicitations and contracts that contain military or other drawings.


(b) *Clauses for supply contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.* When the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, insert—


(1) The clause at 552.211-73, Marking, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(2) The clause at 552.211-75, Preservation, Packaging, and Packing, in solicitations and contracts for supplies. The contracting officer may also include the clause in contracts estimated to be at or below the simplified acquisition threshold when appropriate. Use the clause with its Alternate I in solicitations and contracts for all Federal Supply Schedule contracts.


(3) A clause substantially the same as the clause at 552.211-76, Charges for Packaging, Packing, and Marking, in solicitations and contracts for supplies to be delivered to GSA distribution centers.


(4) The clause at 552.211-85, Consistent Pack and Package Requirements, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(5) The clause at 552.211-86, Maximum Weight Per Shipping Container, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(6) The clause at 552.211-87, Export Packing, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(7) The clause at 552.211-88, Vehicle Export Preparation, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(8) The clause at 552.211-89, Non-Manufactured Wood Packaging Material for Export, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities overseas.


(9) The clause at 552.211-90, Small Parts, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(10) The clause at 552.211-91, Vehicle Decals, Stickers, and Data Plates, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to both civilian and military activities.


(11) The clause at 552.211-92, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) using Passive Tags, in solicitations and contracts for supplies when deliveries may be made to military activities.


(c) *Supply contracts.* Insert the clause at 552.211-77, Packing List, in solicitations and contracts for supplies, including purchases over the micro-purchase threshold. Use the clause with its Alternate I in solicitations and contracts for all Federal Supply Schedule contracts.



---

[N] [86 FR 55518, Oct. 6, 2021]




