# § 3.31   Sanitation.

(a) *Cleaning and sanitation of primary enclosures.* (1) Primary enclosures shall be cleaned and sanitized often enough to prevent an accumulation of excreta or debris: *Provided, however,* That such enclosures shall be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks in the manner provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(2) In the event a primary enclosure becomes soiled or wet to a degree that might be harmful or uncomfortable to the animals therein due to leakage of the watering system, discharges from dead or dying animals, spoiled perishable foods, or moisture condensation, the guinea pigs or hamsters shall be transferred to clean primary enclosures. 


(3) Prior to the introduction of guinea pigs or hamsters into empty primary enclosures previously occupied, such enclosures shall be sanitized in the manner provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(4) Primary enclosures for guinea pigs or hamsters shall be sanitized by washing them with hot water (180 °F.) and soap or detergent as in a mechanical cage washer, or by washing all soiled surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a safe and effective disinfectant, or by cleaning all soiled surfaces with live steam. 


(b) *Housekeeping.* Premises (buildings and grounds) shall be kept clean and in good repair in order to protect the animals from injury and to facilitate the prescribed husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Premises shall remain free of accumulations of trash. 


(c) *Pest control.* An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained. 




