# ยง 308.502   Basis for civil penalties and assessments.

(a) *Claims.* (1) A person who makes a false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim to the FDIC is subject to a civil penalty of up to $5,000 per claim. A claim is false, fictitious, or fraudulent if the person making the claim knows, or has reason to know, that: 


(i) The claim is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or 


(ii) The claim includes, or is supported by, a written statement that asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious or fraudulent; or 


(iii) The claim includes, or is supported by, a written statement that: 


(A) Omits a material fact; and 


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of that omission; and 


(C) Is a statement in which the person making the statement has a duty to include the material fact; or 


(iv) The claim seeks payment for providing property or services that the person has not provided as claimed. 


(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim. 


(3) A claim will be considered made to the FDIC, recipient, or party when the claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any state or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the FDIC, recipient, or party. 


(4) Each claim for property, services, or money that constitutes any one of the elements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether the property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid. 


(5) If the FDIC has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim (or portion of the claim) that is determined to constitute a false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The assessment will be in lieu of damages sustained by the FDIC because of the claims. 


(6) The amount of any penalty assessed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be adjusted for inflation in accordance with ยง 308.132(d).


(7) The penalty specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is in addition to any other remedy allowable by law. 


(b) *Statements.* (1) A person who submits to the FDIC a false, fictitious or fraudulent statement is subject to a civil penalty of up to $5,000 per statement. A statement is false, fictitious or fraudulent if the person submitting the statement to the FDIC knows, or has reason to know, that: 


(i) The statement asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or 


(ii) The statement omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in the statement; and 


(iii) The statement contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement. 


(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement. 


(3) A statement will be considered made to the FDIC when the statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any state or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the FDIC. 


(4) The amount of any penalty assessed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be adjusted for inflation in accordance with ยง 308.132(d).


(5) The penalty specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is in addition to any other remedy allowable by law. 


(c) *Failure to file declaration/certification.* Where, as a prerequisite to conducting business with the FDIC, a person is required by law to file one or more declarations and/or certifications, and the person intentionally fails to file such declaration/certification, the person will be subject to the civil penalties as prescribed by this subpart. 


(d) Civil money penalties that are assessed under this subpart are subject to annual adjustments to account for inflation as required by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74, sec. 701, 129 Stat. 584) (*see also* 12 CFR 308.132(d)(17)).


(e) *Liability.* (1) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held jointly and severally liable for a civil penalty under this section. 


(2) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the FDIC has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons. 



---

[N] [66 FR 9189, Feb. 7, 2001, as amended at 81 FR 42242, June 29, 2016; 83 FR 61115, Nov. 28, 2018]




