# § 1206.101   Definitions.

(a) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


(b) *Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.


(c) *Eligible first handler* means any person, (excluding a common or contract carrier), receiving 500,000 or more pounds of mangos from producers in a calendar year and who as owner, agent, or otherwise ships or causes mangos to be shipped as specified in this Order. This definition includes those engaged in the business of buying, selling and/or offering for sale; receiving; packing; grading; marketing; or distributing mangos in commercial quantities. The term first handler includes a producer who handles or markets mangos of the producer's own production.


(d) *Eligible importer* means any person importing 500,000 or more pounds of mangos into the United States in a calendar year as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or handles mangos outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such mangos that are identified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States by the numbers 0804.50.4045, 0804.50.4055, 0804.50.6045, and 0804.50.6055 during the representative period. Importation occurs when mangos originating outside of the United States are released from custody by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced mangos immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of mangos from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection when such mangos are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.


(e) *Mangos* means all fresh fruit of *Mangifera indica L.* of the family *Anacardiaceae.*

(f) *Order* means the Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order.


(g) *Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:


(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a mango farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and


(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.


(h) *Referendum agent* or *agent* means the individual or individuals designated by the Department to conduct the referendum.


(i) *Representative period* means the period designated by the Department.


(j) *United States* or *U.S.* means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 5436, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021]




