# ยง 320.19   Election to participate.

(a) *Claimant files an appeal.* Where the claimant has filed an appeal under ยง 320.12 of this part the hearings officer shall notify the claimant's base-year employer(s) that such an appeal has been filed and shall provide the base-year employer with a statement of issues on appeal. The hearings officer shall inform the base-year employer(s) that such employer(s) shall have a right to be present at any hearing which is to be held under this part and the right to submit evidence with respect to the issues on appeal. Within 30 days of the date of such notice a base-year employer shall provide the hearings officer with a statement in writing which summarizes the evidence which such employer intends to present with respect to the issues on appeal, which indicates whether the employer wishes to be present at any hearing which may be held, and which designates who will represent the employer with respect to the appeal. An employer who fails to respond in the time prescribed shall be barred from further participation in the appeal and shall forfeit any further right to review as provided for in this part.


(b) *Base-year employer files an appeal.* Where a base-year employer files an appeal under ยง 320.12 of this part, the hearings officer shall notify the claimant that such an appeal has been filed and shall provide the claimant with a statement of issues on appeal. The hearings officer shall inform the claimant that he or she or a duly authorized representative shall have a right to be present at any hearing which is to be held under this part and the right to submit evidence with respect to the issues on appeal. Within 30 days of the date of such notice the claimant shall file with the hearings officer an election to participate in the appeal. A claimant who fails to file an election in the time prescribed shall be barred from further participation in the appeal and shall forfeit any right of review as provided for in this part.



---

[N] [56 FR 65680, Dec. 18, 1991]




