# § 721.11379   Lithium, isotope of mass 6.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as lithium, isotope of mass 6 (P-18-384, CASRN 14258-72-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, Commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process or use the chemical substance without the workplace engineering controls described in the PMN. It is a significant new use to use the chemical substance other than as a starting material for manufacture of 6-Lithium halide scintillation crystals for use in radiation detection.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N = 8.5.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 46555, Aug. 3, 2020]




