# ยง 2604.201   Public reading room facility and Web site.

(a)(1) *Location of public reading room facility.* OGE maintains a public reading room facility at its offices located at 1201 New York Avenue NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005-3917. Persons desiring to utilize the reading room facility should contact OGE, in writing or by telephone: 202-482-9300, TDD: 202-482-9293, or FAX: 202-482-9237, to arrange a time to inspect the materials available there.


(2) *Web site.* The records listed in paragraph (b) of this section that were created on or after November 1, 1996, or which OGE is otherwise able to make electronically available, along with the OGE FOIA and Public Records Guide and OGE's annual FOIA reports, are also available via OGE's Web site (*www.oge.gov*). OGE will proactively identify additional records of interest to the public and will post such records on its Web site when practicable.


(b) *Records available.* The OGE Web site contains OGE records which are required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format, including:


(1) Any final opinions, as well as orders, made in the adjudication of cases;


(2) Any statements of policy and interpretation which have been adopted by OGE and are not published in the _Federal Register_;


(3) Any administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public, and which are not exempt from disclosure under section (b) of the FOIA;


(4) Copies of records created by OGE that have been released to any person under subpart C of this part and that, because of the nature of their subject matter, OGE determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records or that have been requested three or more times; and


(5) A general index of the records referred to under ยง 2604.201(b)(4).


(c) OGE may delete from the copies of materials made available under this section any identifying details necessary to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Any such deletions will be explained in writing and the extent of such deletions will be indicated on the portion of the records that are made available or published, unless the indication would harm an interest protected by the FOIA exemption pursuant to which the deletions are made. If technically feasible, the extent of any such deletions will be indicated at the place in the records where they are made.



---

[N] [80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]




