# § 30.8   Time and place for presenting proof of filing citations and exemption legends.

The following conditions govern the time and place to present proof of filing citations, postdeparture filing citations, AES downtime filing citation, exemption, or exclusion legends. The USPPI or the authorized agent is required to deliver the proof of filing citations, postdeparture filing citations, AES downtime filing citations, exemption, or exclusion legends required in § 30.7 to the exporting carrier. See appendix B of this part for the properly formatted proof of filing citations, exemption, or exclusion legends. Failure of the USPPI or the authorized agent of either the USPPI or FPPI to comply with these requirements constitutes a violation of the regulations in this part and renders such principal party or the authorized agent subject to the penalties provided for in subpart H of this part.


(a) *Mail exports.* The proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption and/or exclusion legend for items exported by mail as required in § 30.4(b) shall be annotated on the appropriate U.S. Postal Service customs declaration form (and/or its electronic equivalent) and presented with the packages at the time of mailing. The Postal Service is required to deliver the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend prior to export.


(b) *Pipeline exports.* The proof of filing citations or exemption and exclusion legends for items being sent by pipeline shall be presented to the operator of a pipeline no later than four calendar days after the close of the month. See § 30.4(c)(2) for requirements for the filing of export information by pipeline carriers.


(c) *Exports by other methods of transportation.* For exports sent other than by mail or pipeline, the USPPI or the authorized agent is required to deliver the proof of filing citations and/or exemption and exclusion legends to the exporting carrier in accord with the time periods set forth in § 30.4(b).



---

[N] [78 FR 16378, Mar. 14, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 18391, Apr. 19, 2017; 82 FR 43843, Sept. 20, 2017]




