# § 2.27   Office of Administrative Law Judges.

(a) The following designations are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Office of Administrative Law Judges: 


(1) Administrative law judges (formerly hearing examiners) are designated pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556(b)(3) to hold hearings and perform related duties in proceedings subject to 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557, arising under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*); the Commodity Exchange Act as amended (7 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*); the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 499a *et seq.*); the Federal Seed Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1551 *et seq.*); the (Laboratory) Animal Welfare Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131 *et seq.*); the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, as amended and supplemented (7 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*); the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 630 *et seq.*); and any other acts providing for hearings to which the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557, are applicable. Pursuant to the applicable rules of practice, the administrative law judges shall make initial decisions in adjudication and rate proceedings subject to 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557. Such decisions shall become final without further proceedings unless there is an appeal to the Secretary by a party to the proceeding in accordance with the applicable rules of practice: Provided, however, that no decision shall be final for purposes of judicial review except a final decision of the Secretary upon appeal. As used herein, “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, the Judicial Officer, or other officer or employee of the Department delegated, pursuant to the Act of April 4, 1940 (7 U.S.C. 450c-450g), and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.), “regulatory functions” as that term is defined in the 1940 Act, in acting as final deciding officer in adjudication and rate proceedings subject to 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557. Administrative Law Judges are delegated authority to hold hearings and perform related duties as provided in the Rules of Practice Governing Cease and Desist Proceedings Under Section 2 of the Capper-Volstead Act, set forth in part 1, subpart I of this title. 


(2) [Reserved]


(b) The Chief Administrative Law Judge is delegated the following administrative responsibilities subject to the guidance and control of the Assistant Secretary for Administration (*See* § 2.24(a)(12)):


(1) Exercise general responsibility and authority for all matters related to the administrative activities of the Office of Administrative Law Judges; and 


(2) Direct the functions of the Hearing Clerk as set out in § 2.24(a)(12)(iii).



---

[N] [60 FR 56393, Nov. 8, 1995, as amended at 75 FR 43380, July 23, 2010] 




