# § 220.46   Medical evidence.

(a) *Acceptable sources.* The Board needs reports about the claimant's impairment(s) from acceptable medical sources. Acceptable medical sources are—


(1) Licensed physicians;


(2) Licensed osteopaths;


(3) Licensed or certified psychologists;


(4) Licensed optometrists for the measurement of visual acuity and visual fields (a report from a physician may be needed to determine other aspects of eye diseases); and


(5) Persons authorized to furnish a copy or summary of the records of a medical facility. Generally, the copy or summary should be certified as accurate by the custodian or by any authorized employee of the Railroad Retirement Board, Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, or State agency.


(b) *Medical reports.* Medical reports should include—


(1) Medical history;


(2) Clinical findings (such as the results of physical or mental status examinations);


(3) Laboratory findings (such as blood pressure, x-rays);


(4) Diagnosis (statement of disease or injury based on its signs and symptoms);


(5) Treatment prescribed, with response to treatment and prognosis; and


(6)(i) Statements about what the claimant can still do despite his or her impairment(s) based on the medical source's findings on the factors under paragraph (b)(1) through (5) of this section (except in disability claims for remarried widow's and surviving divorced spouses). (See § 220.112).


(ii) Statements about what the claimant can still do (based on the medical source's findings on the factors under paragraph (b)(1) through (5) of this section) should describe—


(A) The medical source's opinion about the claimant's ability, despite his or her impairment(s), to do work-related activities such as sitting, standing, moving about, lifting, carrying, handling objects, hearing, speaking, and traveling; and


(B) In cases of mental impairment(s), the medical source's opinion about the claimant's ability to reason or make occupational, personal, or social adjustments. (See § 220.112).


(c) *Completeness.* The medical evidence, including the clinical and laboratory findings, must be complete and detailed enough to allow the Board to make a determination about whether or not the claimant is disabled. It must allow the Board to determine—


(1) The nature and limiting effects of the claimant's impairment(s) for any period in question;


(2) The probable duration of the claimant's impairment(s); and


(3) The claimant's residual functional capacity to do work-related physical and mental activities.


(d) *Evidence from physicians.* A statement by or the opinion of the claimant's treating physician will not determine whether the claimant is disabled. However, the medical evidence provided by a treating physician will be considered by the Board in making a disability decision. A treating physician is a doctor to whom the claimant has been going for treatment on a continuing basis. The claimant may have more than one treating physician. The Board may use consulting physicians or other medical consultants for specialized examinations or tests, to obtain more complete evidence, and to resolve any conflicts. A consulting physician is a doctor (often a specialist) to whom the claimant is referred for an examination once or on a limited basis. (See § 220.50 for an explanation of when the Board may request a consultative examination.)


(e) *Information from other sources.* Information from other sources may also help the Board understand how an impairment affects the claimant's ability to work. Other sources include—


(1) Public and private social welfare agencies;


(2) Observations by nonmedical sources;


(3) Other practitioners (for example, naturopaths, chiropractors, audiologists, etc.); and


(4) Railroad and nonrailroad employers.


