# § 172.102   Special provisions.

(a) *General.* When column 7 of the § 172.101 table refers to a special provision for a hazardous material, the meaning and requirements of that provision are as set forth in this section. When a special provision specifies packaging or packaging requirements—


(1) The special provision is in addition to the standard requirements for all packagings prescribed in § 173.24 of this subchapter and any other applicable packaging requirements in subparts A and B of part 173 of this subchapter; and


(2) To the extent a special provision imposes limitations or additional requirements on the packaging provisions set forth in column 8 of the § 172.101 table, packagings must conform to the requirements of the special provision.


(b) *Description of codes for special provisions.* Special provisions contain packaging provisions, prohibitions, exceptions from requirements for particular quantities or forms of materials and requirements or prohibitions applicable to specific modes of transportation, as follows:


(1) A code consisting only of numbers (for example, “11”) is multi-modal in application and may apply to bulk and non-bulk packagings.


(2) A code containing the letter “A” refers to a special provision which applies only to transportation by aircraft.


(3) A code containing the letter “B” refers to a special provision that applies only to bulk packaging requirements. Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, these special provisions do not apply to UN, IM Specification portable tanks or IBCs.


(4) A code containing the letters “IB” or “IP” refers to a special provision that applies only to transportation in IBCs. 


(5) A code containing the letter “N” refers to a special provision which applies only to non-bulk packaging requirements.


(6) A code containing the letter “R” refers to a special provision which applies only to transportation by rail.


(7) A code containing the letter “T” refers to a special provision which applies only to transportation in UN or IM Specification portable tanks.


(8) A code containing the letters “TP” refers to a portable tank special provision for UN or IM Specification portable tanks that is in addition to those provided by the portable tank instructions or the requirements in part 178 of this subchapter.


(9) A code containing the letter “W” refers to a special provision that applies only to transportation by water.


(c) *Tables of special provisions.* The following tables list, and set forth the requirements of, the special provisions referred to in column 7 of the § 172.101 table.


(1) *Numeric provisions.* These provisions are multi-modal and apply to bulk and non-bulk packagings:


(2) *“A” codes.* These provisions apply only to transportation by aircraft:


(3) *“B” codes.* These provisions apply only to bulk packagings. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, these special provisions do not apply to UN portable tanks or IBCs:


(4) *IB Codes and IP Codes.* These provisions apply only to transportation in IBCs and Large Packagings. Table 1 authorizes IBCs for specific proper shipping names through the use of IB Codes assigned in the § 172.101 table of this subchapter. Table 2 defines IP Codes on the use of IBCs that are assigned to specific commodities in the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter. Table 3 authorizes Large Packagings for specific proper shipping names through the use of IB Codes assigned in the § 172.101 table of this subchapter. Large Packagings are authorized for the Packing Group III entries of specific proper shipping names when either special provision IB3 or IB8 is assigned to that entry in the § 172.101 Table. When no IB code is assigned in the § 172.101 Table for a specific proper shipping name, or in § 173.185 or § 173.225(e) Organic Peroxide Table for Type F organic peroxides, use of an IBC or Large Packaging for the material may be authorized when approved by the Associate Administrator. The letter “Z” shown in the marking code for composite IBCs must be replaced with a capital code letter designation found in § 178.702(a)(2) of this subchapter to specify the material used for the other packaging. Tables 1, 2, and 3 follow:


(5) *“N” codes.* These provisions apply only to non-bulk packagings:


(6) *“R” codes.* These provisions apply only to transportation by rail.


R1 A person who offers for transportation tank cars containing sulfur, molten or residue of sulfur, molten may reference the Sulfur Institute's, “Molten Sulphur Rail Tank Car Guidance document” (see § 171.7 of this subchapter) to identify tank cars that may pose a risk in transportation due to the accumulation of formed, solid sulfur on the outside of the tank.


(7) *“T” codes.* (i) These provisions apply to the transportation of hazardous materials in UN portable tanks. Portable tank instructions specify the requirements applicable to a portable tank when used for the transportation of a specific hazardous material. These requirements must be met in addition to the design and construction specifications in part 178 of this subchapter. Portable tank instructions T1 through T22 specify the applicable minimum test pressure, the minimum shell thickness (in reference steel), bottom opening requirements and pressure relief requirements. Liquefied compressed gases are assigned to portable tank instruction T50. Refrigerated liquefied gases that are authorized to be transported in portable tanks are specified in tank instruction T75.


(ii) The following table specifies the portable tank requirements applicable to “T” Codes T1 through T22. Column 1 specifies the “T” Code. Column 2 specifies the minimum test pressure, in bar (1 bar = 14.5 psig), at which the periodic hydrostatic testing required by § 180.605 of this subchapter must be conducted. Column 3 specifies the section reference for minimum shell thickness or, alternatively, the minimum shell thickness value. Column 4 specifies the applicability of § 178.275(g)(3) of this subchapter for the pressure relief devices. When the word “Normal” is indicated, § 178.275(g)(3) of this subchapter does not apply. Column 5 references applicable requirements for bottom openings in part 178 of this subchapter. “Prohibited” means bottom openings are prohibited, and “Prohibited for liquids” means bottom openings are authorized for solid material only. The table follows: 


(iii) T50 When portable tank instruction T50 is indicated in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table, the applicable liquefied compressed gas and chemical under pressure descriptions are authorized to be transported in portable tanks in accordance with the requirements of § 173.313 of this subchapter.


(iv) *T75.* When portable tank instruction T75 is referenced in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table, the applicable refrigerated liquefied gases are authorized to be transported in portable tanks in accordance with the requirements of § 178.277 of this subchapter.


(v) *UN and IM portable tank codes/special provisions.* When a specific portable tank instruction is specified by a “T” Code in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table for a specific hazardous material, a specification portable tank conforming to an alternative tank instruction may be used if:


(A) The alternative portable tank has a higher or equivalent test pressure (for example, 4 bar when 2.65 bar is specified);


(B) The alternative portable tank has greater or equivalent wall thickness (for example, 10 mm when 6 mm is specified);


(C) The alternative portable tank has a pressure relief device as specified in the “T” Code. If a frangible disc is required in series with the reclosing pressure relief device for the specified portable tank, the alternative portable tank must be fitted with a frangible disc in series with the reclosing pressure relief device; and


(D) With regard to bottom openings—


(*1*) When two effective means are specified, the alternative portable tank is fitted with bottom openings having two or three effective means of closure or no bottom openings; or


(*2*) When three effective means are specified, the portable tank has no bottom openings or three effective means of closure; or


(*3*) When no bottom openings are authorized, the alternative portable tank must not have bottom openings.


(vi) Except when an organic peroxide is authorized under § 173.225(g), if a hazardous material is not assigned a portable tank “T” Code, the hazardous material may not be transported in a portable tank unless approved by the Associate Administrator.


(8) *“TP” codes.* (i) These provisions apply to the transportation of hazardous materials in IM and UN Specification portable tanks. Portable tank special provisions are assigned to certain hazardous materials to specify requirements that are in addition to those provided by the portable tank instructions or the requirements in part 178 of this subchapter. Portable tank special provisions are designated with the abbreviation TP (tank provision) and are assigned to specific hazardous materials in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table.


(ii) The following is a list of the portable tank special provisions:


(9) *“W” codes.* These provisions apply only to transportation by water:



---

[N] [Amdt. 172-123, 55 FR 52582, Dec. 21, 1990]


