# ยง 423.1   Definitions.

(a) *Care label* means a permanent label or tag, containing regular care information and instructions, that is attached or affixed in such a manner that it will not become separated from the product and will remain legible during the useful life of the product.


(b) *Certain Piece Goods* means textile products sold by the piece from bolts or rolls for the purpose of making home sewn textile wearing apparel. This includes remnants, the fiber content of which is known, that are cut by or for a retailer but does not include manufacturers' remnants, up to ten yards long, that are clearly and conspicuously marked *pound goods* or *fabrics of undetermined origin* (i.e., fiber content is not known and cannot be easily ascertained) and trim, up to five inches wide.


(c) *Dryclean* means a commercial process by which soil is removed from products or specimens in a machine which uses any common organic solvent (e.g. petroleum, perchlorethylene, fluorocarbon). The process may also include adding moisture to the solvent, up to 75% relative humidity, hot tumble drying up to 160 degrees F (71 degrees C) and restoration by steam press or steam-air finishing.


(d) *Machine Wash* means a process by which soil is removed from products in a specially designed machine using water, detergent or soap and agitation. When no temperature is given, e.g., *warm* or *cold,* hot water up to 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) can be regularly used. 


(e) *Regular Care* means customary and routine care, not spot care.


(f) *Textile Product* means any commodity, woven, knit or otherwise made primarily of fiber, yarn or fabric and intended for sale or resale, requiring care and maintenance to effectuate ordinary use and enjoyment.


(g) *Textile Wearing Apparel* means any finished garment or article of clothing made from a textile product that is customarily used to cover or protect any part of the body, including hosiery, excluding footwear, gloves, hats or other articles used exclusively to cover or protect the head or hands.



---

[N] [48 FR 22743, May 20, 1983; 48 FR 24869, June 3, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 47275, Aug. 2, 2000]




