# § 200.210   Amount of penalties and assessments.

(a) *Penalties.*1 (1) Except as provided in this section, the DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $20,504 for each individual violation that is subject to a determination under this subpart.


(2) For each individual violation of § 200.200(b)(1), the DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $20,504 for each separately billable or non-separately-billable item or service provided, furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an excluded individual or entity.


(3) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $100,522 for each false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in violation of § 200.200(b)(3).


(4) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $100,522 for each false record or statement in violation of § 200.200(b)(5).


(5) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $20,504 for each item or service related to an overpayment that is not reported and returned in accordance with section 1128J(d) of the Act in violation of § 200.200(b)(4).


(6) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $30,757 for each day of failure to grant timely access in violation of § 200.200(b)(6).


(b) *Assessments.* (1) Except for violations of § 200.200(b)(1) and (3), the DHA may impose an assessment for each individual violation of § 200.200, of not more than 3 times the amount claimed for each item or service.


(2) For violations of § 200.200(b)(1), the DHA may impose an assessment of not more than 3 times—


(i) The amount claimed for each separately billable item or service provided, furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an excluded individual or entity; or


(ii) The total costs (including salary, benefits, taxes, and other money or items of value) related to the excluded individual or entity incurred by the person that employs, contracts with, or otherwise arranges for an excluded individual or entity to provide, furnish, order, or prescribe a non-separately-billable item or service.


(3) For violations of § 200.200(b)(3), the DHA may impose an assessment of not more than 3 times the total amount claimed for each item or service for which payment was made based upon the application containing the false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of material fact.




