# ยง 63.6022   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and in ยง 63.2, the General Provisions. The following are additional definitions of terms used in this subpart:


*As purchased* means the condition of a cement and solvent as delivered to the facility, prior to any mixing, blending, or dilution.




*Bag leak detector system* (BLDS) is a type of PM detector used on fabric filters to identify an increase in PM emissions resulting from a broken filter bag or other malfunction and sound an alarm.






*Capture system* means a hood, enclosed room, or other means of collecting organic HAP emissions into a closed-vent system that conveys these emissions to a control device.


*Cements and solvents* means the collection of all organic chemicals, mixtures of chemicals, and compounds used in the production of rubber tires, including cements, solvents, and mixtures used as process aids. Cements and solvents include, but are not limited to, tread end cements, undertread cements, bead cements, tire building cements and solvents, green tire spray, blemish repair paints, side wall protective paints, marking inks, materials used to clean process equipment, and slab dip mixtures. Cements and solvents do not include coatings or process aids used in tire cord production, puncture sealant application, rubber processing, or materials used to construct, repair, or maintain process equipment, or chemicals and compounds that are not used in the tire production process such as materials used in routine janitorial or facility grounds maintenance, office supplies (*e.g.,* dry-erase markers, correction fluid), architectural paint, or any substance to the extent it is used for personal, family, or household purposes, or is present in the same form and concentration as a product packaged for distribution to and use by the general public.


*Coating* means a compound or mixture of compounds that is applied to a fabric substrate in the tire cord production operation that allows the fabric to be prepared (*e.g.,* by heating, setting, curing) for incorporation into a rubber tire.


*Components of rubber tires* means any piece or part used in the manufacture of rubber tires that becomes an integral portion of the rubber tire when manufacture is complete and includes mixed rubber compounds, sidewalls, tread, tire beads, and liners. Other components often associated with rubber tires such as wheels, valve stems, tire bladders and inner tubes are not considered components of rubber tires for the purposes of these standards. Tire cord and puncture sealant, although components of rubber tires, are considered as separate affected sources in these standards and are defined separately.


*Control device* means a combustion device, recovery device, recapture device, or any combination of these devices used for recovering or oxidizing organic hazardous air pollutant vapors. Such equipment includes, but is not limited to, absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, incinerators (oxidizers), flares, boilers, and process heaters.


*Control system efficiency* means the percent of total volatile organic compound emissions, as measured by EPA Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A), recovered or destroyed by a control device multiplied by the percent of total volatile organic compound emissions, as measured by Method 25 or 25A, that are captured and conveyed to the control device.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source, subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limitation (including any operating limit) or work practice standard;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Before January 21, 2021, fails to meet any emission limitation (including any operating limit) or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, and malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart. On and after January 21, 2021, this paragraph no longer applies.


*Emission limitation* means any emission limit, opacity limit, operating limit, or visible emission limit.


*Fabric processed* means the amount of fabric coated and finished for use in subsequent product manufacturing.


*Mixed rubber compound* means the material, commonly referred to as rubber, from which rubber tires and components of rubber tires are manufactured. For the purposes of this definition, mixed rubber compound refers to the compound that leaves the rubber mixing process (*e.g.,* banburys) and is then processed into components from which rubber tires are manufactured.


*Monthly operating period* means the period in the Notification of Compliance Status report comprised of the number of operating days in the month.


*Operating day* means the period defined in the Notification of Compliance Status report. It may be from midnight to midnight or a portion of a 24-hour period.




*Particulate matter (PM) detector* means a system that is continuously capable of monitoring PM loading in the exhaust of a fabric filter in order to detect bag leaks, upset conditions, or control device malfunctions and sounds an alarm at a preset level. A PM detector system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effects to continuously monitor relative particulate loadings. A BLDS is a type of PM detector.






*Process aid* means a solvent, mixture, or cement used to facilitate or assist in tire component identification; component storage; tire building; tire curing; and tire repair, finishing, and identification.


*Puncture sealant* means a mixture that may include, but is not limited to, solvent constituents, mixed rubber compound, and process oil that is applied to the inner liner of a finished tire for the purpose of sealing any future hole which might occur in the tread when an object penetrates the tire.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.


*Rubber* means the sum of the materials (for example, natural rubber, synthetic rubber, carbon black, oils, sulfur) that are combined in specific formulations for the sole purpose of making rubber tires or components of rubber tires.


*Rubber mixing* means the physical process of combining materials for use in rubber tire manufacturing to make mixed rubber compound using the collection of banburys and associated drop mills.


*Rubber tire* means a continuous solid or pneumatic cushion typically encircling a wheel and usually consisting, when pneumatic, of an external rubber covering.


*Rubber used* means the total mass of mixed rubber compound delivered to the tire production operations in a tire manufacturing facility (*e.g.,* the collection of warm-up mills, extruders, calendars, tire building, or other tire component and tire manufacturing equipment).


*Tire cord* means any fabric (*e.g.,* polyester, cotton) that is treated with a coating mixture that allows the fabric to more readily accept impregnation with rubber to become an integral part of a rubber tire.



---

[N] [67 FR 45598, July 9, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 11747, Mar. 12, 2003; 85 FR 44764, July 24, 2020. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 94909, 94914, Nov. 29, 2024]





