# ยง 4284.950   Award selection.

(a) Applications will be selected for further processing and consideration of an award after the merit evaluation process is completed for all eligible applications. Each eligible application will be scored on criteria 1 through 6 as detailed in the annual notification. The scores will be ranked highest to lowest and this will comprise the initial application ranking. Applications will be ranked solely on the points awarded by the reviewers, unless there is a tie. In that case, the Administrator of the Agency (or State Director) will break the tie at his or her discretion based on evaluation criterion 7.


(b) Applications for reserved funds will be funded in rank order until funds are depleted. Unfunded reserve applications will then compete for general funds where applications will be funded in rank order until available funds are expended or the minimum score for funding of 50 points is reached. Funding for Majority Controlled Producer-Based Business Ventures is limited to 10 percent of total grant funds expected to be obligated each funding cycle. These applications will be funded in rank order until the funding limitation has been reached.


(c) If an application cannot be fully funded, the Agency will offer partial funding to the extent funds are available. If the Applicant offered partial funding does not accept, the Agency will offer the funding to the next highest-ranked Applicant until an Applicant is found that accepts the funding or no additional eligible Applicants exist. If an application is ranked and not funded, it will not be carried forward into the next Fiscal Year competition.






