# ยง 4270.13   Appeal process.

Participating Organizations whose product certification has been revoked may appeal to USDA.


(a) *Filing an appeal.* (1) Appeals to the Agency must be filed within 30 Days of receipt by the appellant of a notice of suspension and revocation. Appeals must be filed in writing via email to the BioPreferred Program's email address as noted on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(2) All appeals must include a copy of the adverse decision and a statement of the appellant's reasons for believing that the decision was not made in accordance with the applicable Program regulations, policies, or procedures, or otherwise was not proper.


(b) *Reviewing appeals.* (1) If USDA sustains a Participating Organization's appeal of a notice of suspension and revocation, the participant and its Designated Representative(s) may immediately resume affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to the Certified Biobased Product and sell and distribute the Certified Biobased Product with the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. In addition, USDA will reinstate the product's information to the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(2) If USDA denies a participant's appeal of a notice of suspension and revocation, then the notice of suspension and revocation stands.


(c) *Appeals of decisions made on appeals.* Appeals of any of the BioPreferred Program's decisions may be made to the Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator. Appeals must be made, in writing, within 30 Days of receipt of USDA's decision and addressed to: Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-1522 STOP 3250. If the Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator sustains an appeal, the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section will apply.






