# § 891.102   Definitions.

In this part: 


(a) *Annuity* means the periodic payment due a former employee or his/her survivors by reason of past service, but does not include compensation paid under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code. 


(b) *Annuity period* means the period for which an installment of annuity is paid. 


(c) *Bureau of Employees' Compensation* means the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, Department of Labor. 


(d) *Carrier* means a voluntary association, corporation, partnership, or other nongovernmental organization which lawfully offers a health benefits plan. 


(e) *Compensation* means monthly compensation paid under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, and includes compensation payable every 4 weeks. 


(f) *Elect* means to file with the retirement office under which retired or with the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, as the case may be, a properly completed form, prescribed by OPM for the purpose, giving notice of intention (1) to subscribe to the uniform plan, (2) to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan, or (3) not to participate in the program. 


(g) *Employee* means an appointive or elective officer or employee in or under the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the United States Government, including a Government-owned or controlled corporation (but not including any corporation under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, of which corporation any member of the board of directors is elected or appointed by private interests), or of the government of the District of Columbia, and includes an Official Reporter of Debates of the Senate and a person employed by the Official Reporters of Debates of the Senate in connection with the performance of their official duties, and an employee of Gallaudet College, but does not include (1) a member of a “uniformed service” as that term is defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code, (2) a noncitizen employee whose permanent-duty station is located outside a State of the United States or the District of Columbia, or (3) an employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority. 


(h) *Government* means the Government of the United States of America and the government of the District of Columbia. 


(i) *Health benefits plan* means an individual or group insurance policy or contract, medical or hospital service arrangement, membership or subscription contract, or similar agreement provided by a carrier for a stated periodic premium or subscription charge for the purpose of providing, paying for, or reimbursing expenses for hospital care, surgical or medical diagnosis, care, and treatment, drugs and medicines, remedial care, or other medical supplies and services, or any combination of these. 


(j) *Immediate annuity* means (1) as applied to a retired employee, an annuity which begins to accrue not later than 1 month after the date of the separation from the service on which title to the annuity is based; and (2) as applied to a survivor, an annuity which begins to accrue not later than 1 month (i) after the date of death of the employee or annuitant whose service forms the basis for the annuity, or (ii) after the birth of a posthumous child of such an employee or annuitant. 


(k) *Member of family* means a former employee's spouse and any unmarried child (1) under 19 years of age (including (i) an adopted child, and (ii) a stepchild or recognized natural child who lives with the former employee in a regular parent-child relationship or did so at the time of the former employee's death); or (2) regardless of age who is incapable of self-support because of mental or physical disability that existed before the child became 19 years of age. As used in this paragraph, *Former employee* means the former employee on whose service title to annuity is based. 


(l) *Private health benefits plan* means a health benefits plan other than the uniform plan. 


(m) *Retired employee* includes (1) a former employee retired under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, or other retirement system for civilian employees of the Government (not including the social security system), (2) an employee or former employee receiving compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, and (3) persons who are entitled to annuity or compensation as members of the family of a deceased employee or of a deceased retired employee qualifying under paragraphs (m) (1) and (2) of this section. 


(n) *Retirement office* means (1) any office responsible for the administration of a retirement system for civilian employees of the Government; and (2) the Bureau of Employees' Compensation. 


(o) *Service* means service which is creditable for the purposes of subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code. 


(p) *Survivor* means a person who is entitled to annuity or compensation as a member of the family of a deceased employee or deceased retired employee. 


(q) *Uniform plan* means the health benefits plan for which OPM contracts pursuant to section 3, 74 Stat. 849. 




