# § 63.314   Fenceline monitoring provisions.

For each by-product coke oven battery facility as defined in § 63.301 of this subpart, beginning no later than July 7, 2025, the owner or operator of a coke manufacturing facility shall conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) The owner or operator must conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part and paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2) of this section. The monitoring perimeter may be located within the facility, inside the facility property boundary. However, the monitoring perimeter must encompass all potential sources of benzene that are located within the facility's property boundary.


(1) The target analyte is benzene. The owner or operator must follow the procedure in section 9.6 of Method 325B in appendix A to this part to determine the detection limit of benzene for each sampler used to collect samples and blanks.


(2) The owner or operator must use a sampling period and sampling frequency as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this section.


(i) A 14-day sampling period must be used unless a shorter sampling period is determined to be necessary under paragraph (e) or (g) of this section. A sampling period is defined as the period during which a sampling tube is deployed at a specific sampling location with the diffusive sampling end cap in-place and does not include the time required to analyze the sample. For the purpose of this subpart, a 14-day sampling period may be no shorter than 13 calendar days and no longer than 15 calendar days, but the routine sampling period must be 14 calendar days.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the frequency of sample collection must be once each contiguous 14-day sampling period, such that the beginning of the next 14-day sampling period begins immediately upon the completion of the previous 14-day sampling period.


(iii) When an individual monitor consistently achieves results for benzene at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to use the applicable minimum sampling frequency specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section for that monitoring site. When calculating Δc for the monitoring period when using this alternative for burden reduction, use zero for the lowest sampling result for each monitoring period where one or more samples was not taken and/or analyzed for benzene.


(A) If every sample at a monitoring site is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (52 consecutive samples), every other sampling period can be skipped for that monitoring site, *i.e.,* sampling will occur approximately once per month.


(B) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (*i.e.,* 26 consecutive “monthly” samples), five 14-day sampling periods can be skipped for that monitoring site following each period of sampling, *i.e.,* sampling will occur approximately once per quarter.


(C) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (*i.e.,* 8 consecutive quarterly samples), twelve 14-day sampling periods can be skipped for that monitoring site following each period of sampling, *i.e.,* sampling will occur twice a year.


(D) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for 2 years (*i.e.,* 4 consecutive semiannual samples), only one sample per year is required for that monitoring site. For yearly sampling, samples shall occur at least 10 months but no more than 14 months apart.


(E) If at any time a sample for a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section returns a result that is above the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the sampling site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for one quarter (six 14-day sampling periods). If every sample collected during this quarter is at or below the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may revert back to the reduced monitoring schedule applicable for that monitoring site prior to the sample reading exceeding the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If any sample collected during this quarter is above the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, that monitoring site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for a minimum of two years. The burden reduction requirements can be used again for that monitoring site once the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section are met again, *i.e.,* after 52 contiguous 14-day samples with no results above the level specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) To use the alternative sampling frequency outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an individual monitor must consistently achieve results for benzene at or below 0.7 _m_g/m
3.


(b) The owner or operator shall collect and record meteorological data according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) If a near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section and/or if an alternative test method is used that provides time-resolved measurements, the owner or operator must use an on-site meteorological station in accordance with section 8.3 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part. Collect and record hourly average meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction, and calculate daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta.


(2) For cases other than those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall collect and record sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure using either an on-site meteorological station in accordance with section 8.3 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part or, alternatively, using data from a National Weather Service (NWS) meteorological station provided the NWS meteorological station is within 40 kilometers (25 miles) of the coke manufacturing facility.


(3) If an on-site meteorological station is used, the owner or operator shall follow the calibration and standardization procedures for meteorological measurements in EPA-454/B-08-002 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(c) Within 45 days of completion of each sampling period, the owner or operator shall determine whether the results are above or below the action level as follows.


(1) The owner or operator must determine the facility impact on the benzene concentration (Δc) for each sampling period according to either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Except when near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the highest and lowest sample results for benzene concentrations from the sample pool and calculate Δc as the difference in these concentrations. Co-located samples must be averaged together for the purposes of determining the benzene concentration for that sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc. The owner or operator shall adhere to the following procedures when one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for benzene:


(A) If the lowest detected value of benzene is below detection, the owner or operator shall use zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.


(B) If all sample results are below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use the method detection limit as the highest sample result and zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.


(C) In the case of co-located samples, if one sample is above the method detection limit while the other sample is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator must use the method detection limit as the result for the sample that is below the method detection limit for purposes of averaging the results to determine the concentration at a particular sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc.


(ii) When near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the owner or operator must determine Δc using the calculation protocols outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section except as provided in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii), and the additional requirements in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, as well as any additional requirements outlined in the approved site-specific monitoring plan. The Δc for the sampling period is equal to the higher of the values in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The highest corrected sample result from a sampling location where near-field source correction is used during the sampling period.


(B) The difference in concentration between the highest sample result that was not corrected for a near-field source during the sampling period and the lowest sample result for the sampling period.


(2) The owner or operator must calculate the annual average Δc based on the average of the 26 most recent 14-day sampling periods. The owner or operator must update this annual average value after receiving the results of each subsequent 14-day sampling period.


(3) The action level for benzene is 7 _m_g/m
3 on an annual average basis. If the annual average Δc value for benzene is greater than 7 _m_g/m
3, the concentration is above the action level, and the owner or operator must conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) Once the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been exceeded, the owner or operator must take the following actions to bring the annual average Δc back below the action level.


(1) Within 5 days of updating the annual average value as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and determining that the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been exceeded (*i.e.,* in no case longer than 50 days after completion of the sampling period), the owner or operator must initiate a root cause analysis to determine appropriate corrective action. A root cause analysis is an assessment conducted through a process of investigation to determine the primary underlying cause and all other contributing causes to an exceedance of the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(i) Root cause analysis may include, but is not limited to:


(A) Leak inspection using Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, optical gas imaging, or handheld monitors.


(B) Visual inspection to determine the cause of the high benzene emissions.


(C) Employing progressively more frequent sampling, analysis and meteorology (*e.g.,* using shorter sampling periods for Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part, or using active sampling techniques, like those utilized as part of a site-specific monitoring plan).


(D) Operator knowledge of process changes (*e.g.,* a malfunction or release event).


(ii) If the root cause cannot be identified using the type of techniques described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the owner or operator must employ more frequent sampling and analysis to determine the root cause of the exceedance.


(A) The owner or operator may first employ additional monitoring points and shorter sampling periods for Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part for benzene to determine the root cause of the exceedance.


(B) If the owner or operator has not determined the root cause of the exceedance within 30 days of determining that the action level has been exceeded, the owner or operator must employ the appropriate real-time sampling techniques (*e.g.,* mobile gas chromatographs, optical spectroscopy instruments, sensors) to locate the cause of the exceedance. If the root cause is not identified after 48 hours, either the real-time monitor must be relocated or an additional real-time monitor must be added. Relocation or addition of extra real-time monitors must continue after each 48-hour period of nonidentification until the owner or operator can identify the root cause of the exceedance.


(2) If either the underlying primary or other contributing causes of the exceedance are deemed to be under the control of the owner or operator and subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must take appropriate corrective action as expeditiously as possible to bring annual average fenceline concentrations back below the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and to prevent future exceedances from the same underlying cause(s).


(3) If the underlying primary or other contributing cause of the exceedance is under the control of the owner or operator but not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63, as evidenced through the root cause analysis in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and supported by appropriate real-time sampling techniques consistent with paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the owner or operator is not required to take corrective action under this subpart at any portion of the facility not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63. However, the owner or operator must add additional monitoring locations in accordance with section 8.2.1.3 of EPA Method 325A in appendix A to this part or update their site-specific monitoring plan to add additional real-time monitors to account and correct for this near-field source of emissions not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63 within 60 days of determining the underlying cause.


(4) The root cause analysis must be completed and initial corrective actions, if applicable, taken no later than 45 days after determining there is an exceedance of an action level.


(5) Except as noted in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, until the annual average Δc is below the action level again, following the completion of the initial corrective action, the owner or operator must conduct a new root cause analysis according to this paragraph (d), and if required, submit a corrective action plan under paragraph (e) of this section following any sampling period for which the Δc for the sampling period is greater than the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(6) This paragraph applies when an owner or operator is required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section to update the site-specific monitoring plan to account for an additional near-field emission source. Until the annual average Δc is below the action level again, following implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan, the owner or operator must conduct a new root cause analysis according to this paragraph (d), and if required, submit a corrective action plan under paragraph (e) of this section following any sampling period for which the Δc for the sampling period is greater than the action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(e) An owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if any of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section are met. The corrective action plan must describe the corrective action(s) completed to date, additional measures that the owner or operator proposes to employ to reduce annual average fenceline concentrations below the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and a schedule for completion of these measures. The corrective action plan does not need to be approved by the Administrator. However, if upon review, the Administrator disagrees with the additional measures outlined in the plan, the owner or operator must revise and resubmit the plan within 7 calendar days of receiving comments from the Administrator.


(1) Except as noted in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if upon completion of the root cause analysis and initial corrective actions required under paragraph (d) of the section, the Δc value for the next sampling period, for which the sampling start time begins after the completion of the initial corrective actions, is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The corrective action plan must include the implementation of real-time sampling techniques to locate the primary and other contributing causes of the exceedance. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the sampling period following the completion of the initial corrective action is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if complete implementation of all corrective measures identified in the root cause analysis required by paragraph (e) of this section will require more than 45 days. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator no later than 60 days following the completion of the root cause analysis required in paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) The owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if upon completion of the root cause analysis and following implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Δc value for the next sampling period, for which the sampling start time begins after implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan, is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The corrective action plan must include the implementation of real-time sampling techniques to locate the primary and other contributing causes of the exceedance. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the sampling period following the implementation of the approved revision to the site-specific monitoring plan is greater than the level specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(f) An owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a site-specific monitoring plan to account for offsite upwind sources or onsite sources not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63 according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must prepare and submit a site-specific monitoring plan and receive approval of the site-specific monitoring plan prior to using the near-field source alternative calculation for determining Δc provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The site-specific monitoring plan shall include, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The procedures in section 12 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part are not required, but may be used, if applicable, when determining near-field source contributions.


(i) Identification of the near-field source or sources. For onsite sources, specify that the onsite source is not subject to a regulation codified in 40 CFR part 63 and identify any federal regulation or federally enforceable permit condition the source is subject to.


(ii) Identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source. If more than one near-field source is present, identify the near-field source or sources that are expected to contribute to the concentration at each monitoring location.


(iii) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction; treatment of invalid data and data below detection limits; and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location.


(iv) A detailed description of the measurement technique, measurement location(s), the standard operating procedures, measurement frequency, recording frequency, measurement detection limit, and data quality indicators to ensure accuracy, precision, and validity of the data. If you are accounting for on-site sources, you must use a real-time sampling technique (*e.g.,* mobile gas chromatographs, optical spectroscopy instruments, sensors).


(v) A detailed description of how data will be handled during periods of calm wind conditions (*i.e.,* less than 2 miles per hour).


(2) When an approved site-specific monitoring plan is used, the owner or operator shall determine Δc for comparison with action level according to paragraph (c) of this section. When determining the sample results for use in the Δc calculation, the concentration for any monitor that has been corrected using an approved site-specific monitoring plan will be corrected according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) For each monitoring location corrected using the site-specific monitoring plan, the corrected fenceline concentration at that monitoring station will be equal to the fenceline concentration measured with Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part minus the near-field source contributing concentration at the measurement location determined using the additional measurements and calculation procedures included in the approved site-specific monitoring plan.


(ii) If the fenceline concentration at the monitoring station is below the method detection limit for Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part, no near-field source contribution can be subtracted from that monitoring station for that sampling period.


(3) The site-specific monitoring plan shall be submitted and approved as described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.


(ii) The site-specific monitoring plan shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (D243-02), Attention: Metals and Inorganic Chemicals Group, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies also may be submitted to *fencelineplan@epa.gov.*

(iii) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove the plan in 120 days. The plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 120-day period shall begin when the Administrator confirms receipt of a complete site-specific monitoring plan.


(iv) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the site-specific monitoring plan and disapproves the plan in writing, the owner or operator may revise and resubmit the site-specific monitoring plan following the requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. The 120-day period starts over with the resubmission of the revised monitoring plan. The Administrator may indicate in writing that a submitted plan is incomplete and specify the information necessary for completeness.


(4) The approval by the Administrator of a site-specific monitoring plan will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of the request for a site-specific monitoring plan. Factors that the Administrator will consider in reviewing the request for a site-specific monitoring plan include, but are not limited to, those described in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The identification of the near-field source or sources and evidence of how the sources impact the fenceline concentration.


(ii) The location(s) selected for additional monitoring to determine the near-field source concentration contribution.


(iii) The identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source or sources.


(iv) The appropriateness of the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location, including the handling of invalid data, data below the detection limit, and data during calm periods.


(v) The adequacy of the description of and the rationale for the measurement technique, measurement location(s), the standard operating procedure, the measurement and recording frequency, measurement detection limit, and data quality indicators proposed to ensure accuracy, precision, and validity of the data.


(g) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.311.


(h) As outlined in § 63.7(f), the owner or operator may submit a request for an alternative test method. At a minimum, the request must follow the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) The alternative method may be used in lieu of all samplers or a partial number of the passive samplers required in Method 325A in appendix A to this part.


(2) The alternative method must be validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of this part or contain performance-based procedures and indicators to ensure self-validation.


(3) The method detection limit must nominally be at least one-third of the action level. The alternate test method must describe the procedures used to provide field verification of the detection limit in the sample matrix being measured.


(4) If the alternative test method will be used to replace some or all passive samplers required under paragraph (a) of this section, the spatial coverage must be equal to or better than the spatial coverage provided in Method 325A in appendix A to this part.


(i) For path average concentration open-path instruments, the physical path length of the measurement shall be no more than a passive sample footprint (the spacing that would be provided by the sorbent traps when following Method 325A). For example, if Method 325A requires spacing monitors A and B 610 meters (2000 feet) apart, then the physical path length limit for the measurement at that portion of the fenceline shall be no more than 610 meters (2000 feet).


(ii) For range resolved open-path instrument or approach, the instrument or approach must be able to resolve an average concentration over each passive sampler footprint within the path length of the instrument.


(iii) The extra samplers required in sections 8.2.1.3 of Method 325A may be omitted when they fall within the path length of an open-path instrument.


(5) At a minimum, non-integrating alternative test methods must provide a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.


(6) For alternative test methods capable of real time measurements (less than a 5-minute sampling and analysis cycle), the alternative test method may allow for elimination of data points corresponding to outside emission sources for purpose of calculation of the high point for the two-week average. The alternative test method approach must have wind speed, direction and stability class of the same time resolution and within the footprint of the instrument.


(7) For purposes of averaging data points to determine the Δc for the 14-day average high sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use the method detection limit. For purposes of averaging data points for the 14-day average low sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use zero.





---

[N] [89 FR 55738, July 5, 2024]












