# § 1202.10   Will FHFA expedite my request or appeal?

(a) *Request for expedited processing.* You may request, in writing, expedited processing of an initial request or of an appeal. FHFA may grant expedited processing, and give your request or appeal priority if your request for expedited processing demonstrates a compelling need by establishing one or more of the following—


(1) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;


(2) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity if you are a person primarily engaged in disseminating information;


(3) The loss of substantial due process or rights;


(4) A matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exists possible questions about the Federal Government's integrity, affecting public confidence; or


(5) Humanitarian need.


(b) *Certification of compelling need.* Your request for expedited processing must include a statement certifying that the reason(s) you present demonstrate a compelling need are true and correct to the best of your knowledge.


(c) *Determination on request.* FHFA will notify you within 10 calendar days of receipt of your request whether expedited processing has been granted. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request will be given priority and will be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision under § 1202.9 of this part will be acted on expeditiously.



---

[N] [82 FR 13745, Mar. 15, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 5684, Feb. 9, 2018]




