# § 71.51   Dogs and cats.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section the term:


*Animal* means, for purposes of this section, any domestic cat (*Felis catus*) or domestic dog (*Canis familiaris*).










*CDC dog import form* means an OMB-approved form submitted to CDC through an online portal that includes the importer's name and contact information; description of the dog, including microchip number and current photographs of the dog's face and body; purpose of importation; travel information, including dates of departure and arrival, country of departure, countries the dog has been physically present in within the last six months, and U.S. port of entry; and other information as described in CDC technical instructions.






*CDC dog import permit* means a document issued by CDC granting approval to import a dog into the United States from a DMRVV-restricted country. To receive a permit, eligible importers submit information to CDC that includes the importer's name and contact information; description of the dog, including microchip number and current photographs of the dog's face and body; purpose of importation; travel information, including dates of departure and arrival, country of departure, countries the dog has been physically present in within the last six months, and U.S. port of entry; and other information as described in CDC technical instructions.






*CDC-registered animal care facility* means a facility registered by CDC for the purpose of providing veterinary care and housing to animals imported into the United States.




*Certification of dog arriving from DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country* means the OMB-approved form that together with other records may be used by an importer to demonstrate that a dog has been only in DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk countries during the six months before the dog's arrival in the United States.




*Certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip* means the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-approved form that must be:


(i) completed by an authorized veterinarian, which may include an official government veterinarian, in the exporting country; and


(ii) reviewed and signed by an official government veterinarian in the exporting country attesting that the information listed is true and correct.




*Certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination* means the OMB-approved form that must be completed by a U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)-Accredited Veterinarian and endorsed by a USDA Official Veterinarian prior to a dog's departure from the United States in order to demonstrate compliance with admissibility requirements upon the dog's return to the United States from a DMRVV high-risk country.






*Conditional release,* when applied to an animal, means the temporary release of an animal from the custody of a carrier or a CDC-registered animal care facility into the care of a licensed veterinarian approved by the Director, for the purpose of receiving emergency medical care or a public health evaluation, pending an admissibility determination or removal of the animal from the United States. The licensed veterinarian must return conditionally released animals immediately to the custody of the carrier or the CDC-registered animal care facility upon the conclusion of such medical care or evaluation.






*Confinement,* when applied to an animal, means restriction to a building or other enclosure at a U.S. port or other location approved by the Director, including *en route* to a destination, separate from other animals, and from persons except for contact necessary for its care. If the animal is allowed out of the enclosure, it must be muzzled and kept on a leash.












*DMRVV* means dog-maintained rabies virus variant and includes any rabies virus variant that is known or suspected to have an enzootic transmission cycle in which dogs are essential for the maintenance of the viral variant. This includes epidemiologic situations in which dogs are the only recognized reservoir species, as well as situations in which dogs and other species (typically wildlife) both play epidemiologically relevant roles in maintaining enzootic transmission.






*DMRVV-free country* means a country determined by the Director as not having DMRVV present based on internationally accepted standards.




*DMRVV high-risk country* means a country determined by the Director as having high risk for DMRVV transmission based on factors such as the presence and geographic distribution of the virus, or low quality of or low confidence in rabies surveillance systems or dog vaccination programs. A list of the DMRVV high-risk countries is available on CDC's website.




*DMRVV low-risk country* means a country determined by the Director as having low risk for DMRVV transmission based on factors such as the virus being limited to a localized area, adequacy of surveillance and dog vaccination programs to prevent further geographic distribution of the virus, and the virus being in a controlled status with the country's heading toward eventual DMRVV-free status.




*DMRVV-restricted country* means a country from which the import of dogs into the United States has been prohibited or otherwise restricted. Designation of a DMRVV-restricted country may be based on the country's export of dogs infected with DMRVV to any other country within a timeframe determined by the Director or based on the country's lacking adequate controls, as determined by the Director, to monitor and prevent the export of dogs to the United States with falsified or fraudulent rabies vaccination credentials, inaccurate or invalid rabies vaccination documentation, or other fraudulent, inaccurate, or invalid importation documents.






*Flight parent* means any person transporting one or more animals on behalf of an importer for purposes of resale, adoption, or transfer of ownership. A flight parent is typically solicited through social media and may be compensated (including through goods and services, *e.g.,* complimentary airplane ticket, paid baggage fees, other paid fees) or be uncompensated. If required by USDA, flight parents must possess all required Federal licenses or registrations to transport animals.




*Importer* for purposes of this section means any person importing or attempting to import an animal into the United States, including an owner or a person acting on behalf of an importer, such as a broker registered with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or a flight parent. If required by USDA, an individual transporting an animal on behalf of an importer, including a flight parent must possess all required Federal licenses or registrations to transport animals.




*Owner* means owner or agent.




*SAFE TraQ* means CDC's System for Animal Facility Electronic Tracking of Quarantine or other system as approved by the Director for tracking pre-clearance management (*e.g.,* quarantine, medical examinations, vaccinations, diagnostic testing, screening, and travel information) of animals arriving in the United States through a CDC-registered animal care facility.




*Serologic Testing,* when applied to an imported animal, means a rabies antibody titration test performed by a CDC-approved rabies laboratory using a CDC-approved technique. The serology sample must be drawn, submitted, and tested in accordance with CDC technical instructions. The current list of CDC-approved laboratories is available online on CDC's website. CDC will update its website as needed.




*USDA-Accredited Veterinarian* shall have the same definition as *Accredited Veterinarian* under 9 CFR 160.1.




*USDA Official Veterinarian* means the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) veterinarian who is assigned by the USDA Administrator to supervise and perform the official work of APHIS in any U.S. State or several U.S. States.














(b) *Authorized U.S. airports for dogs and cats.* (1) Cats may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. airport.


(2) Dogs arriving to the United States from DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries and with documentation confirming that they have been only in DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries during the last six months may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. airport.


(3) Dogs that have a valid certification of U.S.-Issued rabies vaccination form may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. airport.


(4) Dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months and have a valid certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form must arrive at and may be admitted only through a U.S. airport with a CDC quarantine station (also known as a U.S. port health station) and a CDC-registered animal care facility.


(5) Dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months that arrive at an unauthorized U.S. airport or that arrive without a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination or certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form shall be denied admission and returned to their countries of departure via air pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section.


(6) The current list of U.S. airports with CDC-registered animal care facilities is available on CDC's website. CDC will update the list as needed.


(c) *Authorized U.S. land ports for dogs and cats.* (1) Cats may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. land port.


(2) Dogs arriving to the United States from DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries and with documentation confirming that they have been only in DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk countries during the last six months may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. land port.


(3) Dogs that have a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. land port.


(4) Dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months and do not have a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form are not authorized to enter the United States through any U.S. land port and shall be denied admission into the United States.


(d) *Authorized U.S. seaports for dogs and cats.* (1) Cats may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. seaport.


(2) Dogs arriving to the United States from DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries and with documentation confirming that they have been only in DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk countries during the last six months may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. seaport.


(3) Dogs that have a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form may arrive at and be admitted into the United States through any U.S. seaport.


(4) Dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months and do not have a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form are not authorized to enter the United States through any U.S. seaport and shall be denied admission into the United States.


(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a dog meeting the definition of a “service animal” under 14 CFR 382.3 that has been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months and was vaccinated against rabies in a foreign country may be admitted through a U.S. seaport if:


(i) The dog accompanies an “individual with a disability” as defined under 14 CFR 382.3; and


(ii) The dog has a valid and complete certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form and a valid serologic titer from a CDC-approved laboratory.


(e) *Limitation on U.S. ports for dogs and cats.* (1) The Director may limit the times, U.S. ports, or conditions under which dogs or cats may arrive at and be admitted to the United States based on an importer's, CDC-registered animal care facility's, or carrier's failure to comply with the provisions of this section or as needed to protect the public's health. If the Director determines a limitation is required, the Director will notify importers, CDC-registered animal care facilities, and carriers in writing of the specific times, U.S. ports, or conditions under which dogs and cats may be permitted to arrive at and be admitted to the United States.


(2) CBP will prescribe the time, place, and manner in which dogs are presented upon arrival at a port of entry, which may include prohibiting dogs from being presented within the Federal Inspection Station.


(f) *Age requirement for all dogs.* (1) All dogs presented for admission into the United States must be at least six (6) months old at the time of their arrival into the United States.


(2) Dogs arriving into the United States that are not at least six (6) months old at the time of their arrival shall be denied admission and returned to the country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section.


(g) *Microchip requirements for all dogs.* (1) All dogs presented for admission into the United States must have a microchip implanted prior to arrival at the U.S. port.


(2) The microchip must have been implanted on or before the date the current rabies vaccine was administered. Rabies vaccines administered prior to the implantation of a microchip are invalid.


(3) The microchip number must be documented on the certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form, the certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form, or if the dog is arriving from a DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free country, documented on one of the forms listed in paragraph (u)(2) of this section and all accompanying veterinary records. The microchip number must also be documented on the CDC dog import form.


(4) Importers must consent to the scanning of the dogs' microchip by CDC quarantine public health officers, CDC-registered animal care facility staff, or their representatives, upon the dogs' arrival at a U.S. port.


(5) Dogs arriving in the United States without a microchip, with a microchip that cannot be detected, with a microchip that does not match the accompanying documentation, or if the importer refuses to have the dogs' microchip scanned, shall be denied admission and returned to the country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section.


(h) *CDC dog import form for all dogs.* (1) All importers of dogs must submit a complete and accurate CDC dog import form to CDC via a CDC-approved system prior to the dogs arriving in the United States. This includes accompanied or unaccompanied dogs arriving by air, land, or sea regardless of where the dogs originated or whether arriving as cargo, checked-baggage, or hand-carried baggage. This excludes dogs that are transiting through the United States without making an entry in accordance with paragraph (cc) of this section.


(2) Dogs that arrive without a receipt confirming that the CDC dog import form was submitted before the dogs' arrival in the United States may be denied admission and returned to their country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section, regardless of the value of the shipment.


(3) Dogs arriving by air without a receipt confirming that the CDC dog import form was submitted before the dogs' arrival in the United States may be held in the care of a CDC-registered animal care facility, on a space-available basis, for up to 24 hours after their arrival. If the dogs arrive at an airport without a CDC-registered animal care facility or if the animal care facility lacks space to house the dogs, the dogs may be held in the care of a licensed veterinarian approved by CDC for up to 24 hours after their arrival until the *CDC Dog Import Form* is filed. The importer (or airline if the importer abandons the animal) is responsible for making all necessary arrangements with a CDC-registered animal care facility or a veterinary clinic (if the CDC-registered animal care facility is unavailable at the airport or lacks space to house the dogs), including arranging transportation to the facility. The airline may require reimbursement from an importer for any associated costs incurred by the airline on the importer's behalf.


(4) Dogs arriving by sea without a receipt confirming submission of a CDC dog import form may be held on board the vessel until the form is filed. The vessel's owner or operator may require reimbursement from an importer for any associated costs incurred by the vessel's owner or operator on the importer's behalf.


(5) Dogs arriving by land without a receipt confirming submission of a CDC dog import form shall be denied admission and returned immediately to the dogs' country of departure, but such denial does not prevent the importer from reapplying for admission of the dogs after the form is filed.


(6) A receipt confirming submission of the CDC dog import form must accompany all dogs departing foreign locations for travel to the United States. For dogs departing from foreign airports to the United States, the airline must deny boarding to dogs unless the importer has presented this receipt prior to boarding.


(7) Airlines, unless granted a waiver in accordance with paragraph (dd) of this section, are required to create a bill of lading for all dogs arriving in the United States prior to the dogs' arrival. This includes dogs transported as cargo, checked-baggage, or hand-carried baggage. If granted a waiver to the bill of lading requirement, the airline's handling and transport of the dogs must be consistent with the terms of that waiver.


(8) Unless being transported by an airline for which a waiver to the bill of lading requirement has been granted pursuant to paragraph (dd) of this section, dogs arriving by air for which a bill of lading has not been filed prior to their arrival in the United States (or if the airline's handling and transport of the dogs is inconsistent with the terms of the waiver) shall be denied admission and returned to their country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section.


(i) *Inspection requirements for admission of all dogs and cats.* (1) All animals arriving at a U.S. port shall be inspected upon arrival, and only those animals that show no signs of communicable disease as defined in 42 CFR 71.1 shall be admitted into the United States.


(2) All animals presented for admission into the United States may be subject to additional examination and disease surveillance screening for the purpose of communicable disease surveillance. Ill animals may be required to undergo additional diagnostic testing prior to release of the animal; such testing is not considered surveillance screening.


(3) The Director may require confinement of an animal and examination by a veterinarian when necessary to determine whether the animal is admissible into the United States, for instance, if dental examination would assist in determining the animal's age.


(4) Importers who refuse to consent to inspection, examination, disease surveillance screening, or diagnostic testing of the animal upon arrival shall have the animal denied admission and returned to its country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section.


(j) *Examination by a USDA-accredited veterinarian and confinement of exposed dogs and cats or those that appear unhealthy.* (1) If an animal, upon inspection, does not appear to be in good health (*e.g.,* it has signs such as emaciation, lesions of the skin, discharge of the eyes or nose, coughing, sneezing, nervous system disturbances, inability to stand or walk, difficulty breathing, jaundice, vomiting, or diarrhea), or appears healthy but, during shipment, may have been exposed to a sick or dead animal (including an animal other than a dog or cat) suspected of having a communicable disease, the Director may require prompt confinement and veterinary examination.


(2) In the case of animals that appear unhealthy or those that were potentially exposed and arriving by air or sea, the Director may require the airline or vessel's master or operator to arrange for a licensed veterinarian to examine the animal and give or arrange for any tests or treatment indicated. In the case of animals that appear unhealthy or those that were potentially exposed and arriving by land, the Director may deny admission, but such denial does not prevent the importer from reapplying for admission after providing the Director with satisfactory evidence that a licensed veterinarian has examined the animal and administered any tests or treatment as needed to ensure the animal does not have a communicable disease.


(3) Carriers shall maintain a record of sickness of animals occurring while *en route* to the United States and shall submit the record to the CDC quarantine station with jurisdiction for the U.S. port.


(4) Animals that become sick while *en route* or on arrival shall be separated from other animals (including animals other than dogs or cats) as soon as the sickness is discovered and shall be held in confinement pending any necessary examination as determined by the Director.


(5) Airlines (in the case of arrivals by air) or the masters or operators of vessels (in the case of arrivals by sea) shall immediately arrange for confinement and medical evaluation of any ill or injured animals at a CDC-registered animal care facility or CDC-approved veterinary facility (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) which, in the judgment of the Director, affords protection against transmission of any communicable disease, and suitable housing in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131 *et seq.,* as may be amended). In the case of ill or injured animals arriving by land, the Director may deny admission, but such denial does not prevent the importer from reapplying for admission after providing the Director with satisfactory evidence of confinement (as needed) and examination by a licensed veterinarian.


(6) The airline or vessel's master or operator shall immediately thereafter arrange for transportation of any ill or injured animals by a CBP-bonded transporter to the CDC-registered animal care facility or other CDC-approved veterinary facility (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) for confinement and medical evaluation. The airline or vessel's master or operator shall arrange to have ill or injured animals transported in a way that does not expose transportation personnel or the public to communicable diseases.


(7) The Director will consider the findings of the examination and tests in determining whether the animal may have a communicable disease.


(8) The importer shall bear the expenses of transportation, confinement, examination, tests, and treatment under this paragraph. If an importer fails to arrange for or pay for such expenses or cooperate with any CDC-mandated public health evaluations, then the animal will be considered abandoned, and the carrier shall assume financial responsibility pursuant to paragraph (aa) of this section.


(9) Confinement shall be subject to conditions specified by the Director to protect the public's health.


(10) CDC may request that CBP conditionally release animals for medical evaluation and treatment in emergency or exigent circumstances. Animals eligible for conditional release shall remain under the legal custody of the carrier or CDC-registered animal care facility for the purpose of receiving veterinary medical care. If such animals are conditionally released to a CDC-approved veterinary facility (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available or cannot provide the level of care needed), then the animal must be immediately returned to the custody of the carrier or CDC-registered animal care facility once medical treatment is no longer required or upon request by either CDC or CBP.


(11) If an importer (or carrier if the animal is abandoned by the importer) opts to have an animal euthanatized (*e.g.,* under circumstances where the animal is fatally ill or injured), the importer or carrier shall promptly communicate this decision to CDC in writing and prior to euthanasia. Euthanasia does not relieve importers or carriers of the obligation to arrange and pay for testing and necropsy required by CDC.


(k) *Veterinary examination, revaccination against rabies, and quarantine at a CDC-registered animal care facility for foreign-vaccinated dogs from DMRVV high-risk countries.* (1) All dogs arriving into the United States that have been in DMRVV high-risk countries within the last six months and that do not have a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form shall undergo veterinary examination and revaccination against rabies at a CDC-registered animal care facility upon arrival.


(2) The importer is responsible for making all arrangements relating to the examination, revaccination, and quarantine (if applicable) at a CDC-registered animal care facility prior to the dog's arrival in the United States. The costs of examination, vaccination, and quarantine (if applicable) shall be borne by the importer and not at the government's expense.


(3) Prior to granting a reservation, CDC-registered animal care facilities must ensure they have received the following:


(i) The completed certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form;


(ii) Serologic test results (if applicable) obtained from a CDC-approved laboratory on a blood sample drawn, submitted, and tested in accordance with CDC's technical instructions;


(iii) Photos of the dogs' teeth to assist with age verification;


(iv) The travel itinerary for the dogs confirming that the dogs will be arriving only at a U.S. airport with a CDC-registered animal care facility and will not be arriving at any other U.S. port; and


(v) A receipt confirming submission of the CDC dog import form.


(4) Importers must present documentation to airlines confirming their reservation at a CDC-registered animal care facility prior to their dogs boarding a flight to the United States. Airlines must deny boarding to dogs if the importer fails to present such documentation.


(5) Airlines must deny boarding to any foreign-vaccinated dog that has been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months for which the importer has not presented a receipt confirming submission of the CDC dog import form and proof of a reservation at a CDC-registered animal care facility, or that is being presented for travel to an unauthorized U.S. airport.


(6) The airline shall arrange for dogs to be transported by a CBP-bonded transporter to the CDC-registered animal care facility immediately upon arrival at the U.S. airport.


(7) The dogs shall remain in the custody of the CDC-registered animal care facility until the following requirements are met:


(i) Veterinary health examination by a USDA-accredited veterinarian for signs of illness. All illnesses must be documented in SAFE TraQ. CDC will review these illness case reports and determine admissibility prior to the dog's release. Suspected or confirmed communicable diseases, including the presence of ectoparasites (*i.e.,* ticks and fleas), must be reported to CDC prior to release of the dog;


(ii) Confirmation of microchip number;


(iii) Confirmation of age through dental examination by a USDA-accredited veterinarian;


(iv) Vaccination against rabies with a USDA-licensed rabies vaccine that is administered by a USDA-accredited veterinarian; and


(v) Confirmation of adequate rabies serologic titer from a CDC-approved laboratory. Blood samples for serologic tests must be drawn within a timeframe as specified in CDC technical instructions. Dogs that arrive without an adequate rabies serologic test results from a CDC-approved laboratory, or with a serologic test result drawn outside the acceptable timeframe, or with serologic test results outside acceptable parameters, shall be housed at the CDC-registered animal care facility for a 28-day quarantine period following administration of the USDA-licensed rabies vaccine.


(l) *Registration or renewal of CDC-registered animal care facilities.* (1) A facility must register with and receive written approval from the Director to function as a CDC-registered animal care facility before housing any live dog imported into the United States. Applications and all required documents must be submitted to *cdcanimalimports@cdc.gov.*

(2) The CDC-registered animal care facility must be located within 35 miles of a CDC quarantine station.


(3) To register or renew a registration certificate, a facility must submit the following documents to CDC:


(i) A completed registration/application form;


(ii) A statement of intent that describes the number and types of animals the facility can safely house at any one time, including the number of animals that can be housed in the quarantine area;


(iii) Written standard operating procedures that include all elements required in paragraphs (k) through (q) of this section;


(iv) A copy of all required Federal, State, or local registrations, licenses, and/or permits; a facility must have a USDA Class H intermediate handlers registration (and any additional class licenses or registrations as deemed appropriate by USDA) and a CBP Facilities Information and Resource Management System (FIRMS) code; and


(v) A self-certification signed by the owner or manager of the CDC-registered animal care facility stating that the facility is in compliance and agrees to continue to comply with the regulations in this section.


(3) Upon receiving the documentation required by this section, the Director will review the application and either grant or deny the application for registration as a CDC-registered animal care facility. Applications that are denied may be appealed under paragraph (r) of this section.


(i) Before issuing a registration, the Director may inspect any animal health record, facility, vehicle, or equipment to be used in management, examination, and clearance of imported animals. Thereafter, animal health records, facilities, vehicles, and equipment used in importing animals may be inspected during annual site inspection visits or when otherwise needed to protect the public's health.


(ii) CDC may conduct unannounced inspections of facilities seeking to register or renew their status as a CDC-registered animal care facility or when otherwise needed to protect the public's health.


(iii) CDC inspections will be based on USDA Animal Welfare regulation standards (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) and other standards as outlined in CDC's *Technical Instructions for CDC-registered Animal Care Facilities.*

(iv) Unless revoked in accordance with paragraph (r) of this section, a registration certificate issued under this section is effective for two years beginning from the date CDC issues the registration certificate.


(v) A CDC-registered animal care facility must apply to CDC for renewal of the registration certificate not less than 60 days and not more than 90 days before the existing registration expires.


(4) The Director may deny an application to register, renew, or reinstate a facility as a CDC-registered animal care facility if the registrant has had a previous registration revoked in accordance with paragraph (r) within the last five years.


(5) All CDC-registered animal care facilities must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (k) through (q) of this section.


(m) *Record-keeping requirements at CDC-registered animal care facilities.* (1) A CDC-registered animal care facility must retain records regarding each imported animal for three years after the release or return of the animal. Each record must include:


(i) the bill of lading (or other alternative documentation if the airline has been granted a waiver under paragraph (dd) of this section) for the shipment;


(ii) the name, address, phone number, and email address of the importer and owner (if different from the importer);


(iii) the number of animals in the shipment;


(iv) the identity of each animal in each shipment, including name, microchip number, date of birth, sex, breed, and coloring;


(v) the airline, flight number, date of arrival, and port of arrival of the shipment; and


(vi) veterinary medical records for the animal, including:


(A) Certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form and rabies serology obtained before arrival in the United States (if applicable);


(B) the USDA-licensed rabies vaccine administered upon arrival;


(C) veterinary examination records upon arrival and while in quarantine;


(D) rabies serology performed while in quarantine in the United States (if applicable);


(E) all diagnostic test results performed during quarantine; and


(F) necropsy reports for imported animals that die while in the care of the CDC-registered animal care facility.


(2) A CDC-registered animal care facility must maintain records electronically in SAFE TraQ.


(i) Copies of all records must be entered directly into or uploaded into SAFE TraQ;


(ii) Records must be uploaded and complete prior to the animal's release from the facility (or for necropsy results within 30 days of an animal's death); and


(iii) CDC will audit records remotely as needed and in-person during site inspection visit(s) at the facility.


(n) *Worker protection plan and personal protective equipment (PPE).* (1) A CDC-registered animal care facility must establish and maintain a worker protection plan with standards comparable to those in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's *Recommended Practices for Safety and Health Programs* and the National Association of Public Health Veterinarians (NASPHV) *Compendium of Veterinary Standard Precautions for Zoonotic Disease Prevention in Veterinary Personnel.*

(2) In addition to complying with the requirements of this section, a facility must comply with all relevant Federal and State requirements relating to occupational health and safety.


(3) Rabies pre-exposure prophylaxis is required for workers who handle imported animals with signs of illness or in quarantine, and for staff who perform necropsies of imported animals. Rabies pre-exposure prophylaxis must be administered in accordance with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices guidelines for pre-exposure prophylaxis vaccination to prevent human rabies.


(4) Post-exposure procedures that provide potentially exposed workers with direct and rapid access to a medical consultant are required.


(5) Procedures for documenting the frequency of worker training, including for those working in the quarantine area, are required.


(6) As part of the worker protection plan, a facility must establish, implement, and maintain hazard evaluation and worker communication procedures that include the following:


(i) Descriptions of known communicable disease and injury hazards associated with handling animals;


(ii) The need for PPE when handling animals and training in the proper use of PPE, including re-training and reinforcement of appropriate use;


(iii) Procedures for disinfection or safe disposal of garments, supplies, equipment, and waste; and


(iv) Procedures for reporting to CDC within 48 hours suspected or confirmed communicable diseases in facility workers associated with handling imported animals.


(o) *CDC-registered animal care facility standard operating procedures, requirements, and equipment standards for crating, caging, and transporting live animals.* (1) Equipment standards for crating, caging, and transporting live animals must be in accordance with USDA Animal Welfare regulation standards (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) and International Air Transport Association standards.


(2) Animals must not be removed from crates during transport.


(3) Used PPE, bedding, and other potentially contaminated material must be removed from the ground transport vehicle upon arrival at the animal care facility and disinfected in a manner that would destroy potential pathogens of concern or safely disposed of in a manner that prevents the spread of communicable disease.


(p) *Health reporting and veterinary service requirements for animals at CDC-registered animal fare facilities.* (1) A CDC-registered animal care facility must provide the following services for each animal upon arrival and ensure that each animal meets CDC entry requirements prior to release from the facility:


(i) veterinary examination by a USDA-accredited veterinarian within one business day of arrival;


(ii) verification of microchip and confirmation that the microchip number matches the animal's health records;


(iii) verification of an animal's age via a dental examination or, if dental examination cannot be reliably performed, verification through another CDC-approved diagnostic method (*e.g.,* ocular lens examination, radiographs);


(iv) revaccination against rabies using a USDA-licensed vaccine; and


(v) confirmation of a valid serology test from a CDC-approved laboratory on a sample drawn from a dog prior to arrival within a timeframe and results within parameters as specified in CDC technical instructions, or completion of a 28-day quarantine at the CDC-registered animal care facility after administration of the USDA-licensed rabies vaccine.


(2) A CDC-registered animal care facility must provide the following services upon the occurrence of any morbidity or mortality in an imported animal in the facility:


(i) Immediate isolation of the animal and implementation of infection prevention and control measures in accordance with industry standards and CDC technical instructions if a communicable disease is suspected.


(ii) Notification to CDC within 24 hours of the arrival of an ill animal or occurrence of any illness or death occurring in an animal.


(iii) Examination by a USDA-accredited veterinarian immediately upon detection of illness and diagnostic testing to determine the cause of illness. All costs associated with examination and diagnostics are the responsibility of the importer.


(iv) For any animal that dies or is euthanized due to fatal illness or injury, necropsy (gross and histopathologic examination are required), and any subsequent infectious disease testing based on gross or histopathology findings or as determined by CDC, to determine the cause of death. The importer is responsible for all costs associated with necropsy and testing.


(v) Suspected or confirmed communicable diseases, including the presence of ectoparasites (*i.e.,* ticks and fleas), must be reported to CDC within 24 hours of identification.


(3) Upon completion of the quarantine period and before a facility releases any animal from quarantine, the facility must ensure that the facility's USDA-accredited veterinarian has verified the health status of the animal.


(4) Any report required under this paragraph must be uploaded to SAFE TraQ prior to the release of the animal.


(q) *Quarantine requirements for animals at CDC-registered animal care facilities.* (1) A CDC-registered animal care facility must maintain a quarantine area for holding animals when quarantine is required. Foreign-vaccinated dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within six months of arrival must be quarantined for 28 days after revaccination with a USDA-licensed rabies vaccine at the facility if they do not have a valid rabies serologic test from a CDC-approved laboratory. CDC may also require quarantine or extend the quarantine period if a facility or CDC finds or suspects that an animal is infected with, or has been exposed to, a communicable disease or if CDC determines that additional diagnostic testing is warranted.


(2) For any quarantine area established or maintained under this section, a facility must establish, implement, maintain, and adhere to standard operating procedures that meet the following physical security requirements:


(i) The CDC-registered animal care facility must be locked and secure, with access limited to authorized and trained personnel.


(ii) A CDC-registered animal care facility must limit access to animal quarantine areas to authorized personnel responsible for the transport, care, or treatment of the animals.


(3) During the quarantine period, a CDC-registered animal care facility must monitor animals for signs of any communicable disease, including, but not limited to, signs consistent with rabies, brucellosis, leptospirosis, leishmaniasis, or ecto- or endoparasites.


(4) If any animals appear ill during quarantine, the CDC-registered animal care facility must, in accordance with paragraphs (p)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, ensure appropriate evaluation, monitoring, and treatment. Suspected or confirmed communicable diseases in animals must be reported to CDC within 24 hours.


(5) A CDC-registered animal care facility must not knowingly release any ill animal from quarantine under paragraph (q)(3) of this section without prior consultation with and written approval from CDC.


(6) Quarantined animals must be housed in such a manner that they do not expose other quarantined animals or non-quarantined animals (including animals other than dogs or cats) to potentially infectious materials, including soiled bedding, caging, and other potentially contaminated items. Animals in quarantine may not be housed together.


(7) If CDC notifies a CDC-registered animal care facility of any evidence that animals have been exposed to a communicable disease, the facility must, at the facility's expense (subject to reimbursement by the importer or carrier (in case of abandonment)), implement or cooperate in the CDC's implementation of additional measures to rule out the spread of suspected communicable disease before releasing an animal or shipment of animals from quarantine, including examination, additional diagnostic procedures, treatment, detention, extended quarantine, isolation, seizure, or destruction of exposed animals.


(8) A CDC-registered animal care facility must establish, implement, and adhere to standard operating procedures for safe handling and necropsy of any animal that dies in quarantine.


(r) *Revocation and reinstatement of a CDC-registered animal care facility's registration.* (1) The Director may revoke a CDC-registered animal care facility's registration if the Director determines that the facility has failed to comply with any applicable provisions of this section, the facility's standard operating procedures, USDA Animal Welfare standards (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3), or other standards as outlined in CDC's *Technical Instructions for CDC-registered Animal Care Facilities.*

(2) CDC will send the CDC-registered animal care facility a notice of revocation stating the grounds upon which the proposed revocation is based.


(3) If the CDC-registered animal care facility wishes to contest the revocation, the facility must file a written response to the notice within five business days after receiving the notice.


(4) As part of the response, a CDC-registered animal care facility may request that the Director review the written record.


(5) If a CDC-registered animal care facility fails to file a response within five business days, all of the grounds listed in the proposed revocation will be deemed admitted, in which case the notice shall constitute final agency action, unless the Secretary, within one business day, decides to excuse the facility's failure to respond on a timely basis.


(6) If a CDC-registered animal care facility's response is timely, the Director will review the registration, the notice of revocation, the response, and make a decision in writing based on the written record.


(7) As soon as practicable after completing the written record review, the Director will issue a decision in writing that shall constitute final agency action, unless the Secretary, within one business day, decides to review the Director's decision. The Director will provide the facility with a copy of the written decision.


(8) The Director may reinstate a revoked registration after inspecting the facility, examining its records, conferring with the facility, and receiving information and assurance from the facility of compliance with the requirements of this section.


(s) *Requirement for the certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form to import foreign-vaccinated dogs from DMRVV high-risk countries.* (1) Importers of foreign-vaccinated dogs from DMRVV high-risk countries must submit the certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form to the CDC-registered animal care facility in order to make a reservation at that facility.


(2) Importers must present documentation confirming the dog's reservation at a CDC-registered animal care facility to the airline prior to boarding and to CBP upon arrival at a U.S. port for admission of foreign-vaccinated dogs from DMRVV high-risk countries.


(3) The certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form must be truthful and accurate, completed in English, and include:


(i) The name of the person importing the dog (consignee), physical address, phone number, email address, passport number, and date of birth;


(ii) The owner's name, phone number, and email address;


(iii) The destination address (physical address) where the dog will reside upon arrival in the United States;


(iv) The dog's name, breed, sex, date of birth or approximate age if the date of birth is unknown, and color or markings of the dog;


(v) Rabies vaccination information for the dog administered within a timeframe and in accordance with the vaccination schedule as specified in CDC technical instructions;


(vi) Rabies vaccine product information (product name, manufacturer, lot number, and product expiration date);


(vii) Rabies vaccine expiration date (date when next vaccine is due), which must be after the dog's date of arrival at a U.S. port;


(viii) Microchip number and microchip implant date, which must be on or before the date of administration of the most recent rabies vaccination included on this form;


(ix) The name, license number or official stamp, address, telephone number, email address, and signature of the authorized veterinarian or official government veterinarian that examined the dog in the exporting country; and


(x) The name, address, official seal or stamp, and signature of an official government veterinarian attesting that the authorized veterinarian is licensed or authorized to practice veterinary medicine in the exporting country and further attesting that the information listed on the form is true and correct.


(4) Importers who fail or refuse to present the certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form or present a form that is untruthful, inaccurate, and incomplete may result in the dog being denied admission and returned to the country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section.


(t) *Requirement for Certification of U.S.-Issued Rabies Vaccination form for importers seeking to import U.S.-vaccinated dogs from DMRVV high-risk countries.* (1) Importers returning to the United States with a U.S.-vaccinated dog that has been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months may present their dog for admission without a rabies serologic test from a CDC-approved laboratory, without the dog undergoing veterinary examination (unless ill, injured, or exposed), and without revaccination against rabies or quarantine at a CDC-registered animal care facility upon arrival under the following circumstances:


(i) The importer presents a certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form that is truthful, complete, and accurate.


(ii) The importer presents a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form that sufficiently and reliably demonstrates that a USDA-licensed rabies vaccine was administered within a timeframe and age parameters as specified in CDC technical instructions.


(2) The certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form must have been completed and endorsed prior to the dog leaving the United States and cannot be completed upon arrival at a U.S. port or after the dog has left the United States.


(3) Importers returning to the United States from a DMRVV high-risk country with their U.S.-vaccinated dog that are unable to meet the requirements of this paragraph shall have the dog treated as if it was vaccinated in a foreign country in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (k) and (s) of this section or, alternatively, have the dog denied admission and returned to the country of departure pursuant to the paragraph (v) of this section.


(4) If an importer fails to immediately (within 24 hours of arrival) arrange for the dog's return to the country of departure, then the animal will be considered abandoned pursuant to paragraph (aa) of this section.


(u) *Requirement for proof that a dog has been only in DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries.* (1) Dogs arriving, including those returning to the United States, from a DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free country may be admitted into the United States subject to the requirements in this section if the importer submits written documentation satisfactory to the Director that for the six months before arrival, the dog has been only in DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries.


(2) For purposes of paragraph (u)(1) of this section, written documentation satisfactory to the Director shall include any one of the following:


(i) A valid certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form if completed in a DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country and the dogs are arriving into the United States from the same DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country as that listed on the form. This form must be completed by an authorized veterinarian, which may include an official government veterinarian, and must be certified by an official government veterinarian in the exporting country;


(ii) A valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form completed by a USDA-accredited veterinarian and endorsed by a USDA official veterinarian;


(iii) A valid USDA export certificate if the certificate is issued to allow the dogs to travel to a DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country and the dogs are returning to the United States from the same DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country as that listed on the export certificate. The form must be completed by a USDA-accredited veterinarian and endorsed by a USDA official veterinarian;


(iv) A valid foreign export certificate from a DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country that has been certified by an official government veterinarian in that country. The export certificate must be accompanied by veterinary records (such as the European Union pet passport) or proof of payment for veterinary services establishing that veterinary services were performed in the exporting country at least six months before traveling to the United States;


(v) A certification of dog arriving from DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country form if accompanied by veterinary records or proof of payment for veterinary services establishing that veterinary services were performed in the same DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country at least six months before travel to the United States. This form must be completed by an authorized veterinarian, which may include an official government veterinarian, and must be certified by an official government veterinarian in the exporting country; or


(vi) Other records or documents satisfactory to the Director that CDC may establish through technical instructions and publish on its website.


(v) *Denial of admission of dogs and cats.* (1) The following categories of animals are inadmissible to the United States:


(i) Any dog arriving from a DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free country without written documentation satisfactory to the Director that the dog has been only in DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries during the six months prior to the attempted entry, or if the Director reasonably suspects fraud.


(ii) Any dog that is not accompanied by a receipt confirming that a CDC dog import form has been submitted to CDC through a CDC-approved system.


(iii) Any dog arriving by air for which a bill of lading, including an air waybill, has not been created by the airline prior to the dog's arrival in the United States (regardless of the value of the shipment) unless the airline transporting the dog has been granted a waiver pursuant to paragraph (dd) of this section and the airline's handling and transport of the dog is consistent with the terms of that waiver.


(iv) Any unvaccinated or foreign-vaccinated dog arriving by land to the United States if the dog has been in a DMRVV high-risk countries within the last six months.


(v) Any unvaccinated or foreign-vaccinated dog arriving by sea to the United States if the dog has been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months, except for a foreign-vaccinated dog qualifying as a service animal and meeting the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(vi) Any animal imported by an importer who refuses to comply with the requirements (if applicable) for disease surveillance screening, microchip scanning, veterinary examination, diagnostics tests to rule out communicable diseases, revaccination, providing proof of sufficient rabies serologic tests, or quarantine (if applicable) at a CDC-registered animal care facility or other CDC-approved facility (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) upon arrival.


(vii) Any dog that has been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months and arrives without a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form or a valid certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form.


(viii) Any foreign-vaccinated dog that has been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months and does not arrive via air at a U.S. airport with a CDC quarantine station and a CDC-registered animal care facility, except for a foreign-vaccinated dog arriving by sea that qualifies as a service animal and meets the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(ix) Any dog imported from a DMRVV high-risk country that arrives without a reservation at a CDC-registered animal care facility (if applicable).


(x) Any dog from a DMRVV-restricted country that arrives without a valid CDC dog import permit.


(xi) Any dog, regardless of country of departure, if the Director reasonably suspects fraud in any documentation required for admission or if such documentation is otherwise untruthful, inaccurate, or incomplete.


(xii) Any animal, regardless of country of departure, that poses a public health risk, including animals that appear unhealthy upon arrival or demonstrate signs or symptoms of communicable disease.


(xiii) Any dog under six months of age that arrives in the United States.


(xiv) Any dog that arrives in the United States without a microchip or without its microchip number documented on the importation paperwork required by CDC.


(2) An importer must meet the admission requirements of all U.S. government agencies for the admission of an animal into the United States. Satisfaction of CDC's requirements for the admission of animals does not fulfill the admission requirements of other U.S. government agencies.


(w) *Dogs and cats awaiting an admissibility determination or return to their country of departure.* (1) Animals arriving by air that are denied admission and awaiting return to their country of departure or awaiting a determination as to their admissibility must be held in a CDC-registered animal care facility or other CDC-approved facility (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) in such a way as to prevent the potential spread of communicable diseases.


(2) An airline must arrange to transport an animal arriving by air to a CDC-registered animal care facility (or other boarding, kennel, or veterinary clinic approved by CDC if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) if the animal is denied admission and is awaiting return to its country of departure or is awaiting a determination of its admissibility. If the animal is apparently healthy, the airline must transport the animal (by a CBP-bonded transporter) within 12 hours of its arrival.


(3) An airline must immediately report an obviously ill or injured animal (*e.g.,* the animal is unable to stand, has difficulty breathing, is bleeding, has broken bones or disfigured limbs, or is experiencing seizures, vomiting, or discharge from the nose, mouth, or eyes) arriving into the United States to the CDC quarantine station of jurisdiction. The airline must immediately arrange to transport an obviously ill or injured animal by a CBP-bonded transporter to a CDC-registered animal care facility or veterinary clinic as directed by CDC.


(4) Animals arriving by sea that are denied admission must remain on the vessel while awaiting return to the country of departure.


(x) *Disposal or disposition of dogs and cats denied admission to the United States.* (1) Animals shall be subject to such additional requirements as authorized under this part or 42 CFR part 70 as may be deemed necessary by the Director to protect the public's health, including suspension of entry under § 71.63.


(2) Animals denied admission to the United States that were transported to the United States via air must be returned by the airline to the country of departure at the importer's expense on the next available outbound flight (no later than 72 hours after arrival), regardless of airline or route, if fit to travel. Pending the animal's return, the animal shall be detained at the importer's expense in the custody of the carrier at a CDC-registered animal care facility (or other boarding, kennel, or veterinary clinic approved by CDC if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available).


(3) Animals denied admission to the United States that were transported to the United States via sea shall be reembarked immediately by the vessel's master or operator and returned to their country of departure on the next voyage.


(4) Animals denied admission to the United States that were transported to the United States via land shall be returned immediately by importer or carrier to their country of departure.


(5) If an animal is not fit to travel, poses a public health risk, or would pose a risk to other animals, then the carrier shall arrange for the animal to be transported to a CDC-registered animal care facility or a CDC-approved veterinary clinic (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) for housing and treatment by a licensed veterinarian until approved for travel by CDC or humanely euthanized (*e.g.,* under circumstances where the animal is fatally ill or injured) by a licensed veterinarian. The importer shall be responsible for all costs associated with the denial, veterinary evaluation, care, or disposal of the animal. If the importer refuses to pay for any costs associated with the denial, evaluation, care, or disposal of the animal, then it will be considered abandoned, and the carrier shall assume custody and financial responsibility for these costs.


(6) If humane euthanasia is recommended by a veterinarian or chosen by an importer or carrier (*e.g.,* under circumstances where the animal is fatally ill or injured), the animal must be euthanized by a U.S.-licensed veterinarian in accordance with American Veterinary Medical Association guidelines. Euthanasia does not relieve carriers or importers of the obligation to arrange and pay for testing and necropsy required by CDC.


(7) The Director may grant temporary extensions of returns for animals that are not fit for travel as determined by a CDC veterinarian, but the importer (or carrier in the case of abandonment) must arrange for the return of the animal to its country of departure as soon as CDC notifies the carrier that the animal is fit for travel.


(8) The requirements of this paragraph shall additionally apply to dogs or cats abandoned by the importer prior to the dogs' or cats' admission into the United States. A dog or cat may be deemed abandoned pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (aa) of this section.


(9) Carriers must provide transportation to/from and holding at a CDC-registered animal care facility or another CDC-approved facility (if a CDC-registered animal care facility is not available) while the animal is pending an admissibility determination, undergoing veterinary evaluation or care, or upon denial of entry. Carriers may require reimbursement from an importer for any costs incurred on behalf of the importer.


(10) Importers must comply with CDC requirements for the return of an animal or for the veterinary assessment of an animal. Refusal to cooperate, including refusal to pay any associated veterinary fees, will result in the animal being considered abandoned by the importer, and custody of the animal will be transferred to the carrier who will assume financial responsibility for costs relating to the denial, evaluation, care, or disposal of the animal.


(11) A carrier may enter into contractual arrangements with an importer or a third party relating to the expenses of returning an animal to its country of departure, for veterinary care, or otherwise disposing of an animal, provided that no government costs are incurred. The return of an animal to its country of departure or the initiation of veterinary care shall not be delayed while the carrier attempts to enter into or negotiate contractual arrangements.


(12) The provisions of this paragraph may be applied to importers of animals and to carriers transporting such animals in circumstances where an animal is denied entry at a land port or seaport of the United States and the animal cannot be immediately returned to its country of departure (*e.g.,* because it is unfit to travel).


(y) *Appeals of CDC denials to admit a dog or a cat upon arrival into the United States.* (1) If CDC denies admission to an animal upon arrival, then the importer may appeal that denial to the Director.


(2) The importer must submit the appeal in writing to the Director, stating the reasons for the appeal and demonstrating that there is a genuine and substantial issue of fact in dispute.


(3) The importer must submit the appeal within one (1) business day of the denial by emailing *CDCAnimalImports@cdc.gov.*

(4) Submitting an appeal will not delay the return of the animal to the country of departure.


(5) The Director will issue a written response to the appeal, which shall constitute final agency action, unless the Secretary, within one (1) business day, decides to review the Director's decision.


(z) *Record of death of dogs and cats en route to the United States and disposition of dead animals.* (1) Carriers shall maintain a record of the death of animals occurring while *en route* to the United States and shall submit the record to the CDC quarantine station of jurisdiction for the U.S. port upon arrival.


(2) Animals that become sick or die *en route* or are identified as sick or dead upon arrival shall be separated from other animals (including animals other than dogs or cats) as soon as the sickness or death is discovered and shall be held in confinement pending any necessary examination as determined by the Director. Sick animals shall be examined pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (j) of this section or disposed of pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (x) of this section.


(3) The carrier shall arrange for any animals that die *en route* to the United States or that die while detained pending determination of their admissibility to undergo a necropsy (gross and histopathologic examination are required), and any subsequent infectious disease testing based on gross or histopathology findings or as determined by CDC. The carrier or CDC-registered animal care facility must contact the CDC quarantine station of jurisdiction prior to transporting an animal for necropsy to determine whether rabies testing is required. In the event an importer abandons an animal, the carrier will become the owner and shall assume responsibility for all expenses described in this paragraph.


(4) The carrier shall send copies of the final necropsy report and all test results to the CDC quarantine station of jurisdiction.


(5) Pursuant to paragraphs (p) and (x) of this section, the importer is responsible for costs associated with the necropsy, testing, and disposal of the body. In the event an importer abandons an animal, then pursuant to paragraph (aa) of this section, the carrier will become the owner and shall assume responsibility for all expenses described in this paragraph.


(aa) *Abandoned shipments of dogs and cats.* (1) In the event an importer abandons an animal under this section, the carrier will become the owner and shall assume responsibility for all expenses described in this section.


(2) An animal shipment will be deemed abandoned under the following circumstances:


(i) when explicitly stated by the importer verbally or in writing to the carrier, CDC, or CBP; or


(ii) if the importer fails to cooperate with or respond to the carrier's attempts to comply with the provisions of this section within 24 hours; or


(iii) if the importer refuses payment within 24 hours for CDC-mandated examinations, testing, holding, or treatment needed to ensure the safe importation of dogs and cats into the United States.


(bb) *Sanitation of cages and containers of dogs and cats.* When the Director finds that the cages or other containers of animals arriving in the United States are in an unsanitary or other condition that may constitute a communicable disease risk, the animals shall not be admitted in such containers unless the carrier has the containers cleaned and disinfected or the animals are removed and placed in clean containers in accordance with USDA and, in the case of airlines, the International Air Transport Association shipping requirements. Discarded containers must be cleaned and disinfected or destroyed in accordance with carrier policies. CDC may require documentation of container disinfection or destruction by the carrier.


(cc) *Requirements for in-transit shipments of dogs and cats.* (1) In-transit shipments of live animals are not eligible for release into the United States and may only be transported as cargo and not as hand-carried baggage or checked/excess baggage.


(2) In-transit shipments must be maintained under continuous confinement with USDA APHIS oversight on board a conveyance until export, or off-loaded and maintained under continuous confinement and APHIS oversight at a USDA APHIS-preapproved holding facility with a CBP-issued FIRMS code while awaiting a connecting conveyance, and then loaded and maintained under USDA APHIS oversight on board the connecting conveyance until export.


(3) The provisions of this section shall apply to animals transiting through the United States from one foreign country to another, except as provided below:


(i) Animals that appear healthy but have been exposed to a sick or dead animal (including an animal other than a dog or cat) suspected of having a communicable disease are not required to undergo examination or tests as provided in paragraph (j) of this section if the Director determines that the conditions under which the animals are being transported afford adequate protection against introduction of communicable disease into the United States.


(ii) The certification of foreign rabies vaccination and microchip form, certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form, certification of dog arriving from DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk country form, or CDC dog import form is not required for dogs that are transported by aircraft and are being transited through the United States if retained in the custody of the airline under conditions that would prevent transmission of communicable diseases.


(iii) There is no minimum age requirement for dogs that are transported by aircraft and are being transited through the United States if retained in the custody of the airline under conditions that would prevent transmission of communicable diseases.


(iv) A microchip is not required for dogs that are transported by aircraft and are being transited through the United States if retained in the custody of the airline under conditions that would prevent transmission of communicable diseases.


(dd) *Bill of lading and other airline requirements for dogs.* (1) Airlines are required to create a bill of lading, which includes air waybills (AWB), for all dogs arriving in the United States prior to arrival. This includes dogs transported as cargo, checked-baggage, or hand-carried baggage.


(2) Airlines that lack the technical ability to generate a bill of lading to transport dogs as checked baggage or as hand-carried baggage may request a waiver from CDC by emailing *cdcanimalimports@cdc.gov.*

(i) The airline's request for a waiver must be accompanied by a written standard operating procedure (SOP) describing how the airline will ensure care, transportation, and housing for any ill, injured, or abandoned animals in the absence of a bill of lading. The SOP must also identify and provide the location of a CDC-registered animal care facility or other suitable alternative approved by CBP and CDC that will provide care and suitable housing for any ill, injured, or abandoned animals prior to any animals being transported to the United States.


(ii) As a condition of granting a waiver, CDC may require the airline to obtain the services of a licensed U.S. customs broker who will be responsible for coordinating on behalf of the airline the entry and clearance of any dogs imported into the United States, including compliance with CDC's requirements relating to the admission of dogs.


(iii) As a condition of granting a waiver, CDC may require the airline to provide a timetable and identify steps that the airline will take to develop the technical capacity to generate an AWB (or another suitable alternative to an AWB) to transport dogs as cargo, checked-baggage, or hand-carried baggage.


(iv) The Director may revoke a waiver granted to an airline upon notice to the airline and a finding that an airline has acted inconsistent with the terms of the waiver, including any provision of its SOP.


(v) CDC may publish additional technical instructions on its website for airlines seeking a waiver from the bill of lading requirement.


(3) Any dog arriving by air for which a bill of lading, including an AWB, has not been created by the airline prior to the dog's arrival in the United States will be denied admission and returned to the country of departure pursuant to paragraph (v) of this section, unless the airline transporting the dog has been granted a waiver and the airline's handling and transport of the dog are consistent with the terms of that waiver.


(4) Airlines must deny boarding to any dogs for which the importer: has not presented to the airline before boarding a receipt confirming submission of the CDC dog import form; if the dogs are scheduled to arrive at a different U.S. port than the one listed on the receipt of the CDC dog import form; or if the dogs presented for travel do not match the description on the receipt of the CDC dog import form.


(5) For U.S.-vaccinated dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months, airlines must deny boarding unless the importer presents prior to boarding a valid certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form or if the dogs presented for travel do not match the description on the certification of U.S.-issued rabies vaccination form.


(6) For foreign-vaccinated dogs that have been in a DMRVV high-risk country within the last six months, airlines must deny boarding unless the importer presents documentation to the airline before boarding of a reservation at a CDC-registered animal care facility and the dog is scheduled to arrive in the United States at the U.S. airport where the CDC-registered animal care facility is located.


(7) For dogs from DMRVV-free or DMRVV low-risk countries, airlines must deny boarding unless the importer before boarding presents documentation as described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (u)(2) demonstrating that the dog is over six months of age, has a microchip, and has been only in DMRVV low-risk or DMRVV-free countries during the last six months. Airlines must also deny boarding if the dog presented for travel does not match the description on the documents presented by the importer for travel.


(8) A representative of an airline transporting live dogs into the United States must be on-site at the U.S. airport and available to coordinate the entry/clearance of the dogs with Federal government officials until all live dogs transported on an arriving flight into the United States have either been cleared for entry or arrangements have been made to transport the dogs to a CDC-registered animal care facility or other facility (*e.g.,* veterinary clinic or kennel) approved by CDC pending an admissibility determination.


(ee) *Order prohibiting carriers from transporting dogs and cats.* (1) If the Director determines that a carrier has endangered the public health of the United States by acting or failing to act to prevent the introduction of DMRVV, as would occur through failure to comply with any applicable provisions of this section, the Director may issue an order revoking the carrier's permission to transport live animals into the United States, which shall be served on the carrier's owner or operator.


(2) The Director may rescind the order after inspecting the carrier's facilities; examining its records; conferring with the carrier's owners or operators, its contractors, or staff; or receiving information and written assurances from the carrier owner or operator that it has taken remedial steps to ensure future compliance with the requirements of this section.


(3) A carrier owner or operator may appeal a revocation of a carrier's permission to transport live animals into the United States. The appeal shall be in writing, addressed to the Director, state the reasons for the appeal, and demonstrate that there is a genuine and substantial issue of fact in dispute. The appeal must be submitted via email to *CDCanimalimports@cdc.gov.*

(4) As soon as practicable after completing the written record review, the Director will issue a decision in writing that shall constitute final agency action, unless the Secretary, within one business day, decides to review the Director's decision. The Director will serve the carrier with a copy of the written decision.


(ff) *Prohibition on imports of dogs from DMRVV-restricted countries.* (1) The Director may prohibit or otherwise restrict the import of dogs into the United States from certain countries designated as DMRVV-restricted countries. CDC will maintain a list of DMRVV-restricted countries based on the countries' prior export of dogs infected with DMRVV to any other countries within a time frame determined by CDC or based on inadequate controls, as determined by CDC, in the countries to monitor and prevent the export of dogs to the United States with falsified or fraudulent rabies vaccine credentials, invalid rabies vaccination certificates, or other fraudulent, inaccurate, or invalid exportation/importation documents.


(2) DMRVV-restricted countries may be subject to additional restrictions, including a complete prohibition on the importation of dogs into the United States from those countries as needed to prevent the reintroduction of DMRVV.


(3) The Director may maintain such additional restrictions or prohibitions in place until the Director is satisfied that the DMRVV-restricted country has established sufficient controls to prevent the reintroduction of DMRVV into the United States, including measures to prevent the use of falsified or fraudulent vaccine credentials or invalid rabies vaccination certificates.


(4) The addition or removal of DMRVV-restricted countries from the list shall be announced through notice in the _Federal Register,_ and a list will be maintained on CDC's website.


(5) Notwithstanding the prohibition on imports of dogs from DMRVV-restricted countries, the Director may allow the importation of dogs for scientific purposes, when used as service animals (as defined in 14 CFR 382.3) for individuals with disabilities, or in furtherance of an important government interest. In such instances CDC will issue a CDC dog import permit for the importation of dogs from DMRVV-restricted countries. Instructions for how to apply for a permit will be included in CDC technical instructions.


(gg) *Request for issuance of additional fines or penalties.* (1) CDC may request that CBP, pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1592 and 19 U.S.C. 1595a, issue additional fines, citations, or penalties to importers, brokers, or carriers when the Director has reason to believe that an importer, broker, or carrier has violated any of the provisions of this section or otherwise engaged in conduct contrary to law.


(2) CDC may request that the U.S. Department of Justice investigate, and if determined appropriate based on the outcome of such investigation, prosecute any person who the Director has reason to believe may have violated Federal law, including by forcibly assaulting, resisting, opposing, impeding, intimidating, or interfering with a U.S. government employee while engaged in or on account of the performance of their official duties in violation of 18 U.S.C. 111, by obstructing an agency proceeding in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1505, or by otherwise engaging in conduct contrary to law.









---

[N] [50 FR 1519, Jan. 11, 1985, as amended at 89 FR 41837, May 13, 2024]






