# § 52.2500   Best available retrofit technology requirements for the Intalco Aluminum Corporation (Intalco Works) primary aluminum plant—Better than BART Alternative.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to the Intalco Aluminum Corporation (Intalco) primary aluminum plant located in Ferndale, Washington and to its successors and/or assignees.


(b) *Better than BART Alternative—Sulfur dioxide* (SO_2_) *emission limit for potlines.* Starting January 1, 2015, SO_2_ emissions from all potlines in aggregate must not exceed a total of 5,240 tons for any calendar year.


(c) *Compliance demonstration.* (1) Intalco must determine on a calendar month basis, SO_2_ emissions using the following formula:


(i) Carbon consumption ratio is the calendar month average of tons of baked anodes consumed per ton of aluminum produced as determined using the baked anode consumption and production records required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(ii) % sulfur in baked anodes is the calendar month average sulfur content as determined in paragraph (d) of this section.


(iii) % sulfur converted to SO_2_ is 95%.


(2) Calendar year SO_2_ emissions shall be calculated by summing the 12 calendar month SO_2_ emissions for the calendar year.


(d) *Emission monitoring.* (1) Intalco must determine the % sulfur of baked anodes using ASTM Method D6376 or an alternative method approved by the EPA Region 10.


(2) Intalco must collect at least four anode core samples during each calendar week.


(3) Calendar month average sulfur content shall be determined by averaging the sulfur content of all samples collected during the calendar month.


(e) *Recordkeeping.* (1) Intalco must record the calendar month SO_2_ emissions and the calendar year SO_2_ emissions determined in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.


(2) Intalco must maintain records of the baked anode consumption and aluminum production data used to develop the carbon consumption ratio used in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(3) Intalco must retain a copy of all calendar month carbon consumption ratio and potline SO_2_ emission calculations.


(4) Intalco must record the calendar month net production of aluminum and tons of aluminum produced each calendar month. Net production of aluminum is the total mass of molten metal produced from tapping all pots in all of the potlines that operated at any time in the calendar month, measured at the casthouse scales and the rod shop scales.


(5) Intalco must record the calendar month average sulfur content of the baked anodes.


(6) Records are to be retained at the facility for at least five years and be made available to the EPA Region 10 upon request.


(f) *Reporting.* (1) Intalco must report the calendar month SO_2_ emissions and the calendar year SO_2_ emissions to the EPA Region 10 at the same time as the annual compliance certification required by the Part 70 operating permit for the Intalco facility is submitted to the Title V permitting authority.


(2) All documents and reports must be sent to the EPA Region 10 electronically, in a format approved by the EPA Region 10, to the following email address: *R10-AirPermitReports@epa.gov.*


---

[N] [79 FR 33453, June 11, 2014]




