# § 158.603   Employee compensation.

(a) *Compensation.* As compensation for service in the DHS-CS, a DHS-CS employee receives a salary as described in paragraph (b) of this section. A DHS-CS employee may also receive additional compensation as described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Salary.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, a DHS-CS employee receives a salary under the salary system described in § 158.610. The Department sets a DHS-CS employee's salary as described in § 158.620, and salary may include a local cybersecurity talent market supplement described in § 158.612. The Department adjusts a DHS-CS employee's salary as described in § 158.621.


(1) *Uncompensated service.* A DHS-CS employee providing uncompensated service described in § 158.523(a)(2) does not receive a salary under this part.


(2) *Advisory appointees.* A DHS-CS advisory appointee receives a salary as described under subpart J of this part.


(c) *Additional compensation.* In alignment with the compensation strategy in § 158.601 and subject to the requirements of this subpart F, the Department may provide the additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to DHS-CS employees, unless a DHS-CS employee is providing uncompensated service under § 158.523(a)(2).


(1) *Types.* Additional compensation under CTMS is:


(i) Recognition under §§ 158.632 through 158.634;


(ii) Other special payments under §§ 158.640 through 158.643; and


(iii) Other types of compensation, including leave and benefits, authorized under §§ 158.650 through 158.654 and provided in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.


(2) *Combining types.* A DHS-CS employee, except such an employee providing uncompensated service and a DHS-CS advisory appointee, may receive any type of additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in combination with any other such type subject to the requirements of this subpart F, and subject to the limit described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(3) *Limit.* Additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is subject to, and may be limited by, the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.


(4) *Advisory appointees.* A DHS-CS advisory appointee may receive additional compensation as described in subpart J of this part.


(5) *Department discretion.* Any payment or nonpayment of additional compensation under this part, or the amount of any such compensation, is under the Department's discretion, and may be reviewable only as provided for under subpart I of this part.






