# ยง 982.204   Waiting list: Administration of waiting list.

(a) *Admission from waiting list.* Except for special admissions, participants must be selected from the PHA waiting list. The PHA must select participants from the waiting list in accordance with admission policies in the PHA Administrative Plan.


(b) *Organization of waiting list.* The PHA must maintain information that permits the PHA to select participants from the waiting list in accordance with the PHA admission policies. The waiting list must contain the following information for each applicant listed:


(1) Applicant name; 


(2) Family unit size (number of bedrooms for which family qualifies under PHA occupancy standards); 


(3) Date and time of application; 


(4) Qualification for any local preference;


(5) Racial or ethnic designation of the head of household. 


(c) *Removing applicant names from the waiting list.* (1) The PHA Administrative Plan must state PHA policy on when applicant names may be removed from the waiting list. The policy may provide that the PHA will remove names of applicants who do not respond to PHA requests for information or updates.


(2) An PHA decision to withdraw from the waiting list the name of an applicant family that includes a person with disabilities is subject to reasonable accommodation in accordance with 24 CFR part 8. If the applicant did not respond to the PHA request for information or updates because of the family member's disability, the PHA must reinstate the applicant in the family's former position on the waiting list.


(d) *Family size.* (1) The order of admission from the waiting list may not be based on family size, or on the family unit size for which the family qualifies under the PHA occupancy policy. 


(2) If the PHA does not have sufficient funds to subsidize the family unit size of the family at the top of the waiting list, the PHA may not skip the top family to admit an applicant with a smaller family unit size. Instead, the family at the top of the waiting list will be admitted when sufficient funds are available. 


(e) *Funding for specified category of waiting list families.* When HUD awards an PHA program funding for a specified category of families on the waiting list, the PHA must select applicant families in the specified category.


(f) *Number of waiting lists.* A PHA must use a single waiting list for admission to its Section 8 tenant-based assistance program. However, the PHA may use a separate single waiting list for such admissions for a county or municipality.



---

[N] [59 FR 36682, July 18, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 34717, July 3, 1995; 63 FR 23860, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 26643, May 14, 1999; 65 FR 16821, Mar. 30, 2000]




