# ยง 660.514   Transferability.

(a) *General.* (1) The SFD will process applications for transferring limited entry permits to a different owner and/or to a different vessel according to this section.


(2) After January 27, 2003, the SFD will issue a limited entry permit to the owner of each vessel permitted to participate in the limited entry fishery for CPS. This permit will replace the existing permit and will include the gross tonnage of the vessel, which will constitute an endorsement for that vessel for the purpose of regulating the transfer of limited entry permits.


(b) *Criteria.* (1) When the aggregate gross tonnage of all vessels participating the limited entry fishery is at or below 5,650.9 mt, a permit may be transferred to a different owner or to a different vessel in the following circumstances only:


(i) A permit may be transferred to a vessel without a permit if the vessel without a permit has a comparable capacity to the capacity on the permit or is less than comparable capacity on the permit.


(ii) When a permit is transferred to a vessel without a permit that has less gross tonnage than that of the permitted vessel, the excess gross tonnage may not be separated from the permit and applied to a second vessel.


(iii) A permit may be transferred to a vessel without a permit that is of greater than comparable capacity only if two or more permits are transferred to the vessel without a permit to equal the gross tonnage of the vessel. The number of permits required will be determined by adding together the comparable capacity of all permits being transferred. Any gross tonnage in excess of that needed for a vessel remains with the permit.


(2) When a vessel with multiple permits leaves the fishery, the permits may be sold separately and applied to other vessels according to the criteria in this section.


(c) *Stipulations.* (1) The gross tonnage endorsement of a permit is integral to the permit for the duration of the permit, regardless of the gross tonnage of any vessel to which the permit is transferred.


(2) Permits may be used only on the vessel for which they are registered by the SFD. All permits that authorize a vessel to operate in the limited entry fishery must be on board the vessel during any fishing trip on which CPS is harvested or is on board.


(3) A permit may be transferred only once during a calendar year.


(d) *Vessel alterations.* (1) A permitted vessel's length, breadth, or depth may be altered to increase the gross tonnage of the vessel only if the aggregate gross tonnage of all vessels participating in the limited entry fishery equals, or is below 5,650.9 mt, and only under the following conditions:


(i) The gross tonnage of the altered vessel, calculated according to the formula in 46 CFR 69.209(a), does not exceed 110 percent of the vessel's original gross tonnage endorsement, and


(ii) A new certificate of documentation is obtained from the U.S. Coast Guard or State. Modifications exceeding 110 percent of the vessel's gross tonnage endorsement will require registration of the vessel under an additional permit or permits or under a permit with a sufficient gross tonnage endorsement.


(2) A copy of the certificate of documentation indicating changes in length, depth, or breadth must be provided to the SFD.


(3) The revised gross tonnage will not be valid as an endorsement until a revised permit is issued by the SFD.


(e) *Applications.* (1) All requests for the transfer of a limited entry permit will be made to the SFD in writing and shall contain the following information:


(i) Name, address, and phone number of the owner of the permitted vessel.


(ii) Name of the permitted vessel and documentation number of the vessel.


(iii) Name, address, and phone number of the owner of the vessel to which the permit is to be transferred.


(iv) Name and documentation number of the vessel to which the permit is to be transferred.


(v) Signature(s) of the owner(s) of the vessels participating in the transfer.


(vi) Any other information that the SFD may request.


(2) No permit transfer is effective until the transfer has been authorized by the SFD.


(f) *Capacity reduction.* (1) When the aggregate gross tonnage of the limited entry fleet reaches 5,933.5 mt, a permit may be transferred to a vessel without a permit only if the vessel without a permit is of the same or less gross tonnage.


(2) When the aggregate gross tonnage of the limited entry fleet reaches 5,933.5 mt, alterations in the length, depth, or breadth of a permitted vessel may not result in an increase in the gross tonnage of the vessel.



---

[N] [68 FR 3823, Jan. 27, 2003]




