# ยง 3011.100   Applicability and Scope.

(a) *Applicability.* The rules in this part apply whenever:


(1) The Postal Service claims that any materials it provides to the Commission in connection with any proceeding or other purpose under title 39 of the U.S. Code, contain non-public information;


(2) Any person other than the Postal Service claims that any materials it provides to the Commission contain non-public information;


(3) The Commission is in the process of determining the appropriate degree of confidentiality to be accorded materials identified by any person to contain non-public information in accordance with these rules; or


(4) The Commission is in the process of determining how to ensure appropriate confidentiality for materials identified to contain non-public information that is furnished to any person in accordance with these rules.


(b) *Scope.* Information includes, but is not limited to, explanations, confirmations, factual descriptions, and data. Document refers to a hard copy or electronic conveyance of information and may be stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation into a reasonably usable form. Documents include, but are not limited to, writings, notes, graphs, charts, data files, emails, drawings, photographs, and images. Things include all matter, other than documents, that convey information. Documents and things shall collectively be referred to as materials.


(c) *Exemption.* Except for the circumstances described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, the rules in this part do not apply to any non-public materials (and the non-public information contained therein) provided to the Commission by any person in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A).


(1) The following persons shall adhere to the requirements of ยง 3011.302 regarding the non-dissemination, use, and care of the non-public materials (and the non-public information contained therein) provided to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A).


(i) Members of the Commission;


(ii) Commission employees; and


(iii) Non-employees who have executed appropriate non-disclosure agreements (such as contractors, attorneys, or subject matter experts) assisting the Commission in carrying out its duties.


(2) Any person that discovers that non-public materials provided to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A) have been inadvertently included within materials that are accessible to the public shall follow the procedures of ยง 3011.205.


(3) Non-public materials provided to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A) are construed to exclude each of the following:


(i) Non-public materials provided by the Postal Service to the Commission pursuant to a subpoena issued in accordance with part 3013 of this chapter;


(ii) Non-public materials filed in response to an information request issued in accordance with ยง 3010.170 of this chapter;


(iii) Non-public materials filed in compliance with any applicable Postal Service reporting required under part 3050 or part 3055 of this chapter; and


(iv) Non-public materials filed in a Commission docket.





---

[N] [83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 37154, June 7, 2023]






