# ยง 79.13   Acceptable methods for disposition of particular material remains.

(a) *Indian lands.* This paragraph applies to material remains that are determined to be of insufficient archeological interest under ยง 79.12(e) and that were excavated or removed from Indian lands after October 31, 1979. Under the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm), these material remains are the property of the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership over the resources. Under the authority of 16 U.S.C. 470dd, disposition of these material remains is subject to the consent of the Indian individual or Indian tribe. The Federal Agency Official must use the following methods of disposal for these material remains in the following order:


(1) Return them to the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership under the Archaeological Resources Protection Act's custody regulations, 43 CFR 7.13(b), 36 CFR 296.13(b), 32 CFR 229.13(b), and 18 CFR 1312.13(b).


(2) If the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership does not wish to accept and take physical custody of the material remains, the Federal Agency Official may otherwise dispose of the material remains using the disposition methods in paragraph (b) of this section after receiving written consent and relinquishment of ownership from the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership.


(b) *Public lands.* This paragraph applies to material remains that are determined to be of insufficient archeological interest under ยง 79.12(e) and that were excavated or removed from public lands that are not Indian lands. As a condition of disposal, the Federal Agency Official will reasonably ensure that material remains from such lands may not be traded, sold, bought, or bartered after disposal. The Federal Agency Official must consider the following methods for disposal of the material remains:


(1) Transfer to another Federal agency.


(2) Convey to a suitable public or tribal scientific or professional repository as defined in ยง 79.4(k) of this part.


(3) Convey to a federally recognized Indian tribe if the material remains were excavated or removed from lands of religious or cultural importance to that tribe and were identified and documented by a Federal land manager under 43 CFR 7.7(b)(1), 36 CFR 296.7(b)(1), 32 CFR 229.7(b)(1), or 18 CFR 1312.7(b)(1).


(4) Convey to a federally recognized Indian tribe from whose aboriginal lands the material remains were removed. Aboriginal occupation may be documented by evidence including, but not limited to, a final judgment of the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Claims, or a treaty, Act of Congress, or Executive Order.


(5) Convey to a federally recognized Indian tribe for the purpose of traditional cultural, educational, or religious practices.


(6) Transfer within the Federal agency for the purpose of education or interpretation, or convey to a suitable institution to be used for public benefit and education including, but not limited to, local historical societies, museums, university or college departments, and schools.


(7) If the Federal Agency Official considers each of these prior methods carefully and is still unable to find an acceptable method of disposition, then the material remains may be destroyed. The Federal Agency Official or their designee must witness and document the destruction, including through photography or video as practicable.




