# § 495.302   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Acceptance documents* mean written evidence of satisfactory completion of an approved phase of work or contract and acceptance thereof by the State agency.


*Acquisition means* to acquire health information technology (HIT) equipment or services for the purpose of implementation and administration under this part from commercial sources or from State or local government resources.


*Acute care hospital* means a health care facility—


(1) Where the average length of patient stay is 25 days or fewer; and


(2) With a CMS certification number (previously known as the Medicare provider number) that has the last four digits in the series 0001-0879 or 1300-1399


*Adopt, implement or upgrade* means—


(1) Acquire, purchase, or secure access to certified EHR technology capable of meeting meaningful use requirements;


(2) Install or commence utilization of certified EHR technology capable of meeting meaningful use requirements; or


(3) Expand the available functionality of certified EHR technology capable of meeting meaningful use requirements at the practice site, including staffing, maintenance, and training, or upgrade from existing EHR technology to certified EHR technology per the ONC EHR certification criteria.


(4) For payment year 2014, the references to “certified EHR technology” in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition are deemed to be references to paragraph (2) of the definition of “Certified EHR Technology” under 45 CFR 170.102 (that is, the definition of “Certified EHR Technology” for FY and CY 2015 and subsequent years).


*Children's hospital* means a separately certified children's hospital, either freestanding or hospital-within-hospital that—


(1) Has a CMS certification number (CCN), (previously known as the Medicare provider number), that has the last 4 digits in the series 3300-3399; or


(2) Does not have a CCN but has been provided an alternative number by CMS for purposes of enrollment in the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program as a children's hospital and;


(3) Predominantly treats individuals under 21 years of age.


*Entities promoting the adoption of certified electronic health record technology* means the State-designated entities that are promoting the adoption of certified EHR technology by enabling oversight of the business, operational and legal issues involved in the adoption and implementation of certified EHR technology or by enabling the exchange and use of electronic clinical and administrative data between participating providers, in a secure manner, including maintaining the physical and organizational relationship integral to the adoption of certified EHR technology by eligible providers.


*Health information technology planning advance planning document (HIT PAPD)* means a plan of action that requests FFP and approval to accomplish the planning necessary for a State agency to determine the need for and plan the acquisition of HIT equipment or services or both and to acquire information necessary to prepare a HIT implementation advanced planning document or request for proposal to implement the State Medicaid HIT plan.


*HIT implementation advance planning document (HIT IAPD)* means a plan of action that requests FFP and approval to acquire and implement the proposed State Medicaid HIT plan services or equipment or both.


*Medicaid information technology architecture (MITA)* is both an initiative and a framework. It is a national framework to support improved systems development and health care management for the Medicaid enterprise. It is an initiative to establish national guidelines for technologies and processes that enable improved program administration for the Medicaid enterprise. The MITA initiative includes an architecture framework, models, processes, and planning guidelines for enabling State Medicaid enterprises to meet common objectives with the framework while supporting unique local needs.


*Medicaid management information system (MMIS)* means a mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system—referred to as Medicaid Management Information Systems (MMIS)—that meets specified requirements and that the Department has found (among other things) is compatible with the claims processing and information retrieval systems used in the administration of the Medicare program. The objectives of the MMIS are to include claims processing and retrieval of utilization and management information necessary for program administration and audit and must coordinate with other mechanized systems and subsystems that perform other functions, such as eligibility determination.


*Needy individuals* mean individuals that meet one of following:


(1) Received medical assistance from Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program. (or a Medicaid or CHIP demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act).


(2) Were furnished uncompensated care by the provider.


(3) Were furnished services at either no cost or reduced cost based on a sliding scale determined by the individuals' ability to pay.


*Patient volume* means the minimum participation threshold (as described at § 495.304(c) through (e)) that is estimated through a numerator and denominator, consistent with the SMHP, and that meets the requirements of § 495.306.


*Practices predominantly* means an EP for whom the clinical location for over 50 percent of his or her total patient encounters over a period of 6 months (within the most recent calendar year or, as an optional State alternative beginning for payment year 2013, within the 12-month period preceding attestation)occurs at a federally qualified health center or rural health clinic.


*Service oriented architecture or service component based architecture* means organizing and developing information technology capabilities as collaborating services that interact with each other based on open standards.


*State Medicaid health information technology plan (SMHP)* means a document that describes the State's current and future HIT activities.


*State self-assessment* means a process that a State uses to review its strategic goals and objectives, measure its current business processes and capabilities against the (MITA) business capabilities and ultimately develops target capabilities to transform its Medicaid enterprise to be consistent with the MITA principles.



---

[N] [75 FR 44565, July 28, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 54160, Sept. 4, 2012; 79 FR 52933, Sept. 4, 2014]




