# § 160.151-29   Additional approval tests for SOLAS A and SOLAS B inflatable liferafts.

To verify compliance with the requirements of IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.3.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart), the following test must be conducted for SOLAS A and SOLAS B inflatable liferafts in addition to those required by § 160.151-27 and IMO Revised recommendation on testing, as amended by Resolution MSC.295(87) (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart:


(a) *Test of filling time for stability appendages.* A representative sample of each type and size of stability appendage to be fitted to a liferaft must be tested as follows:


(1) The appendage must be attached to a testing jig similar in material and construction to the appendage's intended location on a liferaft. The method of attachment must be the same as used on a liferaft. The appendage and jig must be attached to a scale capable of recording peak readings, and suspended over a pool of calm water. The dry weight must be recorded.


(2) The appendage and jig must then be quickly lowered into the water until the appendage is completely submerged. When the appendage has been in the water for 25 seconds, it must be smoothly lifted completely out of the water, and the peak weight after the appendage is removed from the water recorded.


(3) The difference in weights measured according to paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section must be at least 60 percent of the appendage's volume, calculated in accordance with § 160.151-17(a)(2)(i).


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [CGD 85-205, 62 FR 25547, May 9, 1997, as amended by USCG-1998-4442, 63 FR 52192, Sept. 30, 1998; USCG-2010-0048, 76 FR 62999, Oct. 11, 2011; 77 FR 9865, Feb. 21, 2012]




