# ยง 990.6   Violations of State and Tribal plans.

(a) *Producer violations.* Producer violations of USDA-approved State and Tribal hemp production plans shall be subject to enforcement in accordance with the terms of this section.


(b) *Negligent violations.* Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to negligent producer violations as defined under this part. Producers shall not receive more than one negligent violation per growing season. Negligent violations shall include:


(1) Failure to provide a legal description of land on which the producer produces hemp;


(2) Failure to obtain a license or other required authorization from the State department of agriculture or Tribal government, as applicable; or


(3) Production of cannabis with a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level. Hemp producers do not commit a negligent violation under this paragraph (b)(3) if they make reasonable efforts to grow hemp and the cannabis (marijuana) does not have a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than 1.0 percent on a dry weight basis.


(c) *Corrective action for negligent violations.* Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall provide for the correction of negligent violations. Each corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, the following terms:


(1) A reasonable date by which the producer shall correct the negligent violation.


(2) A requirement that the producer periodically report to the State department of agriculture or Tribal government, as applicable, on its compliance with the State or Tribal plan and corrective action plan for a period of not less than the next 2 years from the date of the negligent violation.


(3) A producer that negligently violates a State or Tribal plan approved under this part shall not as a result of that violation be subject to any criminal enforcement action by the Federal, State, Tribal, or local government.


(4) A producer that negligently violates a State or Tribal plan three times during a 5-year period shall be ineligible to produce hemp for a period of 5 years beginning on the date of the third violation.


(5) The State or Indian Tribe shall conduct an inspection to determine if the corrective action plan has been implemented as submitted.


(d) *Culpable violations.* Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to producer violations made with a culpable mental state greater than negligence, including that:


(1) If the State or Tribal government determines that a producer has violated the plan with a culpable mental state greater than negligence, the State or Tribal government, as applicable, shall immediately report the producer to:


(i) The U.S. Attorney General; and


(ii) The chief law enforcement officer of the State or Indian Tribe, as applicable.


(2) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to culpable violations.


(e) *Felonies.* Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to felonies. Such provisions shall state that:


(1) A person with a State or Federal felony conviction relating to a controlled substance may not participate in the plan and may not produce hemp under the State or Tribal plan for 10 years from the date of the conviction. An exception applies to a person who was lawfully growing hemp under section 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940) before December 20, 2018, and whose conviction also occurred before that date.


(2) The State or Tribal plan shall define who is participating in the plan or program and is subject to the felony conviction restriction for purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. To determine whether a person is subject to the felony conviction restriction, the State or Tribe much obtain a criminal history report for that person. The State or Indian Tribe may require additional reports or checks as it deems necessary.


(3) For each license or authorization that the State or Indian Tribe issues, its plan must identify at least one individual as participating in the plan and for whom it will obtain a criminal history report to determine eligibility under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(f) *False statement.* Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall state that any person who materially falsifies any information contained in an application to participate in such program shall be ineligible to participate in that program.


(g) *Appeals.* For States and Indian Tribes who wish to appeal an adverse action, subpart D of this part will apply.




