# § 142.47   Training center instructor eligibility requirements.

(a) A certificate holder may not employ a person as an instructor in a flight training course that is subject to approval by the Administrator unless that person—


(1) Is at least 18 years of age; 


(2) Is able to read, write, and speak and understand in the English language; 




(3) If instructing in an aircraft in flight, is qualified in accordance with subpart H of part 61 of this chapter;


(4) Satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section; and 


(5) Meets at least one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section:


(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, meets the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.129(a), (b), (c), or (e) of this chapter, as applicable, excluding the required hours of instruction in preparation for the commercial pilot practical test, or holds a commercial pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings;


(ii) Meets the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159, § 61.161, or § 61.163 of this chapter, as applicable, or holds an unrestricted airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings, if instructing:


(A) In a flight simulation training device that represents an airplane or rotorcraft requiring a type rating, a powered-lift over 12,500 pounds, or a turbojet powered powered-lift, except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, or


(B) In a curriculum leading to the issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate or an added rating to an airline transport pilot certificate.


(iii) Is employed as a flight simulator instructor or a flight training device instructor for a training center providing instruction and testing to meet the requirements of part 61 of this chapter on August 1, 1996.


(iv) A person employed as an instructor and providing training in an FSTD that represents a rotorcraft requiring a type rating is not required to meet the aeronautical experience requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section and may instead meet the experience requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section if:


(A) The person meets the experience requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section;


(B) The person is not providing training in a curriculum leading to the issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate or an added rating to an airline transport pilot certificate, and


(C) The person was employed and met the remaining requirements of this section on March 21, 2025.


(b) A training center must designate each instructor in writing to instruct in each approved course, prior to that person functioning as an instructor in that course. 


(c) Prior to initial designation, each instructor shall: 


(1) Complete at least 8 hours of ground training on the following subject matter: 


(i) Instruction methods and techniques. 


(ii) Training policies and procedures. 


(iii) The fundamental principles of the learning process. 


(iv) Instructor duties, privileges, responsibilities, and limitations. 


(v) Proper operation of simulation controls and systems. 


(vi) Proper operation of environmental control and warning or caution panels. 


(vii) Limitations of simulation. 


(viii) Minimum equipment requirements for each curriculum. 


(ix) Revisions to the training courses. 


(x) Cockpit resource management and crew coordination. 


(2) Satisfactorily complete a written test—


(i) On the subjects specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and 


(ii) That is accepted by the Administrator as being of equivalent difficulty, complexity, and scope as the tests provided by the Administrator for the applicable flight instructor and instrument flight instructor knowledge tests to the aircraft category in which they are instructing.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 26933, 61 FR 34562, July 2, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 142-2, 62 FR 68137, Dec. 30, 1997; FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. No. 142-11, 89 FR 92488, Nov. 21, 2024; Amdt. No. 142-11A, 90 FR 216, Jan. 3, 2025]




