# § 26.1   What terms do I need to know?

As used in this part:


*Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Gainful Employment* means work resulting in self-sufficiency.


*Indian* means any person who is a member of a federally recognized tribe, including Alaska Natives.


*Individual Self-Sufficiency Plan (ISP)* means a written plan designed to meet the goal of employment through specific actions that meet the needs of the individual. The plan is jointly developed and is signed by both the applicant and the servicing office. The ISP addresses the client's barriers to employment and a plan of action to address barriers.


*Must* means a mandatory act or requirement.


*On or Near Reservation* means those areas or communities adjacent or contiguous to reservations, or service areas where Job Training and Placement programs are provided upon approval of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs or his designated representative. For purposes of this program and services, Alaska is included in this definition.


*On-the-Job-Training (OJT)* means a written agreement for an employer to provide training to a participant who engages in productive work that provides knowledge or skills essential to the full and adequate performance of the job. The employer receives reimbursement from the Job Training Program for the wage rate of the participant. OJT may be used to meet the goal(s) in the participant's ISP, as long as it does not exceed 24 months.


*Permanent Employment* means a year-round job or one that re-occurs seasonally, lasting at least 90 days per work season.


*Service Area* means a location agreed to by the tribe with the Bureau to provide Job Training and Placement Services.


*Servicing Office* means the Bureau office or the office of the tribal service provider that administers the Job Training and Placement Program.


*Tribal Governing Body* means the recognized entity empowered to exercise governmental authority over a federally recognized tribe.


*Tribal Service Provider* means a tribe or tribal organization that administers the Job Training and Placement Program pursuant to Public Law 93-638 or Public Law 102-477.


*Tribe* means any tribal entity listed in the _Federal Register_ notice that the Secretary of the Interior publishes under Public Law 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791.


*Underemployed* means an individual who is working but whose income is insufficient to meet essential needs.


*Unemployed* means an individual who is not currently working or employed.


*Unmet need* means the difference between available resources and the cost associated with finding gainful employment.


*Vocational Training* means technical training that leads to permanent and gainful employment.


*We*, *us*, or *our* means the Secretary of the Interior, or an official in the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, or an official in the Bureau of Indian Affairs to whom the Secretary has delegated authority.




