# § 8.6   Administrative provisions.

(a) *General.* The Act makes applicable the provisions including penalties of sections 49 and 50 of Title 15, United States Code, to the jurisdiction, powers and duties of the Administrator under this Act, and to any person (whether or not a corporation) subject to the provisions of law administered by the Administrator under this Act. The Act also provides that the Administrator is authorized to require, in such manner and such form as he or she shall prescribe, such reports as are necessary to carry out the powers and duties under this chapter.


(b) *Examination and subpoena.* Any appropriate TTB officer shall at all reasonable times have access to, for the purpose of examination, and the right to copy any documentary evidence of any person, partnership, or corporation being investigated or proceeded against. An appropriate TTB officer shall also have the power to require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all such documentary evidence relating to any matter under investigation, upon a satisfactory showing the requested evidence may reasonably be expected to yield information relevant to any matter being investigated under the Act.


(c) *Reports required by the appropriate TTB officer*—(1) *General.* The appropriate TTB officer may, as part of a trade practice investigation of an industry member, require such industry member to submit a written report containing information on sponsorships, advertisements, promotions, and other activities pertaining to its business subject to the Act conducted by, or on behalf of, or benefiting the industry member.


(2) *Preparation.* The report will be prepared by the industry member in letter form, executed under the penalties of perjury, and will contain the information specified by the appropriate TTB officer. The period covered by the report will not exceed three years.


(3) *Filing.* The report will be filed in accordance with the instructions of the appropriate TTB officer.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-364, 60 FR 20425, Apr. 26, 1995. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-428, 65 FR 52020, Aug. 28, 2000]




