# ยง 550.232   What actions will BOEM take after the EP is deemed submitted?

(a) *State and CZMA consistency reviews.* Within 2 working days after deeming your EP submitted under ยง 550.231, the Regional Supervisor will use receipted mail or alternative method to send a public information copy of the EP and its accompanying information to the following:


(1) *The Governor of each affected State.* The Governor has 21 calendar days after receiving your deemed-submitted EP to submit comments. The Regional Supervisor will not consider comments received after the deadline.


(2) *The CZMA agency of each affected State.* The CZMA consistency review period under section 307(c)(3)(B)(ii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(ii)) and 15 CFR 930.78 begins when the State's CZMA agency receives a copy of your deemed-submitted EP, consistency certification, and required necessary data and information (see 15 CFR 930.77(a)(1)).


(b) *BOEM compliance review.* The Regional Supervisor will review the exploration activities described in your proposed EP to ensure that they conform to the performance standards in ยง 550.202.


(c) *BOEM environmental impact evaluation.* The Regional Supervisor will evaluate the environmental impacts of the activities described in your proposed EP and prepare environmental documentation under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*) and the implementing regulations (40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508).


(d) *Amendments.* During the review of your proposed EP, the Regional Supervisor may require you, or you may elect, to change your EP. If you elect to amend your EP, the Regional Supervisor may determine that your EP, as amended, is subject to the requirements of ยง 550.231.




