# § 4100.0-5   Definitions.

Whenever used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply:


The *Act* means the Taylor Grazing Act of June 28, 1934, as amended (43 U.S.C. 315, 315a-315r).


*Active use* means that portion of the grazing preference that is:


(1) Available for livestock grazing use under a permit or lease based on livestock carrying capacity and resource conditions in an allotment; and


(2) Not in suspension.


*Activity plan* means a plan for managing a resource use or value to achieve specific objectives. For example, an allotment management plan is an activity plan for managing livestock grazing use to improve or maintain rangeland conditions. 


*Actual use* means where, how many, what kind or class of livestock, and how long livestock graze on an allotment, or on a portion or pasture of an allotment. 


*Actual use report* means a report of the actual livestock grazing use submitted by the permittee or lessee.


*Affiliate* means an entity or person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, an applicant, permittee or lessee. The term “control” means having any relationship which gives an entity or person authority directly or indirectly to determine the manner in which an applicant, permittee or lessee conducts grazing operations. 


*Allotment* means an area of land designated and managed for grazing of livestock.


*Allotment management plan (AMP)* means a documented program developed as an activity plan, consistent with the definition at 43 U.S.C. 1702(k), that focuses on, and contains the necessary instructions for, the management of livestock grazing on specified public lands to meet resource condition, sustained yield, multiple use, economic and other objectives. 


*Animal unit month (AUM)* means the amount of forage necessary for the sustenance of one cow or its equivalent for a period of 1 month.


*Annual rangelands* means those designated areas in which livestock forage production is primarily attributable to annual plants and varies greatly from year to year. 


*Authorized officer* means any person authorized by the Secretary to administer regulations in this part.


*Base property* means: (1) Land that has the capability to produce crops or forage that can be used to support authorized livestock for a specified period of the year, or (2) water that is suitable for consumption by livestock and is available and accessible, to the authorized livestock when the public lands are used for livestock grazing.


*Cancelled or cancellation* means a permanent termination of a grazing permit or grazing lease and grazing preference, or free-use grazing permit or other grazing authorization, in whole or in part.


*Class of livestock* means ages and/or sex groups of a kind of livestock.


*Consultation, cooperation, and coordination* means interaction for the purpose of obtaining advice, or exchanging opinions on issues, plans, or management actions. 


*Control* means being responsible for and providing care and management of base property and/or livestock. 


*District* means the specific area of public lands administered by a District Manager or a Field Manager.


*Ephemeral rangelands* means areas of the Hot Desert Biome (Region) that do not consistently produce enough forage to sustain a livestock operation, but from time to time produce sufficient forage to accommodate livestock grazing.


*Grazing district* means the specific area within which the public lands are administered under section 3 of the Act. Public lands outside grazing district boundaries are administered under section 15 of the Act.


*Grazing fee year* means the year, used for billing purposes, which begins on March 1, of a given year and ends on the last day of February of the following year.


*Grazing lease* means a document that authorizes grazing use of the public lands under Section 15 of the Act. A grazing lease specifies grazing preference and the terms and conditions under which lessees make grazing use during the term of the lease.


*Grazing permit* means a document that authorizes grazing use of the public lands under Section 3 of the Act. A grazing permit specifies grazing preference and the terms and conditions under which permittees make grazing use during the term of the permit.


*Grazing preference* or *preference* means the total number of animal unit months on public lands apportioned and attached to base property owned or controlled by a permittee, lessee, or an applicant for a permit or lease. Grazing preference includes active use and use held in suspension. Grazing preference holders have a superior or priority position against others for the purpose of receiving a grazing permit or lease.


*Interested public* means an individual, group, or organization that has:


(1)(i) Submitted a written request to BLM to be provided an opportunity to be involved in the decisionmaking process as to a specific allotment, and


(ii) Followed up that request by submitting written comment as to management of a specific allotment, or otherwise participating in the decisionmaking process as to a specific allotment, if BLM has provided them an opportunity for comment or other participation; or


(2) Submitted written comments to the authorized officer regarding the management of livestock grazing on a specific allotment.


*Land use plan* means a resource management plan, developed under the provisions of 43 CFR part 1600, or a management framework plan. These plans are developed through public participation in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C 1701 *et seq.*) and establish management direction for resource uses of public lands. 


*Livestock* or *kind of livestock* means species of domestic livestock—cattle, sheep, horses, burros, and goats.


*Livestock carrying capacity* means the maximum stocking rate possible without inducing damage to vegetation or related resources. It may vary from year to year on the same area due to fluctuating forage production.


*Monitoring* means the periodic observation and orderly collection of data to evaluate:


(1) Effects of management actions; and


(2) Effectiveness of actions in meeting management objectives.


*Preference* means grazing preference (see definition of “grazing preference”).


*Public lands* means any land and interest in land outside of Alaska owned by the United States and administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Land Management, except lands held for the benefit of Indians.


*Range improvement* means an authorized physical modification or treatment which is designed to improve production of forage; change vegetation composition; control patterns of use; provide water; stabilize soil and water conditions; restore, protect and improve the condition of rangeland ecosystems to benefit livestock, wild horses and burros, and fish and wildlife. The term includes, but is not limited to, structures, treatment projects, and use of mechanical devices or modifications achieved through mechanical means. 


*Rangeland studies* means any study methods accepted by the authorized officer for collecting data on actual use, utilization, climatic conditions, other special events, and trend to determine if management objectives are being met.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized officer.


*Service area* means the area that can be properly grazed by livestock watering at a certain water. 


*State Director* means the State Director, Bureau of Land Management, or his or her authorized representative.


*Supplemental feed* means a feed which supplements the forage available from the public lands and is provided to improve livestock nutrition or rangeland management.


*Suspension* means the withholding from active use, through a decision issued by the authorized officer or by agreement, of part or all of the grazing preference specified in a grazing permit or lease.


*Temporary nonuse* means that portion of active use that the authorized officer authorizes not to be used, in response to an application made by the permittee or lessee.


*Trend* means the direction of change over time, either toward or away from desired management objectives. 


*Unauthorized leasing and subleasing* means—


(1) The lease or sublease of a Federal grazing permit or lease, associated with the lease or sublease of base property, to another party without a required transfer approved by the authorized officer; 


(2) The lease or sublease of a Federal grazing permit or lease to another party without the assignment of the associated base property; 


(3) Allowing another party, other than sons and daughters of the grazing permittee or lessee meeting the requirements of § 4130.7(f), to graze on public lands livestock that are not owned or controlled by the permittee or lessee; or 


(4) Allowing another party, other than sons and daughters of the grazing permittee or lessee meeting the requirements of § 4130.7(f), to graze livestock on public lands under a pasturing agreement without the approval of the authorized officer. 


*Utilization* means the portion of forage that has been consumed by livestock, wild horses and burros, wildlife and insects during a specified period. The term is also used to refer to the pattern of such use. 



---

[N] [43 FR 29067, July 5, 1978, as amended at 46 FR 5788, Jan. 19, 1981; 53 FR 10232, Mar. 29, 1988; 60 FR 9961, Feb. 22, 1995; 71 FR 39503, July 12, 2006]




