# 13.302-5   Clauses.

(a) Each purchase order (and each purchase order modification (see 13.302-3)) shall incorporate all clauses prescribed for the particular acquisition.


(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.213-2, Invoices, in purchase orders that authorize advance payments (see 31 U.S.C. 3324(d)(2)) for subscriptions or other charges for newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or other publications (*i.e.,* any publication printed, microfilmed, photocopied, or magnetically or otherwise recorded for auditory or visual usage).


(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.213-3, Notice to Supplier, in unpriced purchase orders.


(d)(1) The contracting officer may use the clause at 52.213-4, Terms and Conditions—Simplified Acquisitions (Other Than Commercial Products and Commercial Services), in simplified acquisitions exceeding the micro-purchase threshold that are for other than commercial products or commercial services (see 12.301).


(2) The clause—


(i) Is a compilation of the most commonly used clauses that apply to simplified acquisitions; and


(ii) May be modified to fit the individual acquisition to add other needed clauses, or those clauses may be added separately. Modifications (*i.e.,* additions, deletions, or substitutions) must not create a void or internal contradiction in the clause. For example, do not add an inspection and acceptance or termination for convenience requirement unless the existing requirement is deleted. Also, do not delete a paragraph without providing for an appropriate substitute.




(3)(i) When an acquisition for supplies for use within the United States cannot be set aside for small business concerns and trade agreements apply (see subpart 25.4), substitute the clause at  52.225-3, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act, used with the appropriate Alternate (see 25.1101(b)(1)), instead of the clause at 52.225-1, Buy American-Supplies.




(ii) When acquiring supplies for use outside the United States, delete clause 52.225-1 from the clause list at 52.213-4(b).




(4) When the senior procurement executive allows for application of an alternate domestic content test for the contract in accordance with 25.101(d), so that the initial domestic content threshold will apply to the entire period of performance, the contracting officer shall fill in the 52.213-4(b)(1)(xviii)(B) for 52.225-1 Alternate I as follows: For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded in calendar year 2022 or 2023, the contracting officer shall insert “60” in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of domestic end product. For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded in calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer shall insert “65”. For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the contracting officer shall insert “75”.





---

[N] [62 FR 64917, Dec. 9, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 72418, Dec. 27, 1999; 67 FR 21534, Apr. 30, 2002; 69 FR 1053, Jan. 7, 2004; 79 FR 24201, Apr. 29, 2014; 86 FR 61025, Nov. 4, 2021; 87 FR 12790, Mar. 7, 2022; 87 FR 73891, Dec. 1, 2022; 89 FR 101831, Dec. 16, 2024]




