# ยง 535.215   Direction involving other properties in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest held by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States in possession or control of properties, as defined in ยง 535.333 of this part, not including funds and securities owned by Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, are licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such properties held on January 18, 1981 as directed after that day by the Government of Iran, acting through its authorized agent. Such directions shall include arrangements for payment of the costs of transporting the properties, unless the possessors of the properties were required to pay such costs by contract or applicable law on January 19, 1981. Except where specifically stated, this license, authorization and direction does not relieve persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States from existing legal requirements other than those based upon the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.


(b) Any properties subject to a valid attachment, injunction or other like proceeding or process not affected by ยง 535.218 need not be transferred as otherwise required by this section.


(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, including agencies, instrumentalities and entities controlled by the Government of Iran, who have possession, custody or control of blocked tangible property covered by ยง 535.201, shall not transfer such property without a specific Treasury license, if the export of such property requires a specific license or authorization pursuant to the provisions of any of the following acts, as amended, or regulations in force with respect to them: the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2403, *et seq.,* the Aims Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2751, *et seq.,* the Atomic Energy Act, 42 U.S.C. 2011, *et seq.,* or any other act prohibiting the export of such property, except as licensed.



---

[N] [46 FR 14334, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 26477, May 13, 1981; 49 FR 21322, May 21, 1984; 66 FR 38554, July 25, 2001]




