# § 520.88b   Amoxicillin trihydrate for oral suspension.

(a) *Specifications.* When reconstituted, each milliliter contains amoxicillin trihydrate equivalent to 50 milligrams (mg) amoxicillin.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(1) *Conditions of use*—(i) *Dogs*—(A) *Amount.* Administer orally 5 mg per pound (/lb) of body weight, twice a day for 5 to 7 days.


(B) *Indications for use.* Treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of organisms as follows: respiratory tract (tonsillitis, tracheobronchitis) caused by *Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *Escherichia coli,* and *Proteus mirabilis;* genitourinary tract (cystitis) caused by *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *E. coli,* and *P. mirabilis;* gastrointestinal tract (bacterial gastroenteritis) caused by *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *E. coli,* and *P. mirabilis;* bacterial dermatitis caused by *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., and *P. mirabilis;* and soft tissues (abscesses, lacerations, and wounds) caused by *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *E. coli,* and *P. mirabilis.*

(C) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(ii) *Cats*—(A) *Amount.* Administer orally 5 to 10 mg/lb of body weight, once daily for 5 to 7 days.


(B) *Indications for use.* Treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of organisms as follows: upper respiratory tract due to *Staphylococcus* spp., *Streptococcus* spp., *Haemophilus* spp., *E. coli, Pasteurella* spp., and *P. mirabilis;* genitourinary tract (cystitis) due to *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *E. coli, P. mirabilis,* and *Corynebacterium* spp.; gastrointestinal tract due to *E. coli, Proteus* spp., *Staphylococcus* spp., and *Streptococcus* spp.; skin and soft tissue (abscesses, lacerations, and wounds) due to *Staphylococcus* spp., *Streptococcus* spp., *E. coli,* and *Pasteurella multocida.*

(C) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 000856 and 051311 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(1) *Conditions of use.**Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* Administer orally 5 mg/lb of body weight, twice a day for 5 to 7 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Treatment of bacterial dermatitis due to *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *Staphylococcus* spp., and *E. coli,* and soft tissue infections (abscesses, wounds, lacerations) due to *S. aureus, Streptococcus* spp., *E. coli, P. mirabilis* and *Staphylococcus* spp.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [57 FR 37319, Aug. 18, 1992; 57 FR 42623, Sept. 15, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 55658, Nov. 2, 1995; 62 FR 13302, Mar. 20, 1997; 67 FR 67521, Nov. 6, 2002; 68 FR 54658, Sept. 18, 2003; 68 FR 55824, Sept. 29, 2003; 79 FR 28816, May 20, 2014; 81 FR 17607, Mar. 30, 2016]




