# § 4284.520   Applicant eligibility.

(a) *Eligible Applicants.* Applicants are eligible for assistance through this program if they meet the following requirements:


(1) *Applicant type.* A Nonprofit Institution.


(2) *Applicant location.* Applicant must be located in a State.


(3) *Unique entity identifier (UEI).* Applicants must have a UEI and active registration through the System for Award Management (SAM) at SAM.gov unless exempt under 2 CFR 25.110.


(4) *Multiple grant eligibility.* An Applicant may submit only one application in response to a solicitation. All applications submitted, regardless of the Applicant entity name, that include the same Executive Director, employees, Board, advisory boards or committees of an existing Center or a majority thereof will be determined ineligible for funding.


(b) *Ineligible Applicants.* Applicants are ineligible for assistance through this program if one or more of the following occurs:


(1) The Applicant is an individual, for-profit entity, or Public Body.


(2) The Applicant is debarred or suspended or is otherwise excluded from, or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs under Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension.” See 2 CFR part 417 for more information.


(3) The Applicant has an outstanding judgment obtained against the organization by the United States in a Federal Court (other than United States Tax Court).


(4) The Applicant is delinquent on the payment of Federal income taxes.


(5) The Applicant is delinquent on Federal debt.


(6) The Applicant has been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the past 24 months.


(7) The Applicant has unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.


(8) The Applicant has an award through this program that is not scheduled to end until after September 30 (for awards that began the preceding October 1) of the current Federal fiscal year, or December 31 (for awards that began the preceding January 1) of the current calendar year.






