# ยง 90.523   Eligibility.

This section implements the definition of public safety services contained in 47 U.S.C. 337(f)(1). The following are eligible to hold Commission authorizations for systems operating in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands:


(a) *State or local government entities.* Any territory, possession, state, city, county, town, or similar State or local governmental entity is eligible to hold authorizations in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands.


(b) *Nongovernmental organizations.* A nongovernmental organization (NGO) that provides services, the sole or principal purpose of which is to protect the safety of life, health, or property, is eligible to hold an authorization for a system operating in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands for transmission or reception of communications essential to providing such services if (and only for so long as) the NGO applicant/licensee:


(1) Has the ongoing support (to operate such system) of a state or local governmental entity whose mission is the oversight of or provision of services, the sole or principal purpose of which is to protect the safety of life, health, or property; 


(2) Operates such authorized system solely for transmission of communication essential to providing services the sole or principal purpose of which is to protect the safety of life, health, or property; and


(3) All applications submitted by NGOs must be accompanied by a new, written certification of support (for the NGO applicant to operate the applied-for system) by the state or local governmental entity referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(c) *All NGO authorizations are conditional.* NGOs assume all risks associated with operating under conditional authority. Authorizations issued to NGOs to operate systems in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands include the following condition: If at any time the supporting governmental entity (see paragraph (b)(1) of this section) notifies the Commission in writing of such governmental entity's termination of its authorization of a NGO's operation of a system in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands, the NGO's application shall be dismissed automatically or, if authorized by the Commission, the NGO's authorization shall terminate automatically.


(d) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section notwithstanding, no entity is eligible to hold an authorization for a system operating in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands on the basis of services, the sole or principal purpose of which is to protect the safety of life, health or property, that such entity makes commercially available to the public.


(e) A nationwide license for the 758-769 MHz and 788-799 MHz bands shall be issued to the First Responder Network Authority.



---

[N] [63 FR 58651, Nov. 2, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 53645, Sept. 5, 2000; 72 FR 48860, Aug. 24, 2007; 79 FR 600, Jan. 6, 2014; 81 FR 66832, Sept. 29, 2016]




