# § 21.7644   Overpayments.

(a) *Prevention of overpayments.* In administering benefits payable under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606, VA will apply the provisions of §§ 21.4008 and 21.4009 of this part in the same manner as they are applied in the administration of 38 U.S.C. chapters 34 and 36. See § 21.7633.


(b) *Penalties are not overpayments.* The Secretary concerned may require a refund from an individual who fails to participate satisfactorily in required training as a member of the Selected Reserve. This refund is subject to waiver by the Secretary. However, this refund—


(1) Is not an overpayment for VA purposes, and


(2) Is not subject to waiver by VA under § 1.957 of this chapter.


(c) *Liability for overpayments.* (1) The amount of the overpayment of educational assistance paid to a reservist constitutes a liability of that reservist unless—


(i) The overpayment is waived as provided in § 1.957 of this chapter, or


(ii) The overpayment results from an administrative error or an error in judgment. See § 21.7635(o) of this part.


(2) The amount of the overpayment of educational assistance paid to a reservist constitutes as liability of the educational institution if VA determines that the overpayment was made as the result of—


(i) Willful or negligent false certification by the educational institution, or


(ii) Willful or negligent failure to certify excessive absences from a course, or discontinuance or interruption of a course by the reservist.


(d) *Waiver of recovery of overpayments.* (1) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section in determining whether an overpayment should be waived or recovered from a reservist, VA will apply the provisions of § 1.957 of this chapter.


(2) In determining whether an overpayment should be recovered from an educational institution, VA will apply the provisions of § 21.4009(a)(2), (3), (4), and (5), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) of this part to overpayments of educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 in the same manner as they are applied to overpayments of educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapters 34 and 36.



---

[N] [53 FR 34740, Sept. 8, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 20729, May 8, 1996]




