# § 3430.702   Definitions.

The definitions specific to BRDI are from the authorizing legislation, the National Program Leadership of NIFA, and the Department of Energy. The definitions applicable to the program under this subpart include:


*Advanced Biofuel* means fuel derived from renewable biomass other than corn kernel starch, including:


(1) Biofuel derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin;


(2) Biofuel derived from sugar and starch (other than ethanol derived from corn kernel starch);


(3) Biofuel derived from waste material, including crop residue, other vegetative waste material, animal waste, food waste, and yard waste;


(4) Diesel-equivalent fuel derived from renewable biomass, including algael oils, oil seed crops, re-claimed vegetable oils and animal fat;


(5) Biogas (including landfill gas and sewage waste treatment gas) produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass;


(6) Butanol or other alcohols produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass; and


(7) Other fuel derived from cellulosic biomass.


*Advisory Committee* means the Biomass Research and Development Technical Advisory Committee established by section 9008(d) of FSRIA (7 U.S.C. 8108(d)).


*Biobased Product* means:


(1) An industrial product (including chemicals, materials, and polymers) produced from biomass; or


(2) A commercial or industrial product (including animal feed and electric power) derived in connection with the conversion of biomass to fuel.


*Bioenergy* means power generated in the form of electricity or heat using biomass as a feedstock.


*Biofuel* means a fuel derived from renewable biomass.


*Biomass Conversion Facility* means a facility that converts or proposes to convert renewable biomass into:


(1) Heat;


(2) Power;


(3) Biobased products; or


(4) Advanced biofuels.


*Biorefinery* means a facility (including equipment and processes) that—


(1) Converts renewable biomass into biofuels and biobased products; and


(2) May produce electricity.


*Board* means the Biomass Research and Development Board established by section 9008(c) of the FSRIA of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8108(c)).


*BRDI* means the Biomass Research and Development Initiative.


*Cellulosic Biofuel* means renewable fuel derived from any cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin that is derived from renewable biomass and that has lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions, as determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, that are at least 60 percent less than the baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions.


*Demonstration* means demonstration of technology in a pilot plant or semi-works scale facility, including a plant or facility located on a farm. A biorefinery demonstration is a system capable of processing a minimum of 50 tons/day of biomass feedstock.


*DOE* means the Department of Energy.


*Institutions of higher education* has the meaning given the term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002(a)).


*Intermediate Ingredient or Feedstock* means a material or compound made in whole or in significant part from biological products, including renewable agricultural materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials, that are subsequently used to make a more complex compound or product.


*Life cycle assessment* means the comprehensive examination of a product's environmental and economic aspects and potential impacts throughout its lifetime, including raw material extraction, transportation, manufacturing, use, and disposal.


*Life cycle cost* means the amortized annual cost of a product, including capital costs, installation costs, operating costs, maintenance costs, and disposal costs discounted over the lifetime of the product.


*Pilot Plant* is an integrated chemical processing system that includes the processing units necessary to convert biomass feedstock into biofuels/bioenergy/biobased products at a minimum feed rate of 1 ton/day of biomass feedstock.


*Private sector entities* include companies, corporations, farms, ranches, cooperatives, and others that compete in the marketplace.


*Recovered materials* means waste materials and by-products that have been recovered or diverted from solid waste, but such term does not include those materials and by-products generated from, and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process (42 U.S.C. 6903 (19)).


*Recycling* means the series of activities, including collection, separation, and processing, by which products or other materials are recovered from the solid waste stream for use in the form of raw materials in the manufacture of new products other than fuel for producing heat or power by combustion.


*Renewable Biomass* means:


(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land (as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a)) and public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that—


(i) Are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health;


(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and


(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans; and the requirements for—


(A) Old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (e) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512); and


(B) Large-tree retention of subsection (f) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512); or


(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including—


(i) Renewable plant material, including feed grains; other agricultural commodities; other plants and trees; and algae; and


(ii) Waste material, including crop residue; other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues); animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and food waste and yard waste.


*Research and development (R&D) projects* means a research project only, a development project only, or a combination of research and development project; however, an R&D project may not be submitted including a demonstration project or vice versa.


*Semi-works* is a combination of chemical processing units that constitute a subset of the fully integrated system and are used to develop process flow diagrams and mass and energy balances for the purposes of scaling up to a demonstration scale facility.


*Transportation fuel* means fuel for use in motor vehicles, motor vehicle engines, non-road vehicles, or non-road engines (except for ocean-going vessels).



---

[N] [75 FR 33498, June 14, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 38549, July 1, 2011]




