# § 17.603   Availability of HPSP scholarships.

(a) *General.* A HPSP scholarship will be awarded only when necessary to assist VA in alleviating shortages or anticipated shortages of personnel in the health professions stated in paragraph (b) of this section. VA will determine the existence of shortage of personnel in accordance with specific criteria for each health care profession. VA has the authority to establish the number of scholarships to be awarded in a fiscal year, and the number that will be awarded to full-time and part-time students.


(b) *Qualifying fields of education*—(1) *Physicians and dentists*—(i) VA will award not less than 50 HPSP scholarships each year to individuals who are accepted for enrollment or are enrolled in a program of education or training leading to employment as a physician or dentist until such date as VA determines that the staffing shortage of physicians and dentists in VA is less than 500.


(ii) Once the staffing shortage of physicians and dentists is less than 500, VA will award HPSP scholarships to individuals in an amount equal to not less than ten percent of the staffing shortage of physicians and dentists in VA.


(2) *Mental health disciplines.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section, VA will award not less than 83 HPSP scholarships each year to individuals who are accepted for or are enrolled in a program of education or training leading to employment in a mental health discipline, including, but limited to, advanced practice nursing (with a focus on mental health or substance use disorder), psychology, or social work.




(3) *Other health care professions.* VA will grant HPSP scholarships in a course of study in those disciplines or programs other than physician or dentist where recruitment is necessary for the improvement of health care of veterans as listed in 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) and (3).





---

[N] [78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 13053, Mar. 6, 2020; 89 FR 51446, June 18, 2024]




