# ยง 397.73   Public information and reporting requirements.

(a) Public information. Information on NRHM routing designations must be made available by the States and Indian tribes to the public in the form of maps, lists, road signs or some combination thereof. If road signs are used, those signs and their placements must comply with the provisions of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), particularly the Hazardous Cargo signs identified as R14-2 and R14-3 shown in Section 2B-62 of that Manual. This publication may be accessed free of charge on the Internet at *http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/.*

(b) *Reporting and publishing requirements.* (1) Each State or Indian tribe, through its routing agency, shall provide information identifying all NRHM routing designations that exist within its jurisdiction:


(i) Electronically, by email to *HMRouting@dot.gov*; or


(ii) By mail to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-SE), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590-0001.


(2) States and Indian tribes shall also submit to FMCSA the current name of the State or Indian tribal agency responsible for NHRM highway routing designations. The State or Indian tribe shall include descriptions of these routing designations, along with the dates they were established. Information on any subsequent changes or new NRHM routing designations shall be furnished within 60 days after establishment to the FMCSA.


(3)(i) FMCSA will consolidate information on the NRHM routing designations, make it available on its website, *https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/regulations/hazardous-materials/national-hazardous-materials-route-registry,* and publish it annually in whole or as updates in the _Federal Register_.


(ii) Each State or Indian tribe may also publish this information in its official register of State or tribal regulations.


(c) A State or Tribally-designated route is effective only after it is published in the National Hazardous Materials Route Registry on FMCSA's website at *https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/regulations/hazardous-materials/national-hazardous-materials-route-registry*.



---

[N] [79 FR 59457, Oct. 2, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 68358, Oct. 4, 2016; 83 FR 22881, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 48726, Sept. 27, 2018; 87 FR 59037, Sept. 29, 2022]




