# ยง 800.232   Material nonpublic technical information.

(a) The term *material nonpublic technical information* means information that:


(1) Provides knowledge, know-how, or understanding, in each case not available in the public domain, of the design, location, or operation of covered investment critical infrastructure, including vulnerability information such as that related to physical security or cybersecurity; or


(2) Is not available in the public domain and is necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology, including processes, techniques, or methods.


(b) The term *material nonpublic technical information* does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.


(c) Examples:


(1) *Example 1.* Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is a U.S. business that services an industrial control system utilized by an interstate oil pipeline that has the capacity to transport 600,000 barrels per day of crude oil (ICS B). ICS B is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. The source code for ICS B is not available in the public domain. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have access to the source code for ICS B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B regarding the design and operation of covered investment critical infrastructure.


(2) *Example 2.* Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a five percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that develops a critical technology (Technology Z). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation B will notify Fund A when it achieves the developmental milestone of completing a demonstration prototype of Technology Z. The notification will only set out the milestone achieved and will not include technical details. Assuming no other facts, the proposed investment does not afford Fund A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology.




