# ยง 272.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


(a) *Act* means the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, 46 App. U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*

(b) *MARAD* means the Maritime Administration, a unit of the United States Department of Transportation, as distinguished from the Board (which is a unit of MARAD).


(c) *Board* means the Maritime Subsidy Board of the Maritime Administration.


(d) *Domestic Origin:*

(1) *Labor.* With respect to labor, Domestic Origin means that the work shall be performed by a U.S. ship repair facility, a U.S. independent contractor, or by the Operator's own shore gang.


(2) *Materials.* With respect to materials, Domestic Origin means that all articles, materials, and supplies shall be of the growth, production or manufacture of the United States.


(e) *Eligible Vessel* means a vessel operated under an ODSA, other than an ODSA subject to part 294 of this chapter, which provides for the payment of M&R subsidy with respect to the operation of that vessel.


(f) *Equipment* means that part of an Eligible Vessel that is not part of the vessel's hull or machinery.


(g) *Expendable equipment* means those articles, outfittings and furnishings that are portable, semi-portable or detachable, that are used in equipping a ship for service and in its normal day-to-day maintenance and operation, and that are subject to casual or gradual deterioration and replacement. It does not include items classified as stores and supplies or Spare Parts.


(h) *Improvement* means work to be performed on an Eligible Vessel which is a modification, alteration, addition or betterment, which may be accomplished separately from M&R, but may be eligible for M&R subsidy pursuant to ยง 272.22 of this part.


(i) *M&R* and *M&R Subsidy* mean, respectively, maintenance and repairs and maintenance and repair subsidy payable pursuant to section 603 of the Act.


(j) *ODS* and *ODSA* refer, respectively, to operating-differential subsidy provided under an operating-differential subsidy agreement entered into pursuant to title VI of the Act.


(k) *Operator* means any individual, partnership, corporation, or association that enters into an ODSA with the Board pursuant to title VI of the Act.


(l) *Permanent equipment* means Equipment that is, or is intended to become when installed, an integral, permanent, built-in part of the vessel.


(m) *Region Office* means any one of the four Maritime Administration Region Offices in New York, NY; New Orleans, LA; San Francisco, CA; and Chicago, IL; established pursuant to section 809 of the Act.


(n) *Spare parts* means such items as spare propellers and tailshafts and self-contained operable units of machinery or equipment, as well as those items generally recognized within the maritime industry as Spare Parts.


(o) *United States* means the states of the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.




