# § 5.68   Name and address for distilled spirits that were imported in a container.

(a) *General.* This section applies to distilled spirits that were imported in a container, as defined in § 5.1. See § 5.67 for name and address requirements applicable to distilled spirits that were domestically bottled after importation. See 19 CFR parts 102 and 134 for U.S. Customs and Border Protection country of origin marking requirements.


(b) *Mandatory labeling statement.* Distilled spirits imported in containers, as defined in § 5.1, must bear a label stating the words “imported by” or a similar appropriate phrase, followed by the name and address of the importer.


(1) For purposes of this section, the importer is the holder of the importer's basic permit who either makes the original customs entry or is the person for whom such entry is made, or the holder of the importer's basic permit who is the agent, distributor, or franchise holder for the particular brand of imported alcohol beverages and who places the order abroad.


(2) The address of the importer must be stated as the city and State of the principal place of business and must be consistent with the address reflected on the importer's basic permit. Addresses may, but are not required to, include additional information such as street names, counties, zip codes, phone numbers, and website addresses. The postal abbreviation of the State name may be used; for example, California may be abbreviated as CA.


(c) *Optional statements.* In addition to the statements required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label may also state the name and address of the principal place of business of the foreign producer.


(d) *Form of address.* The “place” stated must be the city and State, shown on the basic permit or other qualifying document, of the premises at which the operations took place; and the place for each operation that is designated on the label must be shown.


(e) *Trade or operating names.* A trade name may be used if the trade name is listed on the basic permit or other qualifying documentation.




