# § 35.3   Definitions.

*Baseline* means tax revenue of the recipient for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation in each reporting year using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States.


*Capital expenditures* has the same meaning given in 2 CFR 200.1.


*County* means a county, parish, or other equivalent county division (as defined by the Census Bureau).


*Covered benefits* include, but are not limited to, the costs of all types of leave (vacation, family-related, sick, military, bereavement, sabbatical, jury duty), employee insurance (health, life, dental, vision), retirement (pensions, 401(k)), unemployment benefit plans (Federal and State), workers' compensation insurance, and Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes (which includes Social Security and Medicare taxes).


*Covered change* means a change in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase. A change in law includes any final legislative or regulatory action, a new or changed administrative interpretation, and the phase-in or taking effect of any statute or rule if the phase-in or taking effect was not prescribed prior to the start of the covered period.


*Covered period* means, with respect to a state or territory, the period that:


(1) Begins on March 3, 2021; and


(2) Ends on the last day of the fiscal year of such State or territory in which all funds received by the State or territory from a payment made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act have been expended or returned to, or recovered by, the Secretary.


*COVID-19* means the Coronavirus Disease 2019.


*COVID-19 public health emergency* means the period beginning on January 27, 2020, and lasting until the termination of the national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak declared pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).


*Delivery sequence* means the order in which disaster relief agencies and organizations provide assistance pursuant to 44 CFR 206.191.


*Deposit* means an extraordinary payment of an accrued, unfunded liability. The term deposit does not refer to routine contributions made by an employer to pension funds as part of the employer's obligations related to payroll, such as either a pension contribution consisting of a normal cost component related to current employees or a component addressing the amortization of unfunded liabilities calculated by reference to the employer's payroll costs.


*Disaster loss* means a loss suffered as a result of a major disaster or emergency declared under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).


*Eligible employer* means an employer of an eligible worker who performs essential work.


*Eligible workers* means workers needed to maintain continuity of operations of essential critical infrastructure sectors, including health care; emergency response; sanitation, disinfection, and cleaning work; maintenance work; grocery stores, restaurants, food production, and food delivery; pharmacy; biomedical research; behavioral health work; medical testing and diagnostics; home- and community-based health care or assistance with activities of daily living; family or childcare; social services work; public health work; vital services to Tribes; any work performed by an employee of a State, local, or Tribal government; educational work, school nutrition work, and other work required to operate a school facility; laundry work; elections work; solid waste or hazardous materials management, response, and cleanup work; work requiring physical interaction with patients; dental care work; transportation and warehousing; work at hotel and commercial lodging facilities that are used for COVID-19 mitigation and containment; work in a mortuary; and work in critical clinical research, development, and testing necessary for COVID-19 response.


(1) With respect to a recipient that is a metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county, workers in any additional non-public sectors as each chief executive officer of such recipient may designate as critical to protect the health and well-being of the residents of their metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county; or


(2) With respect to a State, territory, or Tribal government, workers in any additional non-public sectors as each Governor of a State or territory, or each Tribal government, may designate as critical to protect the health and well-being of the residents of their State, territory, or Tribal government.


*Emergency relief* means assistance that is needed to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of catastrophe.


*Essential work* means work that:


(1) Is not performed while teleworking from a residence; and


(2) Involves:


(i) Regular in-person interactions with patients, the public, or coworkers of the individual that is performing the work; or


(ii) Regular physical handling of items that were handled by, or are to be handled by patients, the public, or coworkers of the individual that is performing the work.


*Funds* means, with respect to a recipient, amounts provided to the recipient pursuant to a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transferred to the recipient pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.


*General revenue* means money that is received from tax revenue, current charges, and miscellaneous general revenue, excluding refunds and other correcting transactions and proceeds from issuance of debt or the sale of investments, agency or private trust transactions, and intergovernmental transfers from the Federal Government, including transfers made pursuant to section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act. General revenue also includes revenue from liquor stores that are owned and operated by state and local governments. General revenue does not include revenues from utilities, except recipients may choose to include revenue from utilities that are part of their own government as general revenue provided the recipient does so consistently over the remainder of the period of performance. Revenue from Tribal business enterprises must be included in general revenue.


*Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act* means the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 429 (Nov. 15, 2021).


*Intergovernmental transfers* means money received from other governments, including grants and shared taxes.


*Low-income household* means a household with:


(1) Income at or below 185 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for the size of its household based on the poverty guidelines published most recently by the Department of Health and Human Services; or


(2) Income at or below 40 percent of the Area Median Income for its county and size of household based on data published most recently by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Micro-business* means a small business that has five or fewer employees, one or more of whom owns the small business.


*Moderate-income household* means a household with:


(1) Income at or below 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for the size of its household based on poverty guidelines published most recently by the Department of Health and Human Services; or


(2) Income at or below 65 percent of the Area Median Income for its county and size of household based on data published most recently by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Metropolitan city* has the meaning given that term in section 102(a)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(4)) and includes cities that relinquish or defer their status as a metropolitan city for purposes of receiving allocations under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306) for fiscal year 2021.


*Natural disaster* means any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, drought, or fire, in each case attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons. “Natural disaster” may also include another type of natural catastrophe, attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons.


*Net reduction in total spending* is measured as the State or territory's total spending for a given reporting year excluding its spending of funds, subtracted from its total spending for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States for that reporting year.


*Nonentitlement unit of local government* means a “city,” as that term is defined in section 102(a)(5) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(5)), that is not a metropolitan city.


*Nonprofit* means a nonprofit organization that is exempt from Federal income taxation and that is described in section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code.


*Obligation* means an order placed for property and services and entering into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment. An obligation also means a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds.




*Operating expenses* means costs necessary to operate and manage a public transportation system, including driver salaries, fuel, and items having a useful life of less than one year. Operating expenses do not include preventive maintenance activities.


*Pension fund* means a defined benefit plan and does not include a defined contribution plan.


*Period of performance* means the time period described in § 35.5 during which a recipient may obligate and expend funds in accordance with sections 602(c)(1), 602(c)(5)(E), 603(c)(1), and 603(c)(6)(D) of the Social Security Act and this subpart.


*Premium pay* means an amount of up to $13 per hour that is paid to an eligible worker, in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives, for all work performed by the eligible worker during the COVID-19 public health emergency. Such amount may not exceed $25,000 in total over the period of performance with respect to any single eligible worker. Premium pay may be awarded to non-hourly and part-time eligible workers performing essential work. Premium pay will be considered to be in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives if, as measured on an hourly rate, the premium pay is:


(1) With regard to work that the eligible worker previously performed, pay and remuneration equal to the sum of all wages and remuneration previously received plus up to $13 per hour with no reduction, substitution, offset, or other diminishment of the eligible worker's previous, current, or prospective wages or remuneration; or


(2) With regard to work that the eligible worker continues to perform, pay of up to $13 per hour that is in addition to the eligible worker's regular rate of wages or remuneration, with no reduction, substitution, offset, or other diminishment of the worker's current and prospective wages or remuneration.


*Qualified census tract* has the same meaning given in 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii)(I).


*Recipient* means a State, territory, Tribal government, metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, county, or unit of general local government that receives a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transfer pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.


*Reporting year* means a single year or partial year within the covered period, aligned to the current fiscal year of the State or territory during the covered period.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Treasury.


*State* means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.


*Small business* means a business concern or other organization that:


(1) Has no more than 500 employees or, if applicable, the size standard in number of employees established by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration for the industry in which the business concern or organization operates, and


(2) Is a small business concern as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).


*Surface Transportation project* means any of the following:


(1) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 117;


(2) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 119;


(3) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 124, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;


(4) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 133;


(5) An activity to carry out 23 U.S.C. 134;


(6) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 148;


(7) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 149;


(8) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 151(f), as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;


(9) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 165;


(10) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 167;


(11) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 173, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;


(12) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 175, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;


(13) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 176, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;


(14) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 202;


(15) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 203;


(16) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 204;


(17) A project eligible under the program for national infrastructure investments commonly known as the “Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity” grant program;


(18) A project eligible for credit assistance under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program under 23 U.S.C. chapter 6;


(19) A project that furthers the completion of a designated route of the Appalachian Development Highway System under 40 U.S.C. 14501;


(20) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5307;


(21) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5309;


(22) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5311;


(23) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5337;


(24) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5339;


(25) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 6703, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;


(26) A project eligible under the bridge replacement, rehabilitation, preservation, protection, and construction program under paragraph (1) under the heading 'HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM' under the heading 'FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION' under the heading 'DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION' under title VIII of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act; and


(27) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 6701 for the purpose set forth in § 35.6(h)(1)(i)(C).


*Tax revenue* means revenue received from a compulsory contribution that is exacted by a government for public purposes excluding refunds and corrections and, for purposes of § 35.8, intergovernmental transfers. Tax revenue does not include payments for a special privilege granted or service rendered, employee or employer assessments and contributions to finance retirement and social insurance trust systems, or special assessments to pay for capital improvements.


*Territory* means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa.


*Title I eligible schools* means schools eligible to receive services under section 1113 of Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 6313), including schools served under section 1113(b)(1)(C) of that Act.


*Title I project* means an activity eligible under section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)).


*Tribal enterprise* means a business concern:


(1) That is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments; or


(2) That is owned in part by one or more Tribal governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments, if all other owners are either United States citizens or small business concerns, as these terms are used and consistent with the definitions in 15 U.S.C. 657a(b)(2)(D).


*Tribal government* means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published on January 29, 2021, pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131).


*Unemployment rate* means the U-3 unemployment rate provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as part of the Local Area Unemployment Statistics program, measured as total unemployment as a percentage of the civilian labor force.


*Unemployment trust fund* means an unemployment trust fund established under section 904 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1104).


*Unit of general local government* has the meaning given to that term in section 102(a)(1) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(1)).





---

[N] [88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 80589, Nov. 20, 2023]








