# § 429.65   Dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to dedicated purpose motors that are subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter. Starting on the compliance date for any standards for dedicated-purpose pool pump motors published after January 1, 2021, manufacturers of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to such standards must make representations of energy efficiency, including representations for certification of compliance, in accordance with this section. Prior to the compliance date for any standards for dedicated-purpose pool pump motors published after January 1, 2021, and on or after April 17, 2023, manufacturers of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to test procedures in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter choosing to make representations of energy efficiency must follow the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Compliance certification.* A manufacturer may not certify the compliance of a dedicated-purpose pool pump motor pursuant to 10 CFR 429.12 unless:


(1) Testing of the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor basic model was conducted using an accredited laboratory that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section;


(2) Testing was conducted using a laboratory other than an accredited laboratory that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, or the full-load efficiency of the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor basic model was determined through the application of an AEDM pursuant to the requirements of § 429.70(k), and a third-party certification organization that is nationally recognized in the United States under § 429.73 has certified the full-load efficiency of the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor basic model through issuance of a certificate of conformity for the basic model.


(c) *Determination of represented value.* A manufacturer must determine the represented value of full-load efficiency (inclusive of the drive, if the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor basic model is placed into commerce with a drive, or is unable to operate without the presence of a drive) for each basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor either by testing in conjunction with the applicable sampling provisions or by applying an AEDM as set forth in this section and in § 429.70(k).


(1) *Testing*—(i) *Units to be tested.* If the represented value for a given basic model is determined through testing, the requirements of § 429.11 apply except that, for dedicated-purpose pool pump motors, the minimum sample size is five units. If fewer units than the minimum sample size are produced, each unit produced must be tested and the test results must demonstrate that the basic model performs at or better than the applicable standard(s). If one or more units of the basic model are manufactured subsequently, compliance with the default sampling and representations provisions is required.


(ii) *Full-load efficiency.* Any value of full-load efficiency must be lower than or equal to the average of the sample _x_, calculated as follows:


Where x_i_ is the measured full-load efficiency of unit i and n is the number of units tested in the sample.


(iii) *Represented value.* The represented value is the full-load efficiency of a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor and is to be used in marketing materials and all public representations, as the certified value of efficiency, and on the nameplate. (*See* § 431.486 of this subchapter). Alternatively, a manufacturer may make representations using the nominal full-load efficiency of a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor provided that the manufacturer uses the nominal full-load efficiency consistently on all marketing materials, and as the value on the nameplate. Determine the nominal full-load efficiency by selecting an efficiency from the “Nominal Full-load Efficiency” table in appendix B to subpart B of this part, that is no greater than the full-load efficiency of the basic model as calculated in § 429.65(c)(1)(ii).


(iv) *Minimum full-load efficiency:* To ensure quality control and consistency of performance within the basic model, the lowest full-load efficiency in the sample X_min_, must satisfy the condition:


where *Std* is the value of any applicable energy conservation standard. If the lowest measured full-load efficiency of a motor in the tested sample does not satisfy the condition in this section, then the basic model cannot be certified as compliant with the applicable standard.


(v) *Dedicated-purpose pool pump motor total horsepower.* The represented value of the total horsepower of a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor must be the mean of the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor total horsepower for each tested unit in the sample.


(2) *Alternative efficiency determination methods.* In lieu of testing, the represented value of full-load efficiency for a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor must be determined through the application of an AEDM pursuant to the requirements of § 429.70(k) and the provisions of this section, where:


(i) The full-load efficiency of any basic model used to validate an AEDM must be calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section; and


(ii) The represented value is the full-load efficiency of a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor and is to be used in marketing materials and all public representations, as the certified value of efficiency, and on the nameplate. (*See* § 431.485 of this subchapter). Alternatively, a manufacturer may make representations using the nominal full-load efficiency of a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motor provided that the manufacturer uses the nominal full-load efficiency consistently on all marketing materials, and as the value on the nameplate. Determine the nominal full-load efficiency by selecting an efficiency from the “Nominal Full-load Efficiency” table in appendix B to subpart B of this part, that is no greater than the full-load efficiency of the basic model as calculated in § 429.65(c)(1)(ii).


(d) *Accredited laboratory.* (1) Testing pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section must be conducted in an accredited laboratory for which the accreditation body was:


(i) The National Institute of Standards and Technology/National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NIST/NVLAP); or


(ii) A laboratory accreditation body having a mutual recognition arrangement with NIST/NVLAP; or


(iii) An organization classified by the Department, pursuant to § 429.74, as an accreditation body.


(2) NIST/NVLAP is under the auspices of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)/National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP), which is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. NIST/NVLAP accreditation is granted on the basis of conformance with criteria published in 15 CFR part 285. The National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, “Procedures and General Requirements,” NIST Handbook 150-10, April 2020, (referenced for guidance only, *see* § 429.3) present the technical requirements of NVLAP for the Efficiency of Electric Motors field of accreditation. This handbook supplements NIST Handbook 150, National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program “Procedures and General Requirements,” which contains 15 CFR part 285 plus all general NIST/NVLAP procedures, criteria, and policies. Information regarding NIST/NVLAP and its Efficiency of Electric Motors Program (EEM) can be obtained from NIST/NVLAP, 100 Bureau Drive, Mail Stop 2140, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2140, (301) 975-4016 (telephone), or (301) 926-2884 (fax).


(e) *Certification reports for dedicated purpose pool pump motors.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 apply to dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.


(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public, product-specific information for each basic model:


(i) The dedicated-purpose pool pump motor total horsepower as described in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section;


(ii) For all basic models with total horsepower less than 0.5 THP, the full-load efficiency in percent (%) as described in this section; and


(iii) For all basic models with total horsepower greater than or equal to 0.5 THP: a statement confirming that the motor is a variable speed control dedicated purpose pool pump motor, as defined at § 431.483 of this chapter; and a statement regarding whether freeze protection is shipped enabled or disabled; for dedicated-purpose pool pump motors distributed in commerce with freeze protection controls enabled: The default dry-bulb air temperature setting (in °F), default run time setting (in minutes), maximum operating speed (in revolutions per minute, or rpm), and default motor speed in freeze protection mode (in revolutions per minute, or rpm).


(f) *Rounding requirements.* (1) Round dedicated-purpose-pool pump motor total horsepower to the nearest hundredth of a THP;


(2) Round full-load efficiency to the nearest tenth of a percent; and


(3) For dedicated-purpose pool pump motor basic models with total horsepower greater than or equal to 0.5 THP and distributed in commerce with freeze protection controls enabled, round the dry-bulb temperature setting, run time setting, maximum operating speed, and default motor speed in freeze protection mode to the nearest whole number.







---

[N] [87 FR 63648, Oct. 19, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 82068, Oct. 9, 2024]




