# ยง 1719.8   Loan provisions.

(a) *Financial ratios.* The Administrator will set financial coverage ratios based on the risk profile of the RESP applicant and specific loan terms. Those financial ratios will be included in the RESP borrower's loan documents with RUS.


(1) Unless otherwise notified, existing RUS borrowers will be subject to their current debt service coverage ratios as provided in their previously executed loan contracts with RUS.


(2) The minimum coverage ratio required for RESP borrowers, whether applied on annual or average basis is 1.05 Debt Service Coverage (DSC) unless specifically waived by the Administrator.


(3) DSC for RESP borrowers that are not existing RUS borrowers under the Rural Electrification Act will be defined as (Net Income or Total Margins) + (Interest Charges on Long Term Debt) + (Principal payments from RESP relending activities) + (Depreciation and Amortization Expenses)/Total Debt Service Billed.


(4) In reviewing and approving a RESP loan, the Administrator may increase the coverage ratio required to be met by an individual RESP borrower if the Administrator determines that higher ratios are required to ensure the repayment of the loan made by RUS, or reduce the coverage ratios if the Administrator determines that the lower ratios are in the best interest of the Government. The coverage ratios will be set forth in the loan documents.


(b) *Collateral.* RUS generally requires that borrowers provide it with a first priority lien on all of the borrower's real and personal property, including intangible personal property and any property acquired after the date of the loan. Collateral that is used to secure a loan must ordinarily be free from liens or security interests other than those permitted by RUS or existing security documents.


(1) For existing RUS borrowers, the Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, rely on existing security arrangements with RUS.


(2) When a RESP borrower is unable, by reason of preexisting encumbrances, or otherwise, to furnish a first priority lien on its entire system, the Administrator may accept other forms of security, including but not limited to a parent guarantee, state guarantee, an irrevocable letter of credit, surety bond, pledge of revenues, or other security if the Administrator determines such credit support is reasonably adequate to protect the government's interests and otherwise acceptable in form and substance.


(3) RUS may in certain circumstances agree to share its priority lien position with another lender provided the RESP loan is adequately secured and the security arrangements are acceptable to RUS. In such circumstances, RUS will consider entering into joint security arrangements with other lenders on a *pari passu* basis.


(c) *Equity contributions.* To be eligible for a RESP loan, a newly created Eligible entity or an entity primarily owned or controlled by one (1) or more entities as described in ยง 1719.4 must meet a minimum equity contribution in the proposed EE Program requirement at the time of the loan closing. The eligible entity will be required to continue to maintain the minimum equity contribution for the life of the loan or other time period as determined by the Administrator and as set forth in the loan documents. The minimum acceptable equity contribution for each RESP borrower will be determined by the Administrator as set forth below and will be included in the Conditional commitment letter and the loan documents as a condition and covenant to the RESP loan.


(1) The required equity contribution and related terms will be determined by the Administrator for the individual RESP applicant based upon the its risk profile and available collateral for the RESP loan.


(2) RUS reserves the right to require additional equity contributions from existing RUS or RESP borrowers when it is in the best interest of the Government.


(3) If the RESP applicant under this section is unable to achieve a minimal acceptable contribution, as set forth in the Conditional commitment letter, the Administrator may consider the following to meet such shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution:


(i) The infusion of additional capital into the EE Program by an Investor to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution. RUS may require that the additional capital be deposited into a RESP applicant's special account subject to a deposit account control agreement with RUS prior to loan closing.


(ii) An unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, in the amount necessary to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution. RUS must be an unconditional payee under the letter of credit and the letter of credit must be in place prior to loan closing and remain in place until the loan is repaid unless specified otherwise in the loan documents.


(iii) General obligation bonds or special revenue bonds issued by tribal, state or local governments in the amount necessary to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution. If the minimum acceptable equity position is satisfied in full or part with general obligation bonds or special revenue bonds, any lien securing the bonds must be subordinate to the lien of the Government securing the RESP loan.


(iv) Any other requirements or mechanisms approved by the Administrator to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution.


(d) *Loan advances.* RUS will disburse loan funds to the RESP borrower in accordance with the terms and conditions of the executed loan documents.


(1) Excluding the Special Advance, all loan funds will be disbursed either as an advance in anticipation of loans to be made by the RESP borrower to the Qualified consumers; or as a reimbursement for eligible program costs, including loans already made to Qualified consumers. No disbursements will be made until the RESP borrower has complied with the loan conditions set forth in the loan documents. Any disbursement of loan funds to a RESP borrower within a 12-month consecutive period must not exceed 50 percent of the approved loan amount.


(i) The RESP borrower must provide to the Qualified consumers all RESP loan funds that the RESP borrower receives within one year of receiving them from RUS. If the RESP borrower does not re-lend the RESP loan funds within one year, the unused RESP loan funds, and any interest earned on those RESP loan funds, must be returned to the Government and will be applied to the RESP borrower's debt.


(ii) The RESP borrower will not be eligible to receive additional RESP loan funds from RUS until providing evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, that RESP loan funds from a previous advance have been fully relent to Qualified consumers or returned to the Government.


(iii) RUS will disburse the RESP loan funds as an advance in anticipation of loans to be made by the RESP borrower to the Qualified consumers only if the RESP borrower has established written procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of RESP loan funds from RUS to the RESP borrower and its corresponding disbursement to the Qualified consumer.


(iv) A RESP borrower's request for an advance in anticipation of loans to Qualified consumers should be limited to the minimum amounts needed and timed to be in accordance with the actual immediate cash needs to carry out the EE Program.


(2) The RESP borrower may elect to request a Special advance to defray the appropriate start-up costs of establishing a new EE Program or modify an existing EE Program.


(i) The Special advance must not exceed 4 percent of the total approved loan amount.


(ii) Repayment of the Special advance must be required during the 10-year period beginning on the date on which the Special advance is made.


(iii) The RESP borrower may elect to defer the repayment of the Special advance to the end of the 10-year period.


(iv) All Special advances must be made during the first 10-years of the term of the loan.


(v) All amounts advanced on the loan by RUS to the RESP borrower, including the Special advance, must be paid prior to the final maturity which must not exceed 20 years.


(vi) The Special advance maximum amount must be requested by the Borrower and approved by RUS prior to loan closing.


(e) *Loans to Qualified Consumers.* RUS borrowers loans to Qualified Consumers will be subject to the following terms and for the purposes listed below.


(1) RESP borrower's loans to its Qualified consumers must be for the purpose of implementing EE measures.


(2) Loans to Qualified consumers may bear interest not to exceed 5 percent.


(3) Each loan made by the RESP borrower to a Qualified consumer may not exceed a term of 10 years.


(4) The EE measures financed with a RESP loan proceeds must be for the purpose of decreasing energy (not just electricity) usage or costs of the Qualified consumer by an amount that ensures, to the maximum extent practicable, that a loan term of not more than 10 years will not pose an undue financial burden on the Qualified consumer.


(5) RESP loan proceeds must not be used to fund purchases of, or modifications to, personal property unless the personal property is or becomes attached to real property (including a manufactured home) as a fixture.


(6) Loans made to Qualified consumers must be repaid through charges added to the recurring service bill for the property for, or, at which the EE measures have been or will be implemented. This requirement does not prohibit the voluntary prepayment of the loan by the owner of the property; or the use of any additional repayment mechanisms that are demonstrated to have appropriate risk mitigation measures, as determined by the RESP borrower, or required if the Qualified consumer is no longer a customer of the RESP Borrower.


(7) Loans made by a RESP borrower to a Qualified consumer using RESP loan funds must require an Energy audit by the RESP borrower to determine the impact of the proposed EE measures on the energy costs and consumption of the Qualified consumer. For purposes of this section, an energy audit performed by a contractor or agent of the RESP borrower would be deemed as performed by the RESP borrower.


(8) The RESP borrower must comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations in making loans to Qualified consumers. Approval by RUS and its employees of a loan under this section does not constitute a Government endorsement. The Government and its employees assume no legal liability for the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information, product, service, or process funded directly or indirectly with financial assistance provided under RESP. Nothing in the loan documents between RUS and the RESP borrower will confer upon any other person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever. Neither the Government nor its employees make any warranty, express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, with respect to any information, product, service, or process available from a RESP borrower or its agents.


(f) *Loan term and repayment. RUS loans to an eligible borrow will be subject to the following terms and repayment conditions set forth in this section.*

(1) The RESP loans under this section will bear no interest (0 percent) and have a maturity not exceeding 20 years.


(2) The amortization schedule must be based on a loan term that does not exceed 20 years from the date on which the loan is closed.


(3) Except for the Special advance, the repayment of each advance must be amortized for a period not to exceed 10 years.


(4) The Administrator may include additional conditions on the repayment schedule if, in his or her sole discretion, it is in the best interest of the Government.


(5) The RESP borrower is responsible for fully repaying the RESP loan to RUS according to the loan documents regardless of repayment by its Qualified consumers.


(6) The RESP borrower may use the revenues from the interest charged to the Qualified consumer to establish a loan loss reserve, and to offset personnel and EE Program costs.


(7) Loans under this Section will not bear interest (0 percent), however, indebtedness not paid when due will be subject to interest, penalties, administrative costs and late fees as provided in the loan documents.






