# § 184.1101   Diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides.

(a) Diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides, also known as DATEM, are composed of mixed esters of glycerin in which one or more of the hydroxyl groups of glycerin has been esterified by diacetyl tartaric acid and by fatty acids. The ingredient is prepared by the reaction of diacetyl tartaric anhydride with mono- and diglycerides that are derived from edible sources.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d. Ed. (1981), pp. 98-99, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used in food as an emulsifier and emulsifier salt as defined in § 170.3(o)(8) of this chapter and a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods and baking mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(l) of this chapter; nonalcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter; dairy product analogs as defined in § 170.3(n)(10) of this chapter; and fats and oils as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.


(e) *Labeling:* The acronym “DATEM” may be used on food labeling as the alternate common or usual name for the ingredient diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides.



---

[N] [54 FR 7403, Feb. 21, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 13168, Mar. 31, 1989; 54 FR 18382, Apr. 28, 1989; 60 FR 15872, Mar. 28, 1995]




