# § 982.552   PHA denial or termination of assistance for family.

(a) *Action or inaction by family.* (1) A PHA may deny assistance for an applicant or terminate assistance for a participant under the programs because of the family's action or failure to act as described in this section or § 982.553. The provisions of this section do not affect denial or termination of assistance for grounds other than action or failure to act by the family.


(2) Denial of assistance for an applicant may include any or all of the following: denying listing on the PHA waiting list, denying or withdrawing a voucher, refusing to enter into a HAP contract or approve a lease, and refusing to process or provide assistance under portability procedures.


(3) Termination of assistance for a participant may include any or all of the following: refusing to enter into a HAP contract or approve a lease, terminating housing assistance payments under an outstanding HAP contract, and refusing to process or provide assistance under portability procedures.


(4) This section does not limit or affect exercise of the PHA rights and remedies against the owner under the HAP contract, including termination, suspension or reduction of housing assistance payments, or termination of the HAP contract.


(b) *Requirement to deny admission or terminate assistance.* (1) For provisions on denial of admission and termination of assistance for illegal drug use, other criminal activity, and alcohol abuse that would threaten other residents, see § 982.553. 


(2) The PHA must terminate program assistance for a family evicted from housing assisted under the program for serious violation of the lease.


(3) The PHA must deny admission to the program for an applicant, or terminate program assistance for a participant, if any member of the family fails to sign and submit consent forms for obtaining information in accordance with part 5, subparts B and F of this title.


(4) The family must submit required evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status. See part 5 of this title for a statement of circumstances in which the PHA must deny admission or terminate program assistance because a family member does not establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, and the applicable informal hearing procedures.


(5) The PHA must deny or terminate assistance if any family member fails to meet the eligibility requirements concerning individuals enrolled at an institution of higher education as specified in 24 CFR 5.612.


(6) The PHA must deny or terminate assistance based on the restrictions on net assets and property ownership when required by § 5.618 of this title.










(c) *Authority to deny admission or terminate assistance*—(1) *Grounds for denial or termination of assistance.* The PHA may at any time deny program assistance for an applicant, or terminate program assistance for a participant, for any of the following grounds:


(i) If the family violates any family obligations under the program (see § 982.551). See § 982.553 concerning denial or termination of assistance for crime by family members.


(ii) If any member of the family has been evicted from federally assisted housing in the last five years;


(iii) If a PHA has ever terminated assistance under the program for any member of the family.


(iv) If any member of the family has committed fraud, bribery, or any other corrupt or criminal act in connection with any Federal housing program (see also § 982.553(a)(1)); 


(v) If the family currently owes rent or other amounts to the PHA or to another PHA in connection with Section 8 or public housing assistance under the 1937 Act.


(vi) If the family has not reimbursed any PHA for amounts paid to an owner under a HAP contract for rent, damages to the unit, or other amounts owed by the family under the lease.


(vii) If the family breaches an agreement with the PHA to pay amounts owed to a PHA, or amounts paid to an owner by a PHA. (The PHA, at its discretion, may offer a family the opportunity to enter an agreement to pay amounts owed to a PHA or amounts paid to an owner by a PHA. The PHA may prescribe the terms of the agreement.)


(viii) If the family has engaged in or threatened abusive or violent behavior toward PHA personnel.


(ix) If a welfare-to-work (WTW) family fails, willfully and persistently, to fulfill its obligations under the welfare-to-work voucher program. 


(x) If the family has been engaged in criminal activity or alcohol abuse as described in § 982.553. 


(2) *Consideration of circumstances.* In determining whether to deny or terminate assistance because of action or failure to act by members of the family: 


(i) The PHA may consider all relevant circumstances such as the seriousness of the case, the extent of participation or culpability of individual family members, mitigating circumstances related to the disability of a family member, and the effects of denial or termination of assistance on other family members who were not involved in the action or failure. 


(ii) The PHA may impose, as a condition of continued assistance for other family members, a requirement that other family members who participated in or were culpable for the action or failure will not reside in the unit. The PHA may permit the other members of a participant family to continue receiving assistance. 


(iii) In determining whether to deny admission or terminate assistance for illegal use of drugs or alcohol abuse by a household member who is no longer engaged in such behavior, the PHA may consider whether such household member is participating in or has successfully completed a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program, or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully (42 U.S.C. 13661). For this purpose, the PHA may require the applicant or tenant to submit evidence of the household member's current participation in, or successful completion of, a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or evidence of otherwise having been rehabilitated successfully. 


(iv) If the family includes a person with disabilities, the PHA decision concerning such action is subject to consideration of reasonable accommodation in accordance with part 8 of this title. 


(v) *Nondiscrimination limitation and protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.* The PHA's admission and termination actions must be consistent with fair housing and equal opportunity provisions of 24 CFR 5.105, and with the requirements of 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).


(d) *Information for family.* The PHA must give the family a written description of:


(1) Family obligations under the program.


(2) The grounds on which the PHA may deny or terminate assistance because of family action or failure to act.


(3) The PHA informal hearing procedures. 


(e) *Applicant screening.* The PHA may at any time deny program assistance for an applicant in accordance with the PHA policy, as stated in the PHA Administrative Plan, on screening of applicants for family behavior or suitability for tenancy.



---

[N] [60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995; 61 FR 13627, Mar. 27, 1996; 63 FR 23865, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 26650, May 14, 1999; 64 FR 49659, Sept. 14, 1999; 64 FR 56915, Oct. 21, 1999; 65 FR 16823, Mar. 30, 2000; 66 FR 28805, May 24, 2001; 70 FR 77744, Dec. 30, 2005; 73 FR 72345, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66264, Oct. 27, 2010; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015; 81 FR 80817, Nov. 16, 2016; 88 FR 9676, Feb. 14, 2023; 89 FR 38303, May 7, 2024]




