# ยง 785.4   Request for hearing and answer.

(a) *Deadline for answering the NOVA.* If the respondent wishes to contest the NOVA issued by BIS, the respondent must submit a written request for a hearing to BIS within 15 business days from the date of service of the NOVA. If the respondent requests a hearing, the respondent must answer the NOVA within 30 calendar days from the date of the request for hearing. The request for a hearing and the respondent's answer to the NOVA must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), along with a copy of the NOVA, and served on the Office of Chief Counsel, and any other address(es) specified in the NOVA, in accordance with ยง 785.6 of the APR.


(b) *Content of respondent's answer.* The respondent's answer must be responsive to the NOVA and must fully set forth the nature of the respondent's defense(s). The answer must specifically admit or deny each separate allegation in the NOVA; if the respondent is without knowledge, the answer will so state and this will serve as a denial. Failure to deny or controvert a particular allegation will be deemed to be an admission of that allegation. The answer must also set forth any additional or new matter that the respondent contends will support a defense or claim of mitigation. Any defense or partial defense not specifically set forth in the answer shall be deemed to be waived, and evidence supporting that defense or partial defense may be refused, except for good cause shown.


(c) *English required.* The request for hearing, the answer to the NOVA, and all other papers and documentary evidence must be submitted in English.


(d) *Waiver.* The failure of the respondent to file a request for a hearing and an answer within the times prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations set forth in the NOVA. If no hearing is requested and no answer is provided, a final order will be signed by the Secretary of Commerce, or by a designated United States Government official, and will constitute final agency action in the case. 




