# § 1302.7   Compliance reviews and conduct of investigations.

(a) *Preaward compliance reviews.* (1) Prior to approval of financial assistance, TVA will make a determination as to whether the proposed recipient is in compliance with Title VI and the requirements of this part with respect to a program or activity for which it is seeking Federal financial assistance from TVA. The basis for such a determination shall be submission of an assurance of compliance and a review of the data and information submitted by the proposed recipient, any relevant compliance review reports on file with TVA, and any other information available to TVA. Where a determination cannot be made from this data, TVA will require the submission of necessary additional information and may take additional steps. Such additional steps may include, for example, communicating with local government officials, protected class organizations, and onsite reviews.


(2) No proposed recipient shall be approved unless it is determined that the proposed recipient is in compliance with Title VI and this part or has agreed in writing to take necessary specified steps within a stated period of time to come into compliance with Title VI and this part. Such an agreement must be approved by TVA and made a part of the conditions of the agreement under which the financial assistance is provided.


(3)(i) Where TVA finds that a proposed recipient may not be in compliance with Title VI and this part, TVA shall notify the proposed recipient and the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights in writing of:


(A) The preliminary findings setting forth the alleged noncompliance;


(B) Suggested actions for correcting the alleged noncompliance; and


(C) The fact that the proposed recipient has 10 days to correct the alleged noncompliance or to provide during this time a written submission responding to or rebutting the preliminary findings or suggested corrective actions set forth in the notice.


(ii) If within this 10-day period the proposed recipient has not agreed to the suggested actions set forth or to other actions that would correct the alleged noncompliance under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section, or the preliminary findings set forth in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section have not been rebutted to TVA's satisfaction, or voluntary compliance has not been otherwise secured, TVA shall make a formal determination of compliance or noncompliance, notify the proposed recipient, and the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights and institute proceedings (including provision of an opportunity for a hearing) under § 1302.8 of this part.


(b) *Postaward compliance reviews.* (1) TVA may periodically conduct compliance reviews of selected recipients in their programs or activities receiving TVA financial assistance, including the request of data and information, and may conduct onsite reviews where it has reason to believe that discrimination may be occurring in such programs or activities.


(2) Selection for review shall be made on the basis of the following criteria among others:


(i) The number and nature of discrimination complaints filed against a recipient with TVA or other Federal agencies;


(ii) The scope of the problem revealed by an investigation commenced on the basis of a complaint filed with TVA against a recipient; and


(iii) The amount of assistance provided to the recipient.


(3) Within 15 days after selection of a recipient for review, TVA shall inform the recipient that it has been selected for review. The review will ordinarily be initiated by a letter requesting data pertinent to the review and advising the recipient of: 


(i) The practices to be reviewed;


(ii) The programs or activities affected by the review; 


(iii) The opportunity to make, at any time prior to receipt of the final TVA findings with respect to the review pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, a documentary submission responding to TVA which explains, validates, or otherwise addresses the practices under review; and 


(iv) The schedule under which the review will be conducted and a determination of compliance or noncompliance made. 


(4) Within 180 days of initiation of a review, TVA shall advise the recipient, in writing of:


(i) Its preliminary findings; 


(ii) Where appropriate, recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance; 


(iii) The opportunity to request TVA to engage in voluntary compliance negotiations prior to TVA's final determination of compliance or noncompliance. TVA shall notify the Assistant Attorney General at the time it notifies the recipient of any matter where recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance are made. 


(5) TVA's General Manager may extend the 180-day period set out in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for good cause shown.


(6) If, within 50 days of the recipient's notification under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, TVA's recommendations for compliance are not met or voluntary compliance is not secured, and the preliminary findings have not been rebutted to TVA's satisfaction, TVA shall make a final determination of compliance or noncompliance. The determination is to be made no later than 14 days after the conclusion of the 50-day negotiation period. TVA's General Manager may extend the 14-day period for good cause shown. 


(7) Where TVA makes a formal determination of noncompliance on a postaward review, the recipient and the Assistant Attorney General shall be immediately notified in writing of the determination and of the fact that the recipient has an additional 10 days in which to come into voluntary compliance. If voluntary compliance has not been achieved within the 10 days, TVA shall institute proceedings under § 1302.8 of this part. 


(8) All agreements to come into voluntary compliance shall be in writing and signed by TVA and an official who has authority to legally bind the recipient. 


(c) *Complaint investigation.* (1) TVA shall investigate complaints of discrimination in a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from TVA that allege a violation of Title VI or this part. 


(2) No complaint will be investigated if it is received by TVA more than 180 days after the date of the alleged discrimination unless the time for filing is extended by TVA for good cause shown. Where a complaint is accepted for investigation, TVA will initiate an investigation. The complainant shall be notified in writing as to whether the complaint has been accepted or rejected. 


(3) TVA shall conduct investigations of complaints as follows: 


(i) Within 10 days of receipt of a complaint, the Director of Equal Opportunity Compliance shall: 


(A) Determine whether TVA has jurisdiction under paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section;


(B) If jurisdiction is not found, wherever possible refer the complaint to the Federal agency with such jurisdiction and advise the complainant; 


(C) If jurisdiction is found, notify the recipient alleged to be in violation of the receipt and acceptance of the complaint; and 


(D) Initiate the investigation.


(ii) The investigation will ordinarily be initiated by a letter to the recipient requesting data pertinent to the complaint and informing the recipient of:


(A) The nature of the complaint, and with the written consent of the complainant, the identity of the complainant;


(B) The programs or activities affected by the complaint;


(C) The opportunity to make, at any time prior to receipt of TVA's final findings under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, a documentary submission, responding to, rebutting, or denying the allegations made in the complaint; and


(D) The schedule under which the complaint will be investigated and a determination of compliance or noncompliance made.


(iii) Within 180 days of the initiation of a complaint investigation, TVA shall advise the recipient, in writing, of:


(A) Preliminary findings;


(B) Where appropriate, recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance; and


(C) The opportunity to request TVA to engage in voluntary compliance negotiations prior to TVA's final determination of compliance or noncompliance. TVA shall notify the Assistant Attorney General at the time the recipient is notified of any matter where recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance are made.


(4) If, within 50 days of the recipient's notification under paragraph (c) of this section, TVA's recommendations for compliance are not met, or voluntary compliance is not secured, and the preliminary findings have not been rebutted to TVA's satisfaction, TVA shall make a formal determination of compliance or noncompliance. The determination is to be made no later than 14 days after conclusion of a 50-day negotiation period. TVA's General Manager may extend the 14-day period for good cause shown.


(5) Where TVA makes a formal determination of noncompliance, the complainant, the recipient, and the Assistant Attorney General shall be immediately notified in writing of the determination and of the fact that the recipient has an additional 10 days in which to come into compliance. If voluntary compliance has not been achieved within the 10 days, TVA shall institute proceedings under § 1302.8 of this part. The complainant shall also be notified of any action taken including the closing of the complaint or the achievement of voluntary compliance. All agreements to come into voluntary compliance shall be in writing and signed by TVA and an official who has authority to legally bind the recipient and shall be made available to the complainant on request.


(6) If the complainant or party other than TVA has filed suit in Federal or State court alleging the same discrimination as alleged in a complaint pending before TVA, and if during TVA's investigation the trial of that suit would be in progress, TVA will consult with the Assistant Attorney General and court records to determine the need to continue or suspend the investigation and will monitor the litigation through the court docket and contacts with the complainant. Upon receipt of notice that the court has made a finding of discrimination against a recipient that would constitute a violation of this part, TVA shall institute proceedings as specified in § 1302.8 of this part. All agreements to come into voluntary compliance shall be in writing and signed by TVA and an official who has authority to legally bind the recipient.


(7) The time limits listed in paragraphs (c) (3) through (5) of this section shall be appropriately adjusted where TVA requests another Federal agency to act on the complaint. TVA shall monitor the progress of the matter through liaison with the other agency. Where the request to act does not result in timely resolution of the matter, TVA shall institute appropriate proceedings as required by this part.


(d) *Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.* No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by section 601 of Title VI or this part, or because such individual has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this part. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this regulation, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising thereunder.


(e) *Enforcement authority.* TVA's Director of Equal Opportunity Compliance, or a successor as designated by TVA's Board of Directors, will be responsible for all decisions about initiating compliance reviews and complaint investigations. TVA's General Manager, or a successor as designated by TVA's Board of Directors, shall be responsible for all decisions about initiating compliance actions under § 1302.8(a) of this part.



---

[N] [49 FR 20481, May 15, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 47383, Dec. 4, 1984; 51 FR 9649, Mar. 20, 1986; 68 FR 51355, Aug. 26, 2003]




