# ยง 1000.316   How is the Formula Current Assisted Stock (FCAS) Component developed?

The Formula Current Assisted Stock component consists of two elements. They are:


(a) *Operating subsidy.* The operating subsidy consists of three variables which are:


(1) The number of low-rent FCAS units multiplied by the national per unit subsidy;


(2) The number of Section 8 units whose contract has expired but had been under contract on September 30, 1997, multiplied by the FY 1996 national per unit subsidy; and


(3) The number of Mutual Help and Turnkey III FCAS units multiplied by the national per unit subsidy.


(b) *Modernization allocation.* (1) For Indian tribes with an Indian Housing Authority that owned or operated 250 or more public housing units on October 1, 1997, the modernization allocation equals the number of Low Rent, Mutual Help, and Turnkey III FCAS units multiplied by the national per-unit amount of allocation for FY 1996 modernization multiplied by an adjustment factor for inflation.


(2) For Indian tribes with an Indian Housing Authority that owned or operated fewer than 250 public housing units on October 1, 1997, the modernization allocation equals the average amount of funds received under the assistance program authorized by section 14 of the 1937 Act (not including funds provided as emergency assistance) for FYs 1992 through 1997.


(c) *Conversion.* Conversion of FCAS units from homeownership (Mutual Help or Turnkey III) to low-rent or from low-rent to a home ownership program.


(1) If units were converted before October 1, 1997, as evidenced by an amended ACC, then those units will be counted for formula funding and eligibility purposes as the type of unit to which they were converted.


(2) If units were converted on or after October 1, 1997, the following applies:


(i) *Funding type.* Units that converted after October 1, 1997 will be funded as the type of unit specified on the original ACC in effect on September 30, 1997.


(ii) *Continued FCAS eligibility.* Whether or not it is the first conversion, a unit converted after October 1, 1997, will be considered as the type converted to when determining continuing FCAS eligibility. A unit that is converted to low-rent will be treated as a low-rent unit for purposes of determining continuing FCAS eligibility. A unit that is converted to homeownership will be treated as a homeownership unit for purposes of determining continuing FCAS eligibility.


(3) The Indian tribe, TDHE, or IHA shall report conversions on the Formula Response Form.



---

[N] [63 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 20025, Apr. 20, 2007; 81 FR 83680, Nov. 22, 2016]




