# ยง 165.1416   Safety Zone; Tarague Basin; Anderson AFB, GU.

(a) *Location.* The following area, within the U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone (See 33 CFR 3.70-15), from the surface of the water to the ocean floor, is a safety zone: A 1-mile radius centered on 13 degrees 35 minutes 59 seconds North Latitude and 144 degrees 55 minutes 38 seconds East Longitude (NAD 1983) including the water arc between points 13 degrees 36 minutes 00 seconds North Latitude, 144 degrees 56 minutes 32 seconds East Longitude and 13 degrees 36 minutes 12 seconds North Latitude, 144 degrees 54 minutes 48 seconds East Longitude (NAD 1983).


(b) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced only during U.S. Air Force explosive ordnance disposal operations and only when an orange range flag is hoisted 1250 feet west of the Demo Pit at 13 degrees 35 minutes 59.751 seconds North Latitude and 144 degrees 55 minutes 27.4476 seconds East Longitude. In case of an emergency, an explosive ordnance disposal after daylight hours may occur in which case the orange range flag will be illuminated.


(c) *Regulations.* The general regulations governing safety zones contained in 33 CFR 165.23 apply to the zone described in paragraph (a) of this section. Entry into, transit through or within this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or a designated representative thereof.


(d) *Enforcement.* Any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer, and any other COTP representative permitted by law, may enforce this safety zone.


(e) *Waiver.* The COTP may waive any of the requirements of this rule for any person, vessel, or class of vessel upon finding that application of the safety zone is unnecessary or impractical for the purpose of maritime security.


(f) *Penalties.* Vessels or persons violating this rule are subject to the penalties set forth in 46 U.S.C. 70036 and 46 U.S.C. 70052.



---

[N] [USCG-2014-0732, 79 FR 53297, Sept. 9, 2014, as amended by USCG-2018-1049, 84 FR 7813, Mar. 5, 2019; USCG-2022-0429, 87 FR 48446, Aug. 9, 2022]




