# ยง 300.12   Analysis of supporting data.

(a) An analysis of the data provided under ยง 300.11 must be supported by an appropriate methodology developed by the Administrator.


(b) *Revenue recovery study.* (1) A study must be provided which supports the filed rate and charges, including a narrative statement that explains how the rates and charges meet the objective of recovering the revenue necessary to repay the Federal investment and other costs in a reasonable period of time.


(2) Any *Power Repayment Study* (PRS) submitted for this purpose must be developed using currently approved rates for estimating future revenues. If the filed rates differ from the current rates, the Administrator must provide a PRS which uses the level of revenues produced by the proposed rates. Unless otherwise required by statute, a PRS must contain only those investments in plant which will be in commercial operation during the proposed rate approval period, except replacements. Forecasts of costs beyond the rate test period must be based on conditions prevailing during the period, unless unusual circumstances warrant otherwise. 


(3) A PRS must include, but need not be limited to, those items listed below:


(i) Operating revenues;


(ii) Operating expenses; 


(iii) Interest expense;


(iv) Investment placed in service (using totals if the supporting statement annually shows a breakdown into the appropriate subcategories under each major heading), including the initial project, additions, replacements, and the total investment; 


(v) Investment amortized;


(vi) Remaining unamortized investment;


(vii) Allowable unamortized investment (using totals if the supporting statement annually shows a breakdown into the appropriate subcategories under each major heading), including initial project, additions, replacements, and total investment; 


(viii) Irrigation investment assigned to be repaid from power revenues (using totals if the supporting statement annually shows a breakdown into the appropriate subcategories under each major heading), including irrigation investment assigned to power, investment repaid, remaining unpaid investment, and allowable unpaid investment; and


(ix) Cumulative status of repayment. 


(c) *Cost of service study.* For any project or system which provides more than one class of service for which differing rates are proposed, a cost of service study, if available, must be provided which shows how the costs of providing each service have been determined. If rates and charges have not been formulated on a cost related basis, the basis for each rate or charge should be explained.




