# ยง 3286.107   Installation in accordance with standards.

(a) *Compliance with installation requirements.* (1) For purposes of determining installer compliance, a manufactured home that is subject to the requirements of this subpart B must be installed in accordance with:


(i) An installation design and instructions that have been provided by the manufacturer and approved by the Secretary directly or through review by the DAPIA; or


(ii) An installation design and instructions that have been prepared and certified by a professional engineer or registered architect, that have been approved by the manufacturer and the DAPIA as providing a level of protection for residents of the home that equals or exceeds the protection provided by the federal installation standards in part 3285 of this chapter.


(2) If the installation instructions do not comply with the installation standards, the manufacturer is responsible for any aspect of installation that is completed in accordance with the installation instructions and that does not comply with the installation standards.


(3) All installation work must be in conformance with accepted practices to ensure durable, livable, and safe housing, and must demonstrate acceptable workmanship reflecting, at a minimum, journeyman quality of work of the various trades.


(4) Except as set out in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all installation defects due to the work of the installer are the responsibility of the installer or retailer or manufacturer that retained the installer and must be corrected.


(5) If the manufacturer or retailer retains the installer, they are jointly and severally responsible with the installer for correcting installation defects.


(6) Installation defects must be corrected within 60 days after the date of discovery of the installation defect.


(b) *Secretarial approval of manufacturer's designs.* A manufacturer that seeks a Secretarial determination under paragraph (a) of this section that its installation designs and instructions provide protection to residents of manufactured homes that equals or exceeds the protection provided by the HUD federal installation standards in part 3285 of this chapter must send the request for such determination and a copy of the applicable designs and instructions to: Administrator, Office of Manufactured Housing Programs, HUD, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Room 9164, Washington, DC 20410-8000, or to a fax number or e-mail address obtained by calling the Office of Manufactured Housing Programs at the toll-free telephone number 1-800-927-2891, extension 57.


(c) *Compliance with construction and safety standards.* The installer must not take the home out of compliance with the construction and safety standards applicable under part 3280 of this chapter.


(d) *Homeowner installations.* The purchaser of a home sited in a state in which HUD administers the installation program may perform installation work on the home that is in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the work is certified in accordance with ยง 3286.111.


(e) *Compliance with construction and safety standards.* This rule does not alter or affect the requirements of the Act concerning compliance with the construction and safety standards, and the implementing regulations in parts 3280 and 3282 of this chapter, which apply regardless of where the work is completed.




