# § 371.1   Scope, purpose, and compliance dates.

(a) *Scope.* This part applies to each insured depository institution that qualifies as a “records entity” under the definition set forth in § 371.2(r).


(b) *Purpose.* This part establishes recordkeeping requirements with respect to qualified financial contracts for insured depository institutions that are in a troubled condition.


(c) *Compliance dates.* (1) Within 3 business days of becoming a records entity, the records entity shall provide to the FDIC, in writing, the name and contact information for the person at the records entity who is responsible for recordkeeping under this part and, unless not required to maintain files in electronic form pursuant to § 371.4(d), a directory of the electronic files that will be used to maintain the information required to be kept by this part.


(2) Except as provided in § 371.6:


(i) A records entity, other than an accelerated records entity, shall comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements of this part within 270 days after it becomes a records entity.


(ii) An accelerated records entity shall comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements of this part within 60 days after it becomes a records entity.


(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, a records entity that becomes an accelerated records entity after it became a records entity shall comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements of this part within 60 days after it becomes an accelerated records entity or its original 270 day compliance period, whichever time period is shorter.


(d) *Extensions of time to comply.* The FDIC may, in its discretion, grant one or more extensions of time for compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of this part.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no single extension for a records entity shall be for a period of more than 120 days.


(2) For a records entity that is an accelerated records entity at the time of a request for an extension, no single extension shall be for a period of more than 30 days.


(3) A records entity may request an extension of time by submitting a written request to the FDIC at least 15 days prior to the deadline for its compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of this part. The written request for an extension must contain a statement of the reasons why the records entity cannot comply by the deadline for compliance, a project plan (including timeline) for achieving compliance, and a progress report describing the steps taken to achieve compliance.




