# ยง 120.631   Suspension or termination of Pool Assembler.

(a) *Suspension or termination.* The D/FA may suspend a Pool Assembler from operating in the Secondary Market for up to 18 months or terminate its status as a Pool Assembler, if the Pool Assembler (and/or its Associates):


(1) Does not comply with any of the requirements in ยง 120.630 (a) and (c); 


(2) Has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with, or convicted of, a misdemeanor or felony;


(3) Has received an adverse civil judgment that it has committed a breach of trust or a violation of a law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships;


(4) Has not formed a Pool for at least three years; or


(5) Is under investigation by its regulating authority for activities which may affect its fitness to participate in the Secondary Market.


(b) *Suspension procedures.* The D/FA shall notify a Pool Assembler by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the decision to suspend and the reasons therefore at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of the suspension. The Pool Assembler may appeal the suspension made under this section pursuant to the procedures set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The action of the D/FA shall remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal.


(c) *Notice of termination.* In order to terminate a Pool Assembler, the D/FA must issue an order to show cause why the SBA should not terminate the Pool Assembler's participation in the Secondary Market. The Pool Assembler may appeal the termination made under this section pursuant to procedures set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The action of the D/FA shall remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal.




