# § 1.6050H-3   Information reporting of mortgage insurance premiums.

(a) *Information reporting requirements.* Any person who, in the course of a trade or business, receives premiums, including prepaid premiums, for mortgage insurance (as described in paragraph (b) of this section) from any individual aggregating $600 or more for any calendar year, must make an information return setting forth the total amount received from that individual during the calendar year.


(b) *Scope.* Paragraph (a) of this section applies to mortgage insurance provided by the Federal Housing Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, or the Rural Housing Service (or their successor organizations), or to private mortgage insurance (as defined by section 2 of the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 (12 U.S.C. 4901) as in effect on December 20, 2006). The rule stated in paragraph (a) of this section applies to the receipt of all payments of mortgage insurance premiums, by cash or financing, without regard to source.


(c) *Aggregation.* Whether a person receives $600 or more of mortgage insurance premiums is determined on a mortgage-by-mortgage basis. A recipient need not aggregate mortgage insurance premiums received on all of the mortgages of an individual to determine whether the $600 threshold is met. Therefore, a recipient need not report mortgage insurance premiums of less than $600 received on a mortgage, even though it receives a total of $600 or more of mortgage insurance premiums on all of the mortgages for an individual for a calendar year.


(d) *Time, form, and manner of reporting.* Mortgage insurance premiums required to be reported under paragraph (a) of this section must be reported on the Form 1098 or successor form that is filed pursuant to § 1.6050H-2(a) with respect to the mortgage of the individual who paid the mortgage insurance premiums. For the requirements for furnishing statements with respect to Forms 1098 filed with the Internal Revenue Service, see § 1.6050H-2(b).


(e) *Cross reference.* For rules concerning the allocation of certain prepaid qualified mortgage insurance premiums, see § 1.163-11 of this chapter.


(f) *Limitation on the reporting of mortgage insurance premiums.* This section applies to mortgage insurance premiums described in paragraph (b) of this section that are paid or accrued on or after January 1, 2013, and during periods to which section 163(h)(3)(E) applies. This section does not apply to any amounts of mortgage insurance premiums that are allocable to any periods to which section 163(h)(3)(E) does not apply.


(g) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to mortgage insurance premiums received on or after January 1, 2013. For regulations applicable before May 5, 2012, see § 1.6050H-3T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 (revised as of April 1, 2012).



---

[N] [T.D. 9642, 78 FR 70858, Nov. 27, 2013]




