# ยง 198.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Administrator* means the Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration or his or her delegate.


*Adopt* means establish under State law by statute, regulation, license, certification, order, or any combination of these legal means.


*Excavation activity* means an excavation activity defined in ยง 192.614(a) of this chapter, other than a specific activity the State determines would not be expected to cause physical damage to underground facilities.


*Excavator* means any person intending to engage in an excavation activity.


*One-call notification system* means a communication system that qualifies under this part and the one-call damage prevention program of the State concerned in which an operational center receives notices from excavators of intended excavation activities and transmits the notices to operators of underground pipeline facilities and other underground facilities that participate in the system.


*Person* means any individual, firm, joint venture, partnership, corporation, association, state, municipality, cooperative association, or joint stock association, and including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof.


*Underground pipeline facilities* means buried pipeline facilities used in the transportation of gas or hazardous liquid subject to the pipeline safety laws (49 U.S.C. 60101 *et seq.*). 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation or any person to whom the Secretary of Transportation has delegated authority in the matter concerned.


*Seeking to adopt* means actively and effectively proceeding toward adoption.


*State* means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.



---

[N] [55 FR 38691, Sept. 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 198-2, 61 FR 18518, Apr. 26, 1996; 68 FR 11750, Mar. 12, 2003; 70 FR 11140, Mar. 8, 2005]




