# § 192.281   Plastic pipe.

(a) *General.* A plastic pipe joint that is joined by solvent cement, adhesive, or heat fusion may not be disturbed until it has properly set. Plastic pipe may not be joined by a threaded joint or miter joint.


(b) *Solvent cement joints.* Each solvent cement joint on plastic pipe must comply with the following:


(1) The mating surfaces of the joint must be clean, dry, and free of material which might be detrimental to the joint.


(2) The solvent cement must conform to ASTM D2564-12 for PVC (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7).


(3) The joint may not be heated or cooled to accelerate the setting of the cement.


(c) *Heat-fusion joints.* Each heat fusion joint on a PE pipe or component, except for electrofusion joints, must comply with ASTM F2620 (incorporated by reference in § 192.7), or an alternative written procedure that has been demonstrated to provide an equivalent or superior level of safety and has been proven by test or experience to produce strong gastight joints, and the following:


(1) A butt heat-fusion joint must be joined by a device that holds the heater element square to the ends of the pipe or component, compresses the heated ends together, and holds the pipe in proper alignment in accordance with the appropriate procedure qualified under § 192.283.


(2) A socket heat-fusion joint must be joined by a device that heats the mating surfaces of the pipe or component, uniformly and simultaneously, to establish the same temperature. The device used must be the same device specified in the operator's joining procedure for socket fusion.


(3) An electrofusion joint must be made using the equipment and techniques prescribed by the fitting manufacturer, or using equipment and techniques shown, by testing joints to the requirements of § 192.283(a)(1)(iii), to be equivalent to or better than the requirements of the fitting manufacturer.


(4) Heat may not be applied with a torch or other open flame.


(d) *Adhesive joints.* Each adhesive joint on plastic pipe must comply with the following: 


(1) The adhesive must conform to ASTM D 2517 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7). 


(2) The materials and adhesive must be compatible with each other. 


(e) *Mechanical joints.* Each compression type mechanical joint on plastic pipe must comply with the following: 


(1) The gasket material in the coupling must be compatible with the plastic. 


(2) A rigid internal tubular stiffener, other than a split tubular stiffener, must be used in conjunction with the coupling. 


(3) All mechanical fittings must meet a listed specification based upon the applicable material.


(4) All mechanical joints or fittings installed after January 22, 2019, must be Category 1 as defined by a listed specification for the applicable material, providing a seal plus resistance to a force on the pipe joint equal to or greater than that which will cause no less than 25% elongation of pipe, or the pipe fails outside the joint area if tested in accordance with the applicable standard.



---

[N] [35 FR 13257, Aug. 19, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 192-34, 44 FR 42973, July 23, 1979; Amdt. 192-58, 53 FR 1635, Jan. 21, 1988; Amdt. 192-61, 53 FR 36793, Sept. 22, 1988; 58 FR 14521, Mar. 18, 1993; Amdt. 192-78, 61 FR 28784, June 6, 1996; Amdt. 192-114, 75 FR 48603, Aug. 11, 2010; Amdt. 192-119, 80 FR 181, Jan. 5, 2015; Amdt. 192-124, 83 FR 58718, Nov. 20, 2018; 86 FR 2240, Jan. 11, 2021]




