# ยง 503.46   Frequency of monitoring.

(a) *Sewage sludge.* (1) The frequency of monitoring for beryllium shall be as required in subpart C of 40 CFR part 61, and for mercury as required in subpart E of 40 CFR part 61.


(2) The frequency of monitoring for arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, and nickel in sewage sludge fed to a sewage sludge incinerator shall be the frequency in Table 1 of ยง 503.46. 


(3) After the sewage sludge has been monitored for two years at the frequency in Table 1 of ยง 503.46, the permitting authority may reduce the frequency of monitoring for arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, and nickel.


(b) *Total hydrocarbons, oxygen concentration, information to determine moisture content, and combustion temperatures.* The total hydrocarbons concentration and oxygen concentration in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack, the information used to measure moisture content in the exit gas, and the combustion temperatures for the sewage sludge incinerator shall be monitored continuously. 


(c) *Air pollution control device operating parameters.* For sewage sludge incinerators subject to the requirements in subpart O of 40 CFR part 60, the frequency of monitoring for the appropriate air pollution control device operating parameters shall be the frequency of monitoring in subpart O of 40 CFR part 60. For all other sewage sludge incinerators, the appropriate air pollution control device operating parameters shall be at least daily.



---

[N] [58 FR 9387, Feb. 19, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 42573, Aug. 4, 1999]




