# § 503.8   No alternate power supply—general requirement for certain exemptions for new powerplants.

(a) *Application.* To qualify for an exemption, except in the case of an exemption for cogeneration units, section 213(c) of the Act requires a demonstration that, despite reasonable good faith efforts, there is no alternative supply of electric power available within a reasonable distance at a reasonable cost without impairing short-run or long-run reliability of service. If a petitioner is unable to demonstrate that there is no alternate supply during the first year of operation, OFE will conclude that the absence of the proposed powerplant will not impair short-term reliability of service, and as a result will not grant the exemption. Such action would not impair long-term reliability of service, since a petition may be submitted for a powerplant that would begin operation in a subsequent year.


(b) *Criteria.* To meet the demonstration required under paragraph (a) of this section, a petitioner must certify that:


(1) A diligent effort has been made to purchase firm power for the first year of operation to cover all or part of the projected shortfall at a cost that is less than ten (10) percent above the annualized cost of generating power from the proposed plant (including the capital, operation and maintenance expenses, and fuel prices); and


(2)(i) Despite these efforts, the reserve margin in the petitioner's electric region, normal dispatch area, or service area, in the absence of the proposed plant, would fall below twenty (20) percent during the first year of proposed operation; or


(ii) Despite these efforts, the reserve margin will be greater than twenty (20) percent but reliability of service would be impaired. In such case, the certification must be related to factors not included in the calculation of reserve margin, such as transmission constraints.


(c) *Evidence.* The petition must include the following evidence in order to make the demonstration required by this section:


(1) Duly executed certification required under paragraph (b) of this section; and


(2) Exhibits containing the basis for the certification submitted under this section (including those factual and analytical materials deemed by the petitioner to be sufficient to support its certification to this general requirement).


(d) *FERC consultation.* OFE will forward a copy of any petition for which a showing is required under this section to FERC promptly after it is filed with OFE, and OFE will consult with FERC before making the no alternate supply of power finding.



---

[N] [46 FR 59903, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 15314, Apr. 9, 1982; 54 FR 52894, Dec. 22, 1989] 




