# § 63.2281   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 9 to this subpart that applies to you.


(b) Unless the EPA Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report by the date in Table 9 to this subpart and as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2233 ending on June 30 or December 31, and lasting at least 6 months, but less than 12 months. For example, if your compliance date is March 1, then the first semiannual reporting period would begin on March 1 and end on December 31.


(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31 for compliance periods ending on June 30 and December 31, respectively.


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31 for the semiannual reporting period ending on June 30 and December 31, respectively.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(6) After August 13, 2020 for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, and on and after August 13, 2021 for all other affected sources, submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in paragraphs (h), (k) and (l) of this section.


(c) The compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) Company name and address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) If you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your SSMP, the compliance report must include the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(i) before August 13, 2021 for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction before September 6, 2019. After August 13, 2020 for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, and on and after August 13, 2021 for all other affected sources, the compliance report must include the number of instances and total amount of time during the reporting period in which each of the startup/shutdown work practice requirements in Table 3 to this subpart (rows 6 through 8) is used in place of the otherwise applicable compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements (in Table 3 to this subpart rows 1 through 5). If a startup/shutdown work practice in Table 3 to this subpart (rows 6 through 8) is used for more than a total of 100 hours during the semiannual reporting period, you must report the date, time and duration of each instance when that startup/shutdown work practice was used.


(5) A description of control device maintenance performed while the control device was offline and one or more of the process units controlled by the control device was operating, including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The date and time when the control device was shut down and restarted.


(ii) Identification of the process units that were operating and the number of hours that each process unit operated while the control device was offline.


(iii) A statement of whether or not the control device maintenance was included in your approved routine control device maintenance exemption developed pursuant to § 63.2251. If the control device maintenance was included in your approved routine control device maintenance exemption, then you must report the information in paragraphs (c)(5)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The total amount of time that each process unit controlled by the control device operated during the semiannual compliance period and during the previous semiannual compliance period.


(B) The amount of time that each process unit controlled by the control device operated while the control device was down for maintenance covered under the routine control device maintenance exemption during the semiannual compliance period and during the previous semiannual compliance period.


(C) Based on the information recorded under paragraphs (c)(5)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process unit, compute the annual percent of process unit operating uptime during which the control device was offline for routine maintenance using Equation 1 of this section. 


(6) [Reserved]


(7) If there are no deviations from any applicable compliance option or operating requirement, and there are no deviations from the requirements for work practice requirements in Table 8 to this subpart, a statement that there were no deviations from the compliance options, operating requirements, or work practice requirements during the reporting period.


(8) If there were no periods during which the continuous monitoring system (CMS), including CEMS and CPMS, was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(d) For each deviation from a compliance option or operating requirement and for each deviation from the work practice requirements in Table 8 to this subpart that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a CMS to comply with the compliance options, operating requirements, or work practice requirements in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section and in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction and routine control device maintenance.


(1) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(2) Information on the date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(e) For each deviation from a compliance option, operating requirement, or work practice requirement occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with the compliance options, operating requirements, or work practice requirements in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) and (e)(1) through (13) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction and routine control device maintenance.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) The date, time, and duration that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(3) The date, time, and duration that each CMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(4) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction; during a period of control device maintenance covered in your approved routine control device maintenance exemption; or during another period.


(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(6) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control system problems, control device maintenance, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(7) A summary of the total duration of CMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(8) A brief description of the process units.


(9) A brief description of the CMS.


(10) The date of the latest CMS certification or audit.


(11) A description of any changes in CMS, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(12) For any failure to meet a compliance option in § 63.2240, including the compliance options in Table 1A or 1B to this subpart or the emissions averaging compliance option, provide an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(13) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(f) If you comply with the emissions averaging compliance option in § 63.2240(c), you must include in your semiannual compliance report calculations based on operating data from the semiannual reporting period that demonstrate that actual mass removal equals or exceeds the required mass removal.


(g) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a compliance report pursuant to Table 9 to this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any compliance option, operating requirement, or work practice requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority. 


(h) If you are required to submit reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (h), you must submit reports to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. For semiannual compliance reports required in this section and Table 9 (row 1) to this subpart, you must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri*) for this subpart once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. If the reporting form for the semiannual compliance report specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. You must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI in the first full reporting period after the report template for this subpart has been available in CEDRI for 1 year. Initial Notifications developed according to § 63.2280(b) and Notifications of Compliance Status developed according to § 63.2280(d) may be uploaded in a user-specified format such as portable document format (PDF). The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if persons wish to assert a CBI claim, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment and requires EPA to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential Business Information (CBI).* The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you claim some of the information submitted under this paragraph (i) is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in this paragraph (i). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment and requires EPA to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(j) Within 60 days after the date of completing each continuous monitoring system (CMS) performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) *Performance evaluations of CMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation.* Submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX. The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Performance evaluations of CMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation.* The results of the performance evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential Business Information (CBI).* The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you claim some of the information submitted under this paragraph (j) is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in this paragraph (j). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment and requires EPA to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(k) If you are required to electronically submit a report or notification through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX by this subpart, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal reporting requirement in this section. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (k)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the electronic submittal requirement in this subpart at the time of the notification, the date you submitted the report.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(l) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX by this subpart, you may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement in this section. To assert a claim of *force majeure,* you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the *force majeure* event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the electronic submittal requirement in this subpart at the time of the notification, the date you submitted the report.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs.



---

[N] [69 FR 46011, July 30, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 49457, Aug. 13, 2020]




