# § 36.23   Standard VIII—Junior high/middle school instructional program.

(a) The instructional program shall reflect the school's philosophy and the needs of the students and the community. It shall be part of a progressive development that begins in the elementary program which precedes it and continues to the secondary program which follows.


(b) The curriculum shall include the following required instructional content areas at each grade level but need not be limited to:


(1) *Language arts.* One unit shall be required of each student every year.


(2) *Social studies.* One unit shall be required of each student every year.


(3) *Mathematics.* One unit shall be required of each student every year.


(4) *Science.* One unit shall be required of each student every year.


(5) *Fine arts and practical arts.* One unit each shall be required of each student in the junior high/middle school instructional program.


(6) *Computer literacy.* One unit shall be required of each student in the junior high/middle school instructional program.


(7) *Physical education.* One unit shall be required of each student in the junior high/middle school instructional program.


(c) The following content areas shall be integrated into the curriculum.


(1) Career exploration and orientation.


(2) Environmental and safety education.


(3) Metric education.


(4) Consumer economics (including personal finances).


(5) Health education (includes meeting the requirements contained in 24 Stat. 69).


(d) Languages other than English are encouraged to be offered as a content area beginning at junior high/middle school level.


(e) Student enrollment in any laboratory or vocational exploration class shall be consistent with applicable health and safety standards.




