# ยง 52.120   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth the applicable State implementation plan for the State of Arizona under section 110 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q and 40 CFR part 51 to meet national ambient air quality standards.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with an EPA approval date prior to June 30, 2016, was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Entries in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with the EPA approval dates after June 30, 2016 have been approved by EPA for inclusion in the State implementation plan and for incorporation by reference into the plan as it is contained in this section, and will be considered by the Director of the Federal Register for approval in the next update to the SIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region IX certifies that the materials provided by EPA at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated state rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the state implementation plan as of the dates referenced in paragraph (b)(1).


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference into the state implementation plan may be inspected at the Region IX EPA Office at 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105; or the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). To obtain the material, please call the Regional Office. You may also inspect the material with an EPA approval date prior to June 30, 2016 at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*.



(c) *EPA-approved regulations.*

(d) *EPA-approved source-specific requirements.*

(e) *EPA-approved Arizona nonregulatory provisions and quasi-regulatory measures.*


---

[N] [81 FR 85040, Nov. 23, 2016]


