# ยง 35.92   Certification and acknowledgment of disclosure.

(a) *Seller requirements.* Each contract to sell target housing shall include an attachment containing the following elements, in the language of the contract (e.g., English, Spanish):


(1) A Lead Warning Statement consisting of the following language:


(2) A statement by the seller disclosing the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being sold or indicating no knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The seller shall also provide any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.


(3) A list of any records or reports available to the seller pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing that have been provided to the purchaser. If no such records or reports are available, the seller shall so indicate.


(4) A statement by the purchaser affirming receipt of the information set out in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section and the lead hazard information pamphlet required under section 15 U.S.C. 2696.


(5) A statement by the purchaser that he/she has either:


(i) Received the opportunity to conduct the risk assessment or inspection required by ยง 35.90(a); or


(ii) Waived the opportunity.


(6) When any agent is involved in the transaction to sell target housing on behalf of the seller, a statement that:


(i) The agent has informed the seller of the seller's obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4852d; and


(ii) The agent is aware of his/her duty to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.


(7) The signatures of the sellers, agents, and purchasers, certifying to the accuracy of their statements, to the best of their knowledge, along with the dates of signature.


(b) *Lessor requirements.* Each contract to lease target housing shall include, as an attachment or within the contract, the following elements, in the language of the contract (e.g., English, Spanish):


(1) A Lead Warning Statement with the following language:


(2) A statement by the lessor disclosing the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being leased or indicating no knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The lessor shall also disclose any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist in the housing, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.


(3) A list of any records or reports available to the lessor pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing that have been provided to the lessee. If no such records or reports are available, the lessor shall so indicate.


(4) A statement by the lessee affirming receipt of the information set out in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section and the lead hazard information pamphlet required under 15 U.S.C. 2696.


(5) When any agent is involved in the transaction to lease target housing on behalf of the lessor, a statement that:


(i) The agent has informed the lessor of the lessor's obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4852d; and


(ii) The agent is aware of his/her duty to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.


(6) The signatures of the lessors, agents, and lessees certifying to the accuracy of their statements to the best of their knowledge, along with the dates of signature.


(c) *Retention of certification and acknowledgment information.* (1) The seller, and any agent, shall retain a copy of the completed attachment required under paragraph (a) of this section for no less than 3 years from the completion date of the sale. The lessor, and any agent, shall retain a copy of the completed attachment or lease contract containing the information required under paragraph (b) of this section for no less than 3 years from the commencement of the leasing period.


(2) This recordkeeping requirement is not intended to place any limitations on civil suits under the Act, or to otherwise affect a lessee's or purchaser's rights under the civil penalty provisions of 42 U.S.C. 4852d(b)(3). 


(d) The seller, lessor, or agent shall not be responsible for the failure of a purchaser's or lessee's legal representative (where such representative receives all compensation from the purchaser or lessee) to transmit disclosure materials to the purchaser or lessee, provided that all required parties have completed and signed the necessary certification and acknowledgment language required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 9082, Mar. 6, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 14382, Mar. 25, 1999]




