# § 7.51   Curecanti National Recreation Area.

(a) *Hunting.* Hunting is allowed at times and locations designated as open for hunting. 


(b) *Trapping.* Trapping is allowed at times and locations designated as open for trapping. 


(c) *Snowmobiles.* Operating a snowmobile is allowed within the boundaries of Curecanti National Recreation Area under the following conditions:


(1) That the operators and machines conform to the laws and regulations governing the use of snowmobiles as stated in this chapter and those applicable to snowmobile use promulgated by the State of Colorado where they prove to be more stringent or restrictive than those of the Department of the Interior.


(2) *Designated water surface and routes.* Snowmobile use is confined to the following water surface and routes:


(i) The frozen surface of Blue Mesa Reservoir; and


(ii) Lake Fork Visitor Center access point, McIntyre Gulch access point, Sapinero Beach access point, Dillon Pinnacles access point, Windsurf Beach access point, Elk Creek Marina, Dry Creek access point, North Willow access point, Old Stevens access point, Iola access point, Willow Creek access point, and the most direct route from each of these access points to the frozen surface of Blue Mesa Reservoir.


(3) *Identification of designated water surface and routes.* The designated water surface and routes are identified on maps available at the office of the Superintendent, Elk Creek Visitor Center, Lake Fork Visitor Center, Cimarron Visitor Center, and on the recreation area Web site.


(4) *Snowmobile requirements.* Snowmobiles are limited to a maximum of 1200 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW), including cargo but excluding the weight of the driver and any passenger.


(d) *Personal Watercraft (PWC).* PWC may operate within Curecanti National Recreation Area in the following designated areas and under the following conditions:


(1) PWC may operate and land on Blue Mesa Reservoir between Beaver Creek and Blue Mesa dam, except that PWC may not operate in the buoyed barricaded section in the vicinity of the dam.


(2) PWC must operate at “flat wake” speeds within Blue Mesa Reservoir in the following areas upstream of designated buoys:


(i) Soap Creek arm at approximate longitude 107°8′9″ N latitude 38°30′16″ W.


(ii) West Elk arm at approximate longitude 107°16′45″ N latitude 38°29′43″ W.


(iii) Cebolla arm at approximate longitude 107°12′16″ N latitude 38°27′37″ W.


(iv) Lake Fork arm at approximate longitude 107°18′19″ N latitude 38°27′2″ W.


(3) PWC must operate at “flat wake” speeds in the following areas:


(i) Within 100′ of shoreline inside Dry Creek cove.


(ii) Within 500′ of shoreline along old highway 50 and Bay of Chickens.


(iii) Within the buoyed area around Elk Creek and Lake Fork marinas.


(iv) Within the buoyed area at Iola, Stevens Creek, and Ponderosa boat launch.


(v) From Lake city bridge east to Beaver Creek.


(vi) Within 100′ of shoreline adjacent to Stevens Creek campground.


(4) PWC may only be launched from designated boat launch sites.


(e) *Off-road motor vehicle use.* Operating a motor vehicle is allowed within the boundaries of Curecanti National Recreation Area off park roads under the following conditions:


(1) *Designated routes and areas.* Motor vehicle use off park roads is confined to the following routes and areas:


(i) Via the access points and routes listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, directly to the frozen surface of Blue Mesa Reservoir;


(ii) A maximum area of approximately 958 acres of the exposed lake bottom of Blue Mesa Reservoir between the high-water mark and the water of the reservoir; and


(iii) Posted designated access routes through the recreation area described and selected in the Curecanti Motor Vehicle Access Plan/Finding of No Significant Impact dated July 10, 2012.


(2) *Identification of designated routes and areas.* These routes and areas are identified on Maps 6a and 6b, dated January 1, 2011, which are available at the office of the Superintendent, Elk Creek Visitor Center, Lake Fork Visitor Center, Cimarron Visitor Center, and on the recreation area Web site.


(3) *Vehicle requirements.* Motor vehicles operating off park roads must meet the following requirements:


(i) Wheelbase width must not exceed 8 feet, 6 inches.


(ii) Maximum gross vehicle weight for motor vehicle use on the frozen surface of Blue Mesa Reservoir is 1800 pounds GVW, including cargo but excluding the weight of the driver and any passenger. This restricts vehicle use on the frozen surface to all-terrain and utility task type vehicles.


(4) *Speed limits.* Unless otherwise posted, motor vehicles may not exceed 15 miles per hour on designated off-road routes and areas.


(f) *Superintendent's authority.* The Superintendent may open or close designated routes, water surfaces, access points, or areas open to snowmobile, PWC, or off-road motor vehicle use, or portions thereof, or impose conditions or restrictions for snowmobile, PWC, or off-road motor vehicle use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.


(1) The Superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7 of this chapter.


(2) Violating a closure, condition or restriction is prohibited.



---

[N] [49 FR 18451, Apr. 30, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 34480, Aug. 31, 1984; 71 FR 55119, Sept. 21, 2006; 78 FR 72031, Dec. 2, 2013]




