# § 61.11   Capital grants—application packages.

(a) *General.* To apply for a capital grant, an applicant must obtain from, complete, and submit to VA a capital grant application package within the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability.


(b) *Content of application.* The capital grant application package will require the following:


(1) Site description, site design, and site cost estimates.


(2) Documentation supporting:


(i) Eligibility to receive a capital grant under this part;


(ii) Matching funds committed to the project;


(iii) A proposed operating budget and cost sharing;


(iv) Supportive services committed to the project;


(v) The applicant's authority to control the site and meet appropriate zoning laws; and


(vi) The boundaries of the area or community that would be served.


(3) If capital grant funds would be used for acquisition or rehabilitation, documentation demonstrating that the costs associated with acquisition or rehabilitation are less than the costs associated with new construction.


(4) If capital grant funds would be used for new construction, documentation demonstrating that the costs associated with new construction are less than the costs associated with rehabilitation of an existing building, that there is a lack of available appropriate units that could be rehabilitated at a cost less than new construction, and that new construction is less costly than acquisition of an existing building (for purposes of this cost comparison, costs associated with rehabilitation or new construction may include the cost of real property acquisition).


(5) If proposed construction includes demolition:


(i) A demolition plan that describes the extent and cost of existing site features to be removed, stored, or relocated; and


(ii) Information establishing that the proposed construction is either in the same location as the building to be demolished or that the demolition is inextricably linked to the design of the construction project. Without such information, the cost of demolition cannot be included in the cost of construction.


(6) If the applicant is a state, comments or recommendations by appropriate state (and area wide) clearinghouses pursuant to E.O. 12372 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197).


(7) A statement from the applicant that all of the following are true:


(i) The project will furnish to veterans the level of care for which such application is made, and services provided will meet the requirements of this part.


(ii) The applicant will continue to operate the project until the expiration of the period during which VA could seek full recovery under § 61.67.


(iii) Title to the site will vest solely in the applicant and the applicant will insure the site to the same extent they would insure a site bought with their own funds.


(iv) Adequate financial support will be available for the completion of the project.


(v) The applicant will keep records and submit reports as VA may reasonably require, within the time frames required, and, upon demand, allow VA access to the records upon which such information is based.


(vi) The applicant will state that no more than 25 percent of the grant-awarded beds are occupied by non-veterans.


(c) *Multiple capital grant applications.* Subject to § 61.12(i), applicants may apply for more than one capital grant.


