# ยง 52.27   Protection of visibility from sources in attainment areas.

(a) *Plan disapproval.* The provisions of this section are applicable to any State implementation plan which has been disapproved with respect to protection of visibility, in mandatory Class I Federal areas, from sources emitting pollutants in any portion of any State where the existing air quality is better than the national ambient air quality standards for such pollutants, and where a State PSD program has been approved as part of the applicable SIP pursuant to 40 CFR 51.24. Specific disapprovals are listed where applicable in Subparts B through DDD of this part. The provisions of this section have been incorporated by reference into the applicable implementation plans for various States, as provided in Subparts B through DDD of this part.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, all terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Clean Air Act, in the prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) program approved as part of the applicable SIP pursuant to 40 CFR 51.24 for the State, or in the protection of visibility program (40 CFR 51.301), all as in effect on July 12, 1985.


(c) *Federal visibility analysis.* Any person shall have the right, in connection with any application for a permit to construct a major stationary source or major modification, to request that the administrator take responsibility from the State for conducting the required review of a proposed source's impact on visibility in any Federal Class I area. If requested, the Administrator shall take such responsibility and conduct such review pursuant to paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section in any case where the State fails to provide all of the procedural steps listed in paragraph (d) of this section. A request pursuant to this paragraph must be made within 60 days of the notice soliciting public comment on a permit, unless such notice is not properly given. The Administrator will not entertain requests challenging the substance of any state action concerning visibility where the State has provided all of the procedural steps listed in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Procedural steps in visibility review.* (1) The reviewing authority must provide written notification to all affected Federal land managers of any permit application for any proposed new major stationary source or major modification that may affect visibility in any Federal Class I area. Such notification shall include a copy of all information relevant to the permit application and shall be given within 30 days of receipt and at least 60 days prior to any public hearing on the application for a permit to construct. Such notification shall include the proposed source's anticipated impacts on visibility in any Federal Class I area as provided by the applicant. Notification must also be given to all affected Federal land managers within 30 days of receipt of any advance notification of any such permit application.


(2) The reviewing authority must consider any analysis performed by the Federal land managers, provided within 30 days of the notification required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, that shows that such proposed new major stationary source or major modification may have:


(i) An adverse impact on visibility in any Federal Class I area, or


(ii) An adverse impact on visibility in an integral vista codified in part 81 of this title.


(3) Where the reviewing authority finds that such an analysis does not demonstrate that the effect in paragraphs (d)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section will occur, either an explanation of its decision or notification as to where the explanation can be obtained must be included in the notice of public hearing.


(4) Where the reviewing authority finds that such an analysis does demonstrate that the effect in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section will occur, the permit shall not be issued.


(5) Where the reviewing authority finds that such an analysis does demonstrate that the effect in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section will occur, the reviewing authority may issue a permit if the emissions from the source or modification will be consistent with reasonable progress toward the national goal. In making this decision, the reviewing authority may take into account the costs of compliance, the time necessary for compliance, the energy and nonair quality environmental impacts of compliance, and the useful life of the source.


(e) *Federal land manager notification.* The Administrator shall provide all of the procedural steps listed in paragraph (d) of this section in conducting reviews pursuant to this section.


(f) *Monitoring.* The Administrator may require monitoring of visibility in any Federal Class I area near the proposed new stationary source or major modification for such purposes and by such means as the Administrator deems necessary and appropriate.


(g) *Public participation.* The Administrator shall follow the applicable procedures at 40 CFR part 124 in conducting reviews under this section. The Administrator shall follow the procedures at 40 CFR 52.21(q) as in effect on August 7, 1980, to the extent that the procedures of 40 CFR part 124 do not apply.


(h) *Federal permit.* In any case where the Administrator has made a finding that a State consistently fails or is unable to provide the procedural steps listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the Administrator shall require all prospective permit applicants in such State to apply directly to the Administrator, and the Administrator shall conduct a visibility review pursuant to this section for all permit applications.



---

[N] [50 FR 28551, July 12, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 45137, Nov. 24, 1987]




