# § 301.7430-8   Administrative costs incurred in damage actions for violations of section 362 or 524 of the Bankruptcy Code.

(a) *In general.* The Internal Revenue Service may grant a taxpayer's request for recovery of reasonable administrative costs incurred in connection with the administrative proceeding before the Internal Revenue Service relating to the willful violation of section 362 or 524 of the Bankruptcy Code only if the taxpayer is a prevailing party. 


(b) *Prevailing party.* A taxpayer is a prevailing party for purposes of this section only if— 


(1) The taxpayer satisfies the net worth and size limitations in paragraph (f) of § 301.7430-5; 


(2) The taxpayer establishes that in connection with the collection of his or her federal tax an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service has willfully violated a provision of section 362 or 524 of the Bankruptcy Code; and 


(3) The position of the Internal Revenue Service in the proceeding was not substantially justified. 


(c) *Administrative proceeding.* For purposes of this section, an administrative proceeding is a proceeding related to an administrative claim presented to the Internal Revenue Service seeking relief from a violation of section 362 or 524 of the Bankruptcy Code by the Internal Revenue Service or recovery of damages from the Internal Revenue Service under § 301.7433-2(e). 


(d) *Costs incurred after filing of bankruptcy petition.* Administrative costs may be recovered only if incurred on or after the date of filing of the bankruptcy petition that formed the basis for the stay on collection under Bankruptcy Code section 362 or the discharge injunction under Bankruptcy Code section 524, as the case might be. 


(e) *Time for filing claim for administrative costs.* (1) For purposes of this section, the taxpayer must file a claim for administrative costs before the Internal Revenue Service not later than 90 days after the date the Internal Revenue Service mails to the taxpayer, or otherwise notifies the taxpayer of, the decision regarding the claim for relief from or damages relating to a violation of the collection stay or the discharge injunction. 


(2) If the Internal Revenue Service denies the claim for administrative costs in whole or in part, the taxpayer must file a petition with the Bankruptcy Court for administrative costs no later than 90 days after the date on which the denial of the claim for administrative costs is mailed, or otherwise furnished, to the taxpayer. If the Internal Revenue Service does not respond on the merits to a request by the taxpayer for an award of reasonable administrative costs within six months after such request is filed, the Internal Revenue Service's failure to respond may be considered by the taxpayer as a denial of an award of reasonable administrative costs. 


(3) For purposes of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, if the 90th day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the 90-day period shall end on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. The term legal holiday means a legal holiday in the District of Columbia. If the request for costs is to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service at an office of the Internal Revenue Service located outside the District of Columbia, the term legal holiday also means a statewide legal holiday in the state where such office is located. 


(f) *Effective date.* This section is applicable with respect to actions taken by the Internal Revenue Service after July 22, 1998.



---

[N] [T.D. 9050, 68 FR 14320, Mar. 25, 2003]




