# § 404.946   Issues before an administrative law judge.

(a) *General.* The issues before the administrative law judge include all the issues brought out in the initial, reconsidered or revised determination that were not decided entirely in your favor. However, if evidence presented before or during the hearing causes the administrative law judge to question a fully favorable determination, he or she will notify you and will consider it an issue at the hearing.


(b) *New issues*—(1) *General.* The administrative law judge may consider a new issue at the hearing if he or she notifies you and all the parties about the new issue any time after receiving the hearing request and before mailing notice of the hearing decision. The administrative law judge or any party may raise a new issue; an issue may be raised even though it arose after the request for a hearing and even though it has not been considered in an initial or reconsidered determination. However, it may not be raised if it involves a claim that is within the jurisdiction of a State agency under a Federal-State agreement concerning the determination of disability.


(2) *Notice of a new issue.* The administrative law judge shall notify you and any other party if he or she will consider any new issue. Notice of the time and place of the hearing on any new issues will be given in the manner described in § 404.938, unless you have indicated in writing that you do not wish to receive the notice.



---

[N] [45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]




