# § 685.203   Loan limits.

(a) *Direct Subsidized Loans.* (1) In the case of an undergraduate student who has not successfully completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $3,500 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a one-year program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $3,500 as the—


(iii) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, the amount that is the same ratio to $3,500 as the lesser of the—


(2) In the case of an undergraduate student who has successfully completed the first year of an undergraduate program but has not successfully completed the second year of an undergraduate program, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $4,500 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $4,500 as the—


(3) In the case of an undergraduate student who has successfully completed the first and second years of a program of study of undergraduate education but has not successfully completed the remainder of the program, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $5,500 for a program of study of at least an academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $5,500 as the—


(4) In the case of a student who has an associate or baccalaureate degree which is required for admission into a program and who is not a graduate or professional student, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study may not exceed the amounts in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(5) In the case of a graduate or professional student for periods of enrollment beginning before July 1, 2012, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed $8,500.


(6) In the case of a student enrolled for no longer than one consecutive 12-month period in a course of study necessary for enrollment in a program leading to a degree or a certificate, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $2,625 for coursework necessary for enrollment in an undergraduate degree or certificate program.


(ii) $5,500 for coursework necessary for enrollment in a graduate or professional degree or certification program for a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree.


(7) In the case of a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree and is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in coursework necessary for a professional credential or certification from a State that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary or secondary school in that State, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed $5,500.


(8) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, an undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is one academic year or less in length may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(9) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section— 


(i) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has not successfully completed the first year of that program may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(ii) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has successfully completed the first year of that program, but has not successfully completed the second year of the program, may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(b) *Direct Unsubsidized Loans.* (1) In the case of a dependent undergraduate student, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the total amount a student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program is the same as the amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section, less any amount received under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program, plus—


(i) $2,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study that is one academic year or more in length with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $2,000 as the—


(iii) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, the amount that is the same ratio to $2,000 as the lesser of the—


(2)(i) In the case of an independent undergraduate student or certain dependent undergraduate students under the conditions specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the total amount the student may borrow for any period of enrollment under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program may not exceed the amounts determined under paragraph (a) of this section less any amount received under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program in combination with the amounts determined under paragraph (c) of this section.


(ii) In the case of a graduate or professional student for a period of enrollment beginning before July 1, 2012, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program may not exceed the amount determined under paragraph (a)(5) of this section, less any amount received under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program.


(iii) In the case of a graduate or professional student for a period of enrollment beginning on or after July 1, 2012, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program may not exceed $8,500.


(c) *Additional eligibility for Direct Unsubsidized Loans.* (1)(i) An independent undergraduate student, graduate or professional student, and certain dependent undergraduate students may borrow amounts under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program in addition to any amount borrowed under paragraph (b) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) for certain dependent undergraduate students.


(ii) In order for a dependent undergraduate student to receive this additional loan amount, the financial aid administrator must determine that the student's parent likely will be precluded by exceptional circumstances from borrowing under the Direct PLUS Loan Program and the student's family is otherwise unable to provide the student's expected family contribution. The financial aid administrator must base the determination on a review of the family financial information provided by the student and consideration of the student's debt burden and must document the determination in the school's file.


(iii) “Exceptional circumstances” under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section include but are not limited to circumstances in which the student's parent receives only public assistance or disability benefits, the parent is incarcerated, the parent has an adverse credit history, or the parent's whereabouts are unknown. A parent's refusal to borrow a Direct PLUS Loan does not constitute “exceptional circumstances.”


(2) The additional amount that a student described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may borrow under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program for any academic year of study may not exceed the following:


(i) In the case of a student who has not successfully completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education—


(A) $6,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(B) For a one-year program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the—


(C) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, an amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the lesser of the—


(ii) In the case of a student who has completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education but has not successfully completed the second year of a program of undergraduate education—


(A) $6,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(B) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the—


(iii) In the case of a student who has successfully completed the second year of a program of undergraduate education but has not completed the remainder of the program of study—


(A) $7,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(B) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $7,000 as the—


(iv) In the case of a student who has an associate or baccalaureate degree which is required for admission into a program and who is not a graduate or professional student, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study may not exceed the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(v) In the case of a graduate or professional student, $12,000.


(vi) In the case of a student enrolled for no longer than one consecutive 12-month period in a course of study necessary for enrollment in a program leading to a degree or a certificate—


(A) $6,000 for coursework necessary for enrollment in an undergraduate degree or certificate program.


(B) $7,000 for coursework necessary for enrollment in a graduate or professional degree or certification program for a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree.


(vii) In the case of a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree and is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in coursework necessary for a professional credential or certification from a State that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary or secondary school in that State, $7,000.


(viii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, an undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is one academic year or less in length may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. 


(ix) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section— 


(A) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has not successfully completed the first year of that program may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. 


(B) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has successfully completed the first year of that program, but has not successfully completed the second year of the program, may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) A dependent undergraduate student who qualifies for additional Direct Unsubsidized Loan amounts under this section in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii) is not eligible to receive the additional Direct Unsubsidized Loan amounts provided under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(d) *Aggregate limits for subsidized loans.* The aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Direct Subsidized Loans and Subsidized Federal Stafford Loans made to a student but excluding the amount of capitalized interest may not exceed the following:


(1) $23,000 in the case of any student who has not successfully completed a program of study at the undergraduate level.


(2) $65,500 in the case of a graduate or professional student, including loans for undergraduate study.


(e) *Aggregate limits for unsubsidized loans.* The total amount of Direct Unsubsidized Loans, Unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loans, and Federal SLS Loans, excluding the amount of capitalized interest, may not exceed the following:


(1) For a dependent undergraduate student, $31,000 minus any Direct Subsidized Loan and Subsidized Federal Stafford Loan amounts, unless the student qualifies under paragraph (c) of this section for additional eligibility or qualified for that additional eligibility under the Federal SLS Program.


(2) For an independent undergraduate or a dependent undergraduate who qualifies for additional eligibility under paragraph (c) of this section or qualified for this additional eligibility under the Federal SLS Program, $57,500 minus any Direct Subsidized Loan and Subsidized Federal Stafford Loan amounts.


(3) For a graduate or professional student, $138,500, including any loans for undergraduate study, minus any Direct Subsidized Loan, Subsidized Federal Stafford Loan, and Federal SLS Program loan amounts.


(f) *Direct PLUS Loans annual limit.* The total amount of all Direct PLUS Loans that a parent or parents may borrow on behalf of each dependent student, or that a graduate or professional student may borrow, for any academic year of study may not exceed the cost of attendance minus other estimated financial assistance for the student.


(g) *Direct PLUS Loans aggregate limit.* The total amount of all Direct PLUS Loans that a parent or parents may borrow on behalf of each dependent student, or that a graduate or professional student may borrow, for enrollment in an eligible program of study may not exceed the student's cost of attendance minus other estimated financial assistance for that student for the entire period of enrollment.


(h) *Loan limit period.* The annual loan limits apply to an academic year, as defined in 34 CFR 668.3.


(i) *Treatment of Direct Consolidation Loans and Federal Consolidation Loans.* The percentage of the outstanding balance on Direct Consolidation Loans or Federal Consolidation Loans counted against a borrower's aggregate loan limits is calculated as follows:


(1) For Direct Subsidized Loans, the percentage equals the percentage of the original amount of the Direct Consolidation Loan or Federal Consolidation Loan attributable to the Direct Subsidized and Subsidized Federal Stafford Loans.


(2) For Direct Unsubsidized Loans, the percentage equals the percentage of the original amount of the Direct Consolidation Loan or Federal Consolidation Loan attributable to the Direct Unsubsidized, Federal SLS, and Unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loans.


(j) *Maximum loan amounts.* In no case may a Direct Subsidized, Direct Unsubsidized, or Direct PLUS Loan amount exceed the student's estimated cost of attendance for the period of enrollment for which the loan is intended, less—


(1) The student's estimated financial assistance for that period; and


(2) In the case of a Direct Subsidized Loan, the borrower's expected family contribution for that period.


(k) Any TEACH Grants that have been converted to Direct Unsubsidized Loans are not counted against any annual or aggregate loan limits under this section.



---

[N] [59 FR 61690, Dec. 1, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 58966, Nov. 1, 1999; 67 FR 67081, Nov. 1, 2002; 68 FR 75430, Dec. 31, 2003; 71 FR 45711, Aug. 9, 2006; 71 FR 64399, Nov. 1, 2006; 73 FR 35495, June 23, 2008; 74 FR 56001, Oct. 29, 2009; 78 FR 65827, Nov. 1, 2013]




