# § 242.826   Core Principle 9—Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) *In general.* (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall:


(i) Maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the facility, including a complete audit trail, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of five years; and


(ii) Report to the Commission, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, such information as the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission under the Act.


(2) The Commission shall adopt data collection and reporting requirements for security-based swap execution facilities that are comparable to corresponding requirements for clearing agencies and security-based swap data repositories.


(b) *Required records.* A security-based swap execution facility shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to its business with respect to security-based swaps. Such records shall include, without limitation, the audit trail information required under § 242.819(f) and all other records that a security-based swap execution facility is required to create or obtain under §§ 242.800 through 242.835 (Regulation SE).


(c) *Duration of retention.* (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall keep records of any security-based swap from the date of execution until the termination, maturity, expiration, transfer, assignment, or novation date of the transaction, and for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, after such date.


(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall keep each record other than the records described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, from the date on which the record was created.


(d) *Record retention.* (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall retain all records in a form and manner that ensures the authenticity and reliability of such records in accordance with the Act and the Commission's rules thereunder.


(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall, upon request of any representative of the Commission, promptly furnish to the representative legible, true, complete, and current copies of any records required to be kept and preserved pursuant to this section.


(3)(i) An electronic record shall be retained in a form and manner that allows for prompt production at the request of any representative of the Commission.


(ii) A security-based swap execution facility maintaining electronic records shall establish appropriate systems and controls that ensure the authenticity and reliability of electronic records, including, without limitation:


(A) Systems that maintain the security, signature, and data as necessary to ensure the authenticity of the information contained in electronic records and to monitor compliance with the Act and the Commission's rules thereunder;


(B) Systems that ensure that the security-based swap execution facility is able to produce electronic records in accordance with this section, and ensure the availability of such electronic records in the event of an emergency or other disruption of the security-based swap execution facility's electronic record retention systems; and


(C) The creation and maintenance of an up-to-date inventory that identifies and describes each system that maintains information necessary for accessing or producing electronic records.


(e) *Record examination.* All records required to be kept by a security-based swap execution facility pursuant to this section are subject to examination by any representative of the Commission pursuant to section 17(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q).


(f) *Records of non-U.S. members.* A security-based swap execution facility shall keep a record in permanent form, which shall show the true name, address, and principal occupation or business of any non-U.S. member that executes transactions on the facility. Upon request, the security-based swap execution facility shall provide to the Commission information regarding the name of any person guaranteeing such transactions or exercising any control over the trading of such non-U.S. member.






