# § 170.170   Weather criteria.

(a) Each vessel must be shown by design calculations to have a metacentric height (GM) that is equal to or greater than the following in each condition of loading and operation:


(b) If approved by the Coast Guard Marine Safety Center or the ABS, a larger value of T may be used for a vessel with a discontinuous weather deck or abnormal sheer. 


(c) When doing the calculations required by paragraph (a) of this section for a sailing vessel or auxiliary sailing vessel, the vessel must be assumed—


(1) To be under bare poles; or


(2) If the vessel has no auxiliary propulsion, to have storm sails set and trimmed flat.


(d) The criterion specified in this section is generally limited in application to the conditions of loading and operation of flush deck, mechanically powered vessels of ordinary proportions and form for which the righting arm (GZ) at the angle (T), calculated after the vessel is permitted to trim free until the trimming moment is zero, is not less than the minimum metacentric height (GM) calculated in paragraph (a) of this section multiplied by sin(T). On other types of vessels, the Coast Guard Marine Safety Center requires calculations in addition to those in paragraph (a) of this section. On a mechanically powered vessel under 328 feet (100 meters) in length, other than a tugboat or a towboat, the requirements in § 170.173 are applied. 



---

[N] [CGD 79-023, 48 FR 51010, Nov. 4, 1983; 49 FR 37384, Sept. 24, 1984, as amended by CGD 88-070, 53 FR 34537, Sept. 7, 1988; CGD 85-080, 61 FR 944, Jan. 10, 1996; 61 FR 20556, May 7, 1996; CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51217, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-2007-0030, 75 FR 78084, Dec. 14, 2010]




