# § 668.47   Report on athletic program participation rates and financial support data.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to a co-educational institution of higher education that—


(1) Participates in any title IV, HEA program; and


(2) Has an intercollegiate athletic program.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section only.


(1) *Expenses*—(i) *Expenses* means expenses attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities. This includes appearance guarantees and options, athletically related student aid, contract services, equipment, fundraising activities, operating expenses, promotional activities, recruiting expenses, salaries and benefits, supplies, travel, and any other expenses attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities.


(ii) *Operating expenses* means all expenses an institution incurs attributable to home, away, and neutral-site intercollegiate athletic contests (commonly known as “game-day expenses”), for—


(A) Lodging, meals, transportation, uniforms, and equipment for coaches, team members, support staff (including, but not limited to team managers and trainers), and others; and


(B) Officials.


(iii) *Recruiting expenses* means all expenses an institution incurs attributable to recruiting activities. This includes, but is not limited to, expenses for lodging, meals, telephone use, and transportation (including vehicles used for recruiting purposes) for both recruits and personnel engaged in recruiting, any other expenses for official and unofficial visits, and all other expenses related to recruiting.


(2) *Institutional salary* means all wages and bonuses an institution pays a coach as compensation attributable to coaching.


(3)(i) *Participants* means students who, as of the day of a varsity team's first scheduled contest—


(A) Are listed by the institution on the varsity team's roster;


(B) Receive athletically related student aid; or


(C) Practice with the varsity team and receive coaching from one or more varsity coaches.


(ii) Any student who satisfies one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (C) of this section is a participant, including a student on a team the institution designates or defines as junior varsity, freshman, or novice, or a student withheld from competition to preserve eligibility (*i.e.*, a redshirt), or for academic, medical, or other reasons.


(4) *Reporting year* means a consecutive twelve-month period of time designated by the institution for the purposes of this section.


(5) *Revenues* means revenues attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities. This includes revenues from appearance guarantees and options, an athletic conference, tournament or bowl games, concessions, contributions from alumni and others, institutional support, program advertising and sales, radio and television, royalties, signage and other sponsorships, sports camps, State or other government support, student activity fees, ticket and luxury box sales, and any other revenues attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities.


(6) *Undergraduate students* means students who are consistently designated as such by the institution.


(7) *Varsity team* means a team that—


(i) Is designated or defined by its institution or an athletic association as a varsity team; or


(ii) Primarily competes against other teams that are designated or defined by their institutions or athletic associations as varsity teams.


(c) *Report.* An institution described in paragraph (a) of this section must annually, for the preceding reporting year, prepare a report that contains the following information:


(1) The number of male and the number of female full-time undergraduate students that attended the institution.


(2) A listing of the varsity teams that competed in intercollegiate athletic competition and for each team the following data:


(i) The total number of participants as of the day of its first scheduled contest of the reporting year, the number of participants who also participated on another varsity team, and the number of other varsity teams on which they participated.


(ii) Total operating expenses attributable to the team, except that an institution may report combined operating expenses for closely related teams, such as track and field or swimming and diving. Those combinations must be reported separately for men's and women's teams.


(iii) In addition to the data required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, an institution may report operating expenses attributable to the team on a per-participant basis.


(iv)(A) Whether the head coach was male or female, was assigned to the team on a full-time or part-time basis, and, if assigned on a part-time basis, whether the head coach was a full-time or part-time employee of the institution.


(B) The institution must consider graduate assistants and volunteers who served as head coaches to be head coaches for the purposes of this report.


(v)(A) The number of assistant coaches who were male and the number of assistant coaches who were female, and, within each category, the number who were assigned to the team on a full-time or part-time basis, and, of those assigned on a part-time basis, the number who were full-time and part-time employees of the institution.


(B) The institution must consider graduate assistants and volunteers who served as assistant coaches to be assistant coaches for purposes of this report.


(3) The unduplicated head count of the individuals who were listed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section as a participant on at least one varsity team, by gender.


(4)(i) Revenues derived by the institution according to the following categories (Revenues not attributable to a particular sport or sports must be included only in the total revenues attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities, and, if appropriate, revenues attributable to men's sports combined or women's sports combined. Those revenues include, but are not limited to, alumni contributions to the athletic department not targeted to a particular sport or sports, investment interest income, and student activity fees.):


(A) Total revenues attributable to its intercollegiate athletic activities.


(B) Revenues attributable to all men's sports combined.


(C) Revenues attributable to all women's sports combined.


(D) Revenues attributable to football.


(E) Revenues attributable to men's basketball.


(F) Revenues attributable to women's basketball.


(G) Revenues attributable to all men's sports except football and basketball, combined.


(H) Revenues attributable to all women's sports except basketball, combined.


(ii) In addition to the data required by paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, an institution may report revenues attributable to the remainder of the teams, by team.


(5) Expenses incurred by the institution, according to the following categories (Expenses not attributable to a particular sport, such as general and administrative overhead, must be included only in the total expenses attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities.):


(i) Total expenses attributable to intercollegiate athletic activities.


(ii) Expenses attributable to football.


(iii) Expenses attributable to men's basketball.


(iv) Expenses attributable to women's basketball.


(v) Expenses attributable to all men's sports except football and basketball, combined.


(vi) Expenses attributable to all women's sports except basketball, combined.


(6) The total amount of money spent on athletically related student aid, including the value of waivers of educational expenses, aggregately for men's teams, and aggregately for women's teams.


(7) The ratio of athletically related student aid awarded male athletes to athletically related student aid awarded female athletes.


(8) The total amount of recruiting expenses incurred, aggregately for all men's teams, and aggregately for all women's teams.


(9)(i) The average annual institutional salary of the non-volunteer head coaches of all men's teams, across all offered sports, and the average annual institutional salary of the non-volunteer head coaches of all women's teams, across all offered sports, on a per person and a per full-time equivalent position basis. These data must include the number of persons and full-time equivalent positions used to calculate each average.


(ii) If a head coach has responsibilities for more than one team and the institution does not allocate that coach's salary by team, the institution must divide the salary by the number of teams for which the coach has responsibility and allocate the salary among the teams on a basis consistent with the coach's responsibilities for the different teams.


(10)(i) The average annual institutional salary of the non-volunteer assistant coaches of men's teams, across all offered sports, and the average annual institutional salary of the non-volunteer assistant coaches of women's teams, across all offered sports, on a per person and a full-time equivalent position basis. These data must include the number of persons and full-time equivalent positions used to calculate each average.


(ii) If an assistant coach had responsibilities for more than one team and the institution does not allocate that coach's salary by team, the institution must divide the salary by the number of teams for which the coach has responsibility and allocate the salary among the teams on a basis consistent with the coach's responsibilities for the different teams. 



---

[N] [64 FR 59071, Nov. 1, 1999]




