# § 520.2218   Sulfamerazine, sulfamethazine, and sulfaquinoxaline powder.

(a) *Specifications.* Each 195-gram (g) packet of powder contains 78 g sulfamerazine, 78 g sulfamethazine, and 39 g sulfaquinoxaline.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 016592 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See §§ 556.660, 556.670, and 556.685 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Chickens*—(i) *Amounts and indications for use.* (A) As an aid in the control of coccidiosis caused by *Eimeria tenella* and *E. necatrix* susceptible to sulfamerazine, sulfamethazine, and sulfaquinoxaline: Provide medicated water (0.04 percent solution) for 2 to 3 days, then plain water for 3 days, then medicated water (0.025 percent solution) for 2 days. If bloody droppings appear, repeat at 0.025 percent level for 2 more days. Do not change litter.


(B) As an aid in the control of acute fowl cholera caused by *Pasteurella multocida* susceptible to sulfamerazine, sulfamethazine, and sulfaquinoxaline: Provide medicated water (0.04 percent solution) for 2 to 3 days. If disease recurs, repeat treatment.


(ii) *Limitations.* Do not treat chickens within 14 days of slaughter for food. Do not medicate chickens producing eggs for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Turkeys*—(i) *Amounts and indications for use.* (A) As an aid in the control of coccidiosis caused by *Eimeria meleagrimitis* and *E. adenoeides* susceptible to sulfamerazine, sulfamethazine, and sulfaquinoxaline: Provide medicated water (0.025 percent solution) for 2 days, then plain water for 3 days, then medicated water (0.025 percent solution) for 2 days, then plain water for 3 days, then medicated water (0.025 percent solution) for 2 days. Repeat if necessary. Do not change litter.


(B) As an aid in the control of acute fowl cholera caused by *Pasteurella multocida* susceptible to sulfamerazine, sulfamethazine, and sulfaquinoxaline: Provide medicated water (0.04 percent solution) for 2 to 3 days. If disease recurs, repeat treatment.


(ii) *Limitations.* Do not treat turkeys within 14 days of slaughter for food. Do not medicate turkeys producing eggs for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [71 FR 13001, Mar. 14, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 28829, May 20, 2014; 80 FR 34278, June 16, 2015; 81 FR 22523, Apr. 18, 2016; 81 FR 94990, Dec. 27, 2016; 85 FR 18119, Apr. 1, 2020]




