# § 12.33   How do I file a petition for remission of forfeiture requesting the release of my property?

(a) If you are an interested party, you may file a petition for remission of forfeiture with the Service to return seized property that is subject to administrative forfeiture. Upon receiving the petition, the Service will refer the petition to the Solicitor to decide whether to grant relief.


(b) You must file your petition for remission within 35 days from the date of the delivery of the notice of seizure and proposed forfeiture, if you or any interested party receives the notice of seizure and proposed forfeiture. If you do not receive the notice of seizure and proposed forfeiture, we must receive the petition for remission that you file not later than 30 days from the date of last posting of the public notice of the seizure of the property.


(c) Petitions for remission of forfeiture must be concise and logically presented to facilitate review by the Solicitor. The Solicitor may dismiss a petition for remission that fails to substantially comply with any of the information required by this paragraph (c). The petition for remission of forfeiture must contain the following:


(1) The name and address of the person claiming the interest in the seized property who is seeking remission.


(2) The name of the seizing agency, the asset identifier number, and the date and place of seizure.


(3) A complete description of the property.


(4) A description of the petitioner's interest in the property as owner, lienholder, or otherwise, supported by original or certified bills of sale, contracts, deeds, mortgages, or other documentary evidence.


(5) A statement containing all of the facts and circumstances you use to justify the remission of the forfeiture. If you rely on an exemption or an exception to a prohibition under any Act listed in § 12.2, you must demonstrate how that exemption or exception applies to your particular situation.


(6) A statement containing all of the facts and circumstances you contend support any innocent owner's defense allowed by 18 U.S.C 983(d) that you are asserting. No person may assert an innocent owner's interest in property that is contraband or other property that is illegal to possess. A petitioner has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the petitioner is an “innocent owner” as defined in 18 U.S.C 983(d).


(7) A statement that the information furnished is, to the best of your knowledge and belief, complete, true, and correct and that you recognize false statements may subject you to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C 1001.


(d) In addition to the contents of the petition for remission described in paragraph (c) of this section, upon request, the petitioner must also furnish the agency with instruments executed by each known party with an interest in the property releasing that interest.


(e) A petition for remission of property subject to administrative forfeiture must be addressed to the appropriate office identified in the notice of forfeiture.


(f) Your petition for remission must be signed by you or your lawyer. If a lawyer files on behalf of the petitioner, the petition must include a signed and sworn statement by the client-petitioner stating that:


(1) The lawyer has the authority to represent you in the proceeding;


(2) You have fully reviewed the petition; and


(3) The petition is truthful and accurate in every respect to the best of your knowledge and belief.


(g) If the petitioner is a corporation, the petition must be signed by an authorized officer, supervisory employee of the corporation, or a lawyer representing the corporation, and the corporate seal must be properly affixed to the signature.


(h) If you file a claim to the property, as described in § 12.36, the administrative proceeding will be terminated and the Solicitor will no longer have the opportunity or authority to review or rule on the petition for remission of the property.






