# ยง 2.109   Effect of timely renewal application.

(a) Except for the renewal of licenses identified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, if at least 30 days before the expiration of an existing license authorizing any activity of a continuing nature, the licensee files an application for a renewal or for a new license for the activity so authorized, the existing license will not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally determined.






(b) If the licensee of a nuclear power plant licensed under 10 CFR 50.21(b) or 50.22 files a sufficient application for renewal of either an operating license or a combined license at least 5 years before the expiration of the existing license, the existing license will not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally determined.


(c) If the holder of an early site permit licensed under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter files a sufficient application for renewal under ยง 52.29 of this chapter at least 12 months before the expiration of the existing early site permit, the existing permit will not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally determined.


(d) If the licensee of a manufacturing license under subpart F of part 52 of this chapter files a sufficient application for renewal under ยง 52.177 of this chapter at least 12 months before the expiration of the existing license, the existing license will not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally determined.


(e) If the licensee of an Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation (ISFSI) licensed under subpart C of part 72 of this chapter files a sufficient application for renewal under ยง 72.42 of this chapter at least 2 years before the expiration of the existing license, the existing license will not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally determined.


(f) If the licensee of a non-power production or utilization facility licensed under 10 CFR 50.22, or a testing facility, files a sufficient application for renewal at least 2 years before the expiration of the existing license, the existing license will not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally determined.











---

[N] [72 FR 49473, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 70437, Nov. 5, 2020; 89 FR 106250, Dec. 30, 2024]




