# ยง 205.271   Facility pest management practice standard.

(a) The producer or handler of an organic facility must use management practices to prevent pests, including but not limited to: 


(1) Removal of pest habitat, food sources, and breeding areas; 


(2) Prevention of access to handling facilities; and 


(3) Management of environmental factors, such as temperature, light, humidity, atmosphere, and air circulation, to prevent pest reproduction. 


(b) Pests may be controlled through: 


(1) Mechanical or physical controls including but not limited to traps, light, or sound; or 


(2) Lures and repellents using nonsynthetic or synthetic substances consistent with the National List. 


(c) If the practices provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not effective to prevent or control pests, a nonsynthetic or synthetic substance consistent with the National List may be applied. 


(d) If the practices provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section are not effective to prevent or control facility pests, a synthetic substance not on the National List may be applied: *Provided,* That, the handler and certifying agent agree on the substance, method of application, and measures to be taken to prevent contact of the organically produced products or ingredients with the substance used. 


(e) The handler of an organic handling operation who applies a nonsynthetic or synthetic substance to prevent or control pests must update the operation's organic handling plan to reflect the use of such substances and methods of application. The updated organic plan must include a list of all measures taken to prevent contact of the organically produced products or ingredients with the substance used. 


(f) Notwithstanding the practices provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a handler may otherwise use substances to prevent or control pests as required by Federal, State, or local laws and regulations: *Provided,* That, measures are taken to prevent contact of the organically produced products or ingredients with the substance used. 




