# ยง 103.40   Genealogical research requests.

(a) *Nature of requests.* Genealogy requests are requests for searches and/or copies of historical records relating to a deceased person, usually for genealogy and family history research purposes.


(b) *Forms.* USCIS provides on its website at *https://www.uscis.gov/records/genealogy* the required forms in electronic versions: Genealogy Index Search Request or Genealogy Records Request.


(c) *Required information.* Genealogical research requests may be submitted to request one or more separate records relating to an individual. A separate request must be submitted for everyone searched. All requests for records or index searches must include the individual's:


(1) Full name (including variant spellings of the name and/or aliases, if any).


(2) Date of birth, at least as specific as a year.


(3) Place of birth, at least as specific as a country and the country name at the time of the individual's immigration or naturalization if known.


(d) *Optional information.* To better ensure a successful search, a genealogical research request may include everyone's:


(1) Date of arrival in the United States.


(2) Residence address at time of naturalization.


(3) Names of parents, spouse, and children if applicable and available.


(e) *Additional information required to retrieve records.* For a Genealogy Records Request, requests for copies of historical records or files must identify the record by number or other specific data used by the Genealogy Program Office to retrieve the record as follows:


(1) C-Files must be identified by a naturalization certificate number.


(2) Forms AR-2 and A-Files numbered below 8 million must be identified by Alien Registration Number.


(3) Visa Files must be identified by the Visa File Number. Registry Files must be identified by the Registry File Number (for example, R-12345).


(f) *Information required for release of records.* (1) Documentary evidence must be attached to a Genealogy Records Request or submitted in accordance with the instructions on the Genealogy Records Request form.


(2) Search subjects will be presumed deceased if their birth dates are more than 100 years before the date of the request. In other cases, the subject is presumed to be living until the requestor establishes to the satisfaction of USCIS that the subject is deceased.


(3) Documentary evidence of the subject's death is required (including but not limited to death records, published obituaries or eulogies, published death notices, church or bible records, photographs of gravestones, and/or copies of official documents relating to payment of death benefits).


(g) *Index search.* Requestors who are unsure whether USCIS has any record of their ancestor, or who suspect a record exists but cannot identify that record by number, may submit a request for index search. An index search will determine the existence of responsive historical records. If no record is found, USCIS will notify the requestor accordingly. If records are found, USCIS will give the requestor electronic copies of records stored in digital format for no additional fee. For records found that are stored in paper format, USCIS will give the requestor the search results, including the type of record found and the file number or other information identifying the record. The requestor can use index search results to submit a Genealogy Records Request.


(h) *Processing of paper record copy requests.* This service is designed for requestors who can identify a specific record or file to be retrieved, copied, reviewed, and released. Requestors may identify one or more files in a single request.



---

[N] [85 FR 46915, Aug. 3, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 6385, Jan. 31, 2024]




