# § 148.265   Fish meal or fish scrap.

(a) This part does not apply to fish meal or fish scrap that contains less than 5 percent moisture by weight.


(b) Fish meal or fish scrap may contain a maximum of 12 percent moisture by weight and a maximum of 15 percent fat by weight.


(c) At the time of production, fish meal or fish scrap must be treated with an effective antioxidant (at least 400 mg/kg (ppm) ethoxyquin, at least 1000 mg/kg (ppm) butylated hydroxytoluene, or at least 1000 mg/kg (ppm) of tocopherol-based liquid antioxidant).


(d) Shipment of the fish meal or fish scrap must take place a maximum of 12 months after the treatment prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) Fish meal or fish scrap must contain at least 100 mg/kg (ppm) of ethoxyquin or butylated hydroxytoluene or at least 250 mg/kg (ppm) of tocopherol-based antioxidant at the time of shipment.


(f) At the time of loading, the temperature of the fish meal or fish scrap to be loaded may not exceed 35 °C (95 °F), or 5 °C (9 °F) above the ambient temperature, whichever is higher.


(g) For each shipment of fish meal or fish scrap, the shipper must give the master a written certification stating—


(1) The total weight of the shipment;


(2) The moisture content of the material;


(3) The fat content of the material;


(4) The type of antioxidant and its concentration in the fish meal or fish scrap at the time of shipment;


(5) The date of production of the material; and


(6) The temperature of the material at the time of shipment.


(h) During a voyage, temperature readings must be taken of fish meal or fish scrap three times a day and recorded. If the temperature of the material exceeds 55 °C (131 °F) and continues to increase, ventilation to the hold must be restricted. This paragraph does not apply to shipments by unmanned barge.




