# ยง 238.505   Program approval procedure.

(a) *Submission.* Not less than 90 days prior to commencing passenger operations using Tier II passenger equipment, each railroad to which this subpart applies shall submit for approval an inspection, testing, and maintenance program for that equipment meeting the requirements of this subpart with the Associate Administrator for Safety, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Mail Stop 25, Washington, DC 20590. If a railroad seeks to amend an approved program, the railroad shall file with FRA's Associate Administrator for Safety a petition for approval of such amendment not less than 60 days prior to the proposed effective date of the amendment. A program responsive to the requirements of this subpart or any amendment to the program shall not be implemented prior to FRA approval.


(1) Each program or amendment under ยง 238.503 shall contain:


(i) The information prescribed in ยง 238.503 for such program or amendment;


(ii) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the primary person to be contacted with regard to review of the program or amendment; and


(iii) A statement affirming that the railroad has served a copy of the program or amendment on designated representatives of railroad employees, together with a list of the names and addresses of persons served.


(2) Each railroad shall serve a copy of each submission to FRA on designated representatives of railroad employees responsible for the equipment's operation, inspection, testing, and maintenance under this subpart.


(b) *Comment.* Not later than 45 days from the date of filing the program or amendment, any person may comment on the program or amendment.


(1) Each comment shall set forth specifically the basis upon which it is made, and contain a concise statement of the interest of the commenter in the proceeding.


(2) Each comment shall be submitted to the Associate Administrator for Safety, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Mail Stop 25, Washington, DC 20590.


(3) The commenter shall certify that a copy of the comment was served on the railroad.


(c) *Approval.* (1) Within 60 days of receipt of each initial inspection, testing, and maintenance program, FRA will conduct a formal review of the program. FRA will then notify the primary railroad contact person and the designated employee representatives in writing whether the inspection, testing, and maintenance program is approved and, if not approved, the specific points in which the program is deficient. If a program is not approved by FRA, the railroad shall amend its program to correct all deficiencies and resubmit its program with the required revisions not later than 45 days prior to commencing passenger operations.


(2) FRA will review each proposed amendment to the program within 45 days of receipt. FRA will then notify the primary railroad contact person and the designated employee representatives in writing whether the proposed amendment has been approved by FRA and, if not approved, the specific points in which the proposed amendment is deficient. The railroad shall correct any deficiencies and file the corrected amendment prior to implementing the amendment.


(3) Following initial approval of a program or amendment, FRA may reopen consideration of the program or amendment for cause stated.



---

[N] [64 FR 25660, May 12, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 25174, May 27, 2009]




