# § 324.401   Authority, purpose, scope, other supervisory authority, disclosure of capital categories, and transition procedures.

(a) *Authority.* This subpart H is issued by the FDIC pursuant to section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), as added by section 131 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991)) (12 U.S.C. 1831o).


(b) *Purpose.* Section 38 of the FDI Act establishes a framework of supervisory actions for insured depository institutions that are not adequately capitalized. The principal purpose of this subpart is to define, for FDIC-supervised institutions, the capital measures and capital levels, and for insured branches of foreign banks, comparable asset-based measures and levels, that are used for determining the supervisory actions authorized under section 38 of the FDI Act. This subpart also establishes procedures for submission and review of capital restoration plans and for issuance and review of directives and orders pursuant to section 38 of the FDI Act.


(c) *Scope.* Until January 1, 2015, subpart B of part 325 of this chapter will continue to apply to banks and insured branches of foreign banks for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency. Until January 1, 2015, subpart Y of part 390 of this chapter will continue to apply to state savings associations. Beginning on, and thereafter, January 1, 2015, this subpart H implements the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act as they apply to FDIC-supervised institutions and insured branches of foreign banks for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency. Certain of these provisions also apply to officers, directors and employees of those insured institutions. In addition, certain provisions of this subpart apply to all insured depository institutions that are deemed critically undercapitalized.


(d) *Other supervisory authority.* Neither section 38 of the FDI Act nor this subpart H in any way limits the authority of the FDIC under any other provision of law to take supervisory actions to address unsafe or unsound practices, deficient capital levels, violations of law, unsafe or unsound conditions, or other practices. Action under section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H may be taken independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the FDIC, including issuance of cease and desist orders, capital directives, approval or denial of applications or notices, assessment of civil money penalties, or any other actions authorized by law.


(e) *Disclosure of capital categories.* The assignment of an FDIC-supervised institution or an insured branch of a foreign bank for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency under this subpart H within a particular capital category is for purposes of implementing and applying the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act. Unless permitted by the FDIC or otherwise required by law, no FDIC-supervised institution or insured branch of a foreign bank for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency may state in any advertisement or promotional material its capital category under this subpart H or that the FDIC or any other Federal banking agency has assigned it to a particular capital category.


(f) *Transition procedures*—(1) *Definitions applicable before January 1, 2015, for certain FDIC-supervised institutions.* Before January 1, 2015, notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart H and with respect to any FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution:


(i) The definitions of leverage ratio, tangible equity, tier 1 capital, tier 1 risk-based capital, and total risk-based capital as calculated or defined under Appendix A to part 325 or Appendix B to part 325, as applicable, remain in effect for purposes of this subpart H; and


(ii) The term total assets shall have the meaning provided in 12 CFR 325.2(x).


(2) *Timing.* The calculation of the definitions of common equity tier 1 capital, the common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the leverage ratio, the supplementary leverage ratio, tangible equity, tier 1 capital, the tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, total assets, total leverage exposure, the total risk-based capital ratio, and total risk-weighted assets under this subpart H is subject to the timing provisions at 12 CFR 324.1(f) and the transitions at 12 CFR part 324, subpart G.


(g) For purposes of subpart H, as of January 1, 2015, total assets means quarterly average total assets as reported in an FDIC-supervised institution's Call Report, minus amounts deducted from tier 1 capital under § 324.22(a), (c), and (d). At its discretion, the FDIC may calculate total assets using an FDIC-supervised institution's period-end assets rather than quarterly average assets.




