# 226.7202   Policy and procedures.

(a)(1) Contracting officers may use this Demonstration Project to award one or more contracts to an eligible contractor for the purpose of providing defense contracting opportunities for entities that employ severely disabled individuals. To determine if there are eligible contractors capable of fulfilling the agency's requirement, conduct market research as described in 210.002 and FAR 10.002. For services, see also PGI 210.070.


(2) If the contracting officer elects to use this Demonstration Project, FAR 6.302-5 requires a written justification and approval to limit competition to eligible contractors. In the justification, identify the statutory authority for the Demonstration Project (10 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.).


(b) When using this Demonstration Project, one of the evaluation factors shall be the percentage of the offeror's total workforce that consists of severely disabled individuals employed by the offeror. Contracting officers may use a rating method in which a higher percentage of the offeror's total workforce consisting of severely disabled individuals would result in a higher rating for this evaluation factor.


(c)(1) Contracts awarded to eligible contractors under this Demonstration Project shall be counted toward DoD's small disadvantaged business goal. The contractor must be an eligible contractor when options under the contract are exercised, in order for DoD to continue to receive credit for the contract toward its small disadvantaged business goal.


(2) Contracting officers shall verify the contractor's representation (*e.g.,* by checking the System for Award Management) prior to exercising an option on a contract awarded under the Demonstration Project. Contracting officers may exercise the option if the contractor has represented that it is not an eligible contractor; however, the contract shall no longer be counted toward DoD's small disadvantaged business goal.



---

[N] [84 FR 72560, Dec. 31, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 76994, Dec. 16, 2022]






