# § 1.936-11   New lines of business prohibited.

(a) *In general.* A possessions corporation that is an existing credit claimant, as defined in section 936(j)(9)(A) and this section, that adds a substantial new line of business during a taxable year, or that has a new line of business that becomes substantial during the taxable year, loses its status as an existing credit claimant for that year and all years subsequent.


(b) *New line of business*—(1) *In general.* A new line of business is any business activity of the possessions corporation that is not closely related to a pre-existing business of the possessions corporation. The term *closely related* is defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The term *pre-existing business* is defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(2) *Closely related.* To determine whether a new activity is closely related to a pre-existing business of the possessions corporation all the facts and circumstances must be considered, including those set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (G) of this section. 


(i) *Factors.* The following factors will help to establish that a new activity is closely related to a pre-existing business activity of the possessions corporation—


(A) The new activity provides products or services very similar to the products or services provided by the pre-existing business; 


(B) The new activity markets products and services to the same class of customers; 


(C) The new activity is of a type that is normally conducted in the same business location; 


(D) The new activity requires the use of similar operating assets; 


(E) The new activity's economic success depends on the success of the pre-existing business; 


(F) The new activity is of a type that would normally be treated as a unit with the pre-existing business' in the business accounting records; and 


(G) The new activity and the pre-existing business are regulated or licensed by the same or similar governmental authority. 


(ii) *Safe harbors.* An activity is not a new line of business if—


(A) If the activity is within the same six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code (or four-digit Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code). The similarity of the NAICS or SIC codes may not be relied upon to determine whether the activity is closely related to a pre-existing business where the code indicates a miscellaneous category; 


(B) If the new activity is within the same five-digit NAICS code (or three-digit SIC code) and the facts relating to the new activity also satisfy at least three of the factors listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (G) of this section; or


(C) If the pre-existing business is making a component product or end-product form, as defined in § 1.936-5(a)(1),Q&A1, and the new business activity is making an integrated product, or an end-product form with fewer excluded components, that is not within the same six-digit NAICS code (or four-digit SIC code) as the pre-existing business solely because the component product and the integrated product (or two end-product forms) have different end-uses. 


(3) *Pre-existing business*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, a business activity is a pre-existing business of the existing credit claimant if—


(A) The existing credit claimant was actively engaged in the activity within the possession on or before October 13, 1995; and


(B) The existing credit claimant had elected the benefits of the Puerto Rico and possession tax credit pursuant to an election which was in effect for the taxable year that included October 13, 1995. 


(ii) *Acquisition of an existing credit claimant.* (A) If all the assets of one or more trades or businesses of a corporation of an existing credit claimant are acquired by an affiliated or non-affiliated existing credit claimant which carries on the business activity of the predecessor existing credit claimant, the acquired business activity will be treated as a pre-existing business of the acquiring corporation. A non-affiliated acquiring corporation will not be bound by any section 936(h) election made by the predecessor existing credit claimant with respect to that business activity. 


(B) Where all of the assets of one or more trades or businesses of a corporation of an existing credit claimant are acquired by a corporation that is not an existing credit claimant, the acquiring corporation may make a section 936(e) election for the taxable year in which the assets are acquired with the following effects—


(*1*) The acquiring corporation will be treated as an existing 


(*2*) The activity will be considered a pre-existing business of the acquiring corporation; 


(*3*) The acquiring corporation will be deemed to satisfy the rules of section 936(a)(2) for the year of acquisition; and 


(*4*) After making an election under section 936(e), a non-affiliated acquiring corporation will not be bound by elections under sections 936(a)(4) and (h) made by the predecessor existing credit claimant. 


(C) For purposes of this section the assets of a trade or business are determined at the time of acquisition provided that the transferee actively conducts the trade or business acquired. 


(D) A mere change in the stock ownership of a possessions corporation will not affect its status as an existing credit claimant for purposes of this section. 


(4) *Leasing of Assets.* (i) The leasing of assets (and employees to operate leased assets) will not, for purposes of this section, be considered a new line of business of the existing credit claimant if—


(A) The existing credit claimant used the leased assets in an active trade or business for at least five years; 


(B) The existing credit claimant does not through its own officers or staff of employees perform management or operational functions (but not including operational functions performed through leased employees) with respect to the leased assets; and 


(C) The existing credit claimant does not perform marketing functions with respect to the leasing of the assets. 


(ii) Any income from the leasing of assets not considered a new line of business pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section will not be income from the active conduct of a trade or business (and, therefore, the existing credit claimant may not receive a possession tax credit with respect to such income). 


(5) *Timing rule.* The tests for a new line of business in this paragraph (whether the new activity is closely related to a pre-existing business) are applied only at the end of the taxable year during which the new activity is added. 


(c) *Substantial*—(1) *In general.* A new line of business is considered to be substantial as of the earlier of—


(i) The taxable year in which the possessions corporation derives more than 15 percent of its gross income from that new line of business (gross income test); or 


(ii) The taxable year in which the possessions corporation directly uses in that new line of business more than 15 percent of its assets (assets test). 


(2) *Gross income test.* The denominator in the gross income test is the amount that is the gross income of the possessions corporation for the current taxable year, while the numerator is the amount that is the gross income of the new line of business for the current taxable year. The gross income test is applied at the end of each taxable year. For purposes of this test, if a new line of business is added late in the taxable year, the income is not to be annualized in that year. In the case of a new line of business acquired through the purchase of assets, the gross income of such new line of business for the taxable year of the acquiring corporation that includes the date of acquisition is determined from the date of acquisition through the end of the taxable year. In the case of a consolidated group election made pursuant to section 936(i)(5), the test applies on a company by company basis and not on a consolidated basis. 


(3) *Assets test*—(i) *Computation.* The denominator is the adjusted tax basis of the total assets of the possessions corporation for the current taxable year. The numerator is the adjusted tax basis of the total assets utilized in the new line of business for the current taxable year. The assets test is computed annually using all assets including cash and receivables. 


(ii) *Exception.* A new line of business of a possessions corporation will not be treated as substantial as a result of meeting the assets test if an event that is not reasonably anticipated causes assets used in the new line of business of the possessions corporation to exceed 15 percent of the adjusted tax basis of the possessions corporation's total assets. For example, an event that is not reasonably anticipated would include the destruction of plant and equipment of the pre-existing business due to a hurricane or other natural disaster, or other similar circumstances beyond the control of the possessions corporation. The expiration of a patent is not such an event and will not permit use of this exception. 


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. In the following examples, X Corp. is an existing credit claimant unless otherwise indicated: 


(e) *Loss of status as existing credit claimant.* An existing credit claimant that adds a substantial new line of business in a taxable year, or that has a new line of business that becomes substantial in a taxable year, loses its status as an existing credit claimant for that year and all years subsequent. 


(f) *Effective date*—(1) *General rule.* This section applies to taxable years of a possessions corporation beginning on or after January 25, 2000. 


(2) *Election for retroactive application.* Taxpayers may elect to apply retroactively all the provisions of this section for any open taxable year beginning after December 31, 1995. Such election will be effective for the year of the election and all subsequent taxable years. This section will not apply to activities of pre-existing businesses for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1996.



---

[N] [T.D. 8868, 65 FR 3815, Jan. 25, 2000]




