# ยง 7.23   Application requirements.

(a) *Brattice cloth.* A single application may address two or more products if the products differ only in: weight of the finished product; weight or weave of the same fabric or scrim; or thickness or layers of the same film. Applications shall include the following information: 


(1) Trade name. 


(2) Product designations (for example, style and code number). 


(3) Color. 


(4) Type of brattice (for example, plastic or jute). 


(5) Weight of finished product. 


(6) Film: type, weight, thickness, supplier, supplier's stock number or designation, and percent of finished product by weight. 


(7) Scrim: Type, denier, weight, weave, the supplier, supplier's stock number or designation, and percent of finished product by weight. 


(8) Adhesive: type, supplier, supplier's stock number or designation, and percent of finished product by weight. 


(b) *Flexible ventilation tubing.* Applications shall include the product description information in paragraph (a) of this section and list the type of supporting structure, if applicable; inside diameters; and configurations. 


(c) *Rigid ventilation tubing.* A single application may address two or more products if the products differ only in diameters, lengths, configuration, or average wall thickness. Applications shall include the following information: 


(1) Trade name. 


(2) Product designations (for example, style and code numbers). 


(3) Color. 


(4) Type of ventilation tubing (for example, fiberglass, plastic, or polyethylene). 


(5) Inside diameter, configuration, and average wall thickness. 


(6) Suspension system (for example, metal hooks). 


(7) Base material: type, supplier, the supplier's stock number, and percent of finished product by weight. 


(8) Resin: type, supplier, the supplier's stock number, and percent of finished product by weight. 


(9) Flame retardant, if added during manufacturing: type, supplier, the supplier's stock number, and percent of finished product by weight. 



---

[N] [53 FR 23500, June 22, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995]




