# ยง 301.85   Quarantine; restriction on interstate movement of specified regulated articles.

(a) *Notice of quarantine.* Under the authority of sections 411, 412, 414, and 434 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7711, 7712, 7714, and 7754), the Secretary of Agriculture quarantines the State of New York in order to prevent the spread of the golden nematode (*Globodera rostochiensis*), which causes a dangerous disease of potatoes and certain other plants and is not widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States. Through the aforementioned authorities, the Secretary imposes a quarantine on the State of New York with respect to the interstate movement from that State of regulated articles, issues regulations in this subpart governing the movement of such articles, and gives notice of this quarantine action.


(b) *Quarantine restrictions on the interstate movement of regulated articles.* No common carrier or other person shall move interstate from any quarantined State any regulated articles, except in accordance with the conditions prescribed in this subpart.


(c) *List of regulated articles.* The Deputy Administrator has determined that certain articles present a hazard of spread of golden nematodes. A list of all such regulated articles is found on the internet at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/golden-nematode/nematodes*. Lists of all regulated articles may also be obtained by request from any local PPQ office; local offices are listed in telephone directories and on the internet at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/sphd*.


(d) *Normal process for designating additional regulated articles.* (1) If the Deputy Administrator determines that an article not already listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/golden-nematode/nematodes* presents a hazard of spread of golden nematodes, APHIS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ proposing to designate the article as a regulated article for golden nematode. The notice will provide the basis for this determination, and will request public comment.


(2) If no comments are received on the notice, or if the comments do not change the Deputy Administrator's determination, APHIS will publish a second notice in the _Federal Register_ designating the article as a regulated article for golden nematode and listing it.


(e) *Immediate designation of regulated articles.* An inspector may designate any other article, product, or means of conveyance as a regulated article, if the inspector determines that it presents a hazard of spread of golden nematodes, and after the person in possession of the article has been so notified.



---

[N] [87 FR 80013, Dec. 29, 2022]








