# ยง 75.35   Material status reports.

(a) Each licensee of a facility, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities with nuclear materials subject to IAEA safeguards shall submit a material status report for each physical inventory taken in accordance with the material accounting and control procedures required by ยง 75.21. The material status report must include a DOE/NRC Form 742 and a DOE/NRC Form 742C, which lists all batches separately and specifies material identification and batch data for each batch. The reports described in this section must be prepared and submitted in accordance with instructions in NUREG/BR-0006, NUREG/BR-0007, and NMMSS Report D-24.


(b) Unless otherwise specified in the license conditions, material status reports shall be submitted to the NRC as soon as possible, but in any event no later than 30 days after the start of the physical inventory.


(c) Possessors of nuclear material outside facilities must submit a material status report to the NRC every 12 calendar months, for a reporting period that commences on May 1st and concludes on April 30th of the next calendar year. The annual inventory report must be dated April 30th.


(d) A material status report must be accompanied by DOE/NRC Form 740M whenever it is necessary to:


(1) Describe the anticipated operational program;


(2) Provide additional explanation and clarification at the country, facility material balance area, report, or entry level;


(3) Provide additional explanation not accommodated in any of the data elements of DOE/NRC Form 742 or DOE/NRC Form 742C; or


(4) Report actual inventory values equal to or less than 0.4 kg of source material.


(e) Copies of the instructions for completing DOE/NRC Form 742, DOE/NRC Form 742C, and DOE/NRC Form 740M may be obtained from the following websites: *http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/brochures* and *https://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/nuclearsecurity/nmmsshome/nmmssinfo/nmmssreports.*


---

[N] [83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]






