# § 3601.103   Additional exceptions for gifts from outside sources.

In addition to the gift exceptions in 5 CFR 2635.204, which authorize acceptance of certain gifts from outside sources, and subject to all provisions of 5 CFR part 2635, subpart B, an employee may accept unsolicited gifts from outside sources otherwise prohibited by 5 CFR 2635.202 as detailed in this section. For purposes of this section, the term “agency” is defined in § 3601.102, and the term “free attendance” is defined in 5 CFR 2635.203(g).


(a) *Community relations events.* (1) An employee may accept an unsolicited gift of free attendance for himself or herself and a guest at a community relations event sponsored by a State or local government, or by a civic organization exempt from taxation under 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(4), when:


(i) The cost of free attendance is provided by the sponsor of the event; and


(ii) The employee's agency designee determines that the community relations interests of the agency will be served by the employee's attendance in his or her personal capacity, and the employee's attendance outweighs any concern that acceptance would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the employee's integrity or impartiality.


(2) Refer to 5 CFR 2635.204(g)(5) in determining whether the cost of attendance may be considered to be provided by the sponsor of the event.


*Example 1 to paragraph (a)* [Community relations interest]: The City of Jacksonville, Florida, hosts a Military Appreciation Day event. Members of the general public are charged an admission fee to attend. Department of the Navy employees who have recently returned from deployment are invited and offered free admission for themselves and a guest. These Navy employees may personally accept the gift of free attendance for themselves and a guest, if their agency designee determines that their attendance at the event will serve a community relations interest and that employees' attendance outweighs concerns that acceptance would call into question their integrity or impartiality.


*Example 2 to paragraph (a)* [No community relations interest]: A foundation that provides grants to non-profit organizations focusing on environmental initiatives is sponsoring a fundraising golf tournament. The foundation is offering to waive the entry fee for military personnel at the local installation. Military personnel may not accept the offer by the sponsor to waive the entry fee under paragraph (a) of this section, because participation in this event does not further local community relations interests for the DoD installation. While the community relations exception may not be used to accept the gift, nothing in this section precludes an employee from accepting the gift if another gift exclusion, exception, or authority would apply.


(b) *Scholarships and grants.* An employee and his or her dependents may accept an educational scholarship or grant from an entity that does not have interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or non-performance of the employee's official duties, or from an association or similar entity that does not have a majority of members with such interests, if the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or the DAEO's designee makes a written determination that the scholarship or grant is made pursuant to an established program of recognition, including those established for the benefit of employees, or the dependents of employees. A scholarship or grant is made pursuant to an established program of recognition if:


(1) Scholarships or grants have been made on a regular basis or, if the program is new, there is a reasonable basis for concluding that scholarships or grants will be made on a regular basis based on funding or funding commitments; and


(2) Selection of recipients is made pursuant to written standards.






