# ยง 962.13   Subpoenas.

(a) *General.* Upon written request of either party filed with the Recorder or on his own initiative, the Presiding Officer may issue a subpoena requiring:


(1) *Testimony at a deposition.* The deposing of a witness in the city or county where he resides or is employed or transacts his business in person, or at another location convenient for him that is specifically determined by the Presiding Officer;


(2) *Testimony at a hearing.* The attendance of a witness for the purpose of taking testimony at a hearing; and 


(3) *Production of books and papers.* In addition to paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the production by the witness at the deposition or hearing of books and papers designated in the subpoena.


(b) *Voluntary cooperation.* Each party is expected (1) to cooperate and make available witnesses and evidence under its control as requested by the other party, without issuance of a subpoena, and (2) to secure voluntary attendance of desired third-party books, papers, documents, or other tangible things whenever possible.


(c) *Requests for subpoenas.* (1) A request for a subpoena shall normally be filed at least:


(i) 15 days before a scheduled deposition where the attendance of a witness at a deposition is sought;


(ii) 30 days before a scheduled hearing where the attendance of a witness at a hearing is sought.


(2) A request for a subpoena shall state the reasonable scope and general relevance to the case of the testimony and of any books, papers, documents, or other tangible things sought.


(3) The Presiding Officer, in his discretion, may honor requests for subpoenas not made within the time limitations specified in this paragraph.


(d) *Requests to quash or modify.* Upon written request by the person subpoenaed or by a party, made within 10 days after service but in any event not later than the time specified in the subpoena for compliance, the Presiding Officer may (1) quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable and oppressive or for other good cause shown, or (2) require the person in whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed books and papers. Where circumstances require, the Presiding Officer may act upon such a request at any time after a copy has been served upon the opposing party.


(e) *Form; issuance.* (1) Every subpoena shall state the title of the proceeding, shall cite 31 U.S.C. 3804(b) as the authority under which it is issued, and shall command each person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony, and if appropriate, to produce specified books and papers at a time and place therein specified. In issuing a subpoena to a requesting party, the Presiding Officer shall sign the subpoena and may, in his discretion, enter the name of the witness and otherwise leave it blank. The party to whom the subpoena is issued shall complete the subpoena before service. 


(2) Where the witness is located in a foreign country, a letter rogatory or subpoena may be issued and served under the circumstances and in the manner provided in 28 U.S.C. 1781-1784.


(f) *Service.* (1) The party requesting issuance of a subpoena shall arrange for service.


(2) A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a deposition or hearing may be served at any place. A subpoena may be served by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age. Service of a subpoena upon a person named therein shall be made by personally delivering a copy to that person and tendering the fees for one day's attendance and the mileage provided by 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable law.


(3) The party at whose instance a subpoena is issued shall be responsible for the payment of fees and mileage of the witness and of the officer who serves the subpoena. The failure to make payment of such charges on demand may be deemed by the Presiding Officer as sufficient ground for striking the testimony of the witness and the evidence the witness has produced.



---

[N] [52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]




