# § 98.243   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) If you route all process vent emissions and emissions from combustion of process off-gas to one or more stacks and use CEMS on each stack to measure CO_2_ emissions (except flare stacks), then you must determine process-based GHG emissions in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Otherwise, determine process-based GHG emissions in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.


(b) *Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS).* Route all process vent emissions and emissions from stationary combustion units that burn any amount of process off-gas to one or more stacks and determine GHG emissions as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Determine CO_2_ emissions from each stack (except flare stacks) according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology requirements in subpart C of this part.


(2) For each stack (except flare stacks) that includes emissions from combustion of petrochemical process off-gas, calculate CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions in accordance with subpart C of this part (use Equation C-10 and the “fuel gas” emission factors in Table C-2 of subpart C of this part).


(3) For each flare, calculate CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions using the methodology specified in § 98.253(b).






(c) *Mass balance for each petrochemical process unit.* Calculate the emissions of CO_2_ from each process unit, for each calendar month as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.


(1) For each gaseous and liquid feedstock and product, measure the volume or mass used or produced each calendar month with a flow meter by following the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(2). Alternatively, for liquids, you may calculate the volume used or collected in each month based on measurements of the liquid level in a storage tank at least once per month (and just prior to each change in direction of the level of the liquid) following the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(3). Fuels used for combustion purposes are not considered to be feedstocks.


(2) For each solid feedstock and product, measure the mass used or produced each calendar month by following the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(1).


(3) Collect a sample of each feedstock and product at least once per month and determine the molecular weight (for gaseous materials when the quantity is measured in scf) and carbon content of each sample according to the procedures of § 98.244(b)(4). If multiple valid molecular weight or carbon content measurements are made during the monthly measurement period, average them arithmetically. However, if a particular liquid or solid feedstock is delivered in lots, and if multiple deliveries of the same feedstock are received from the same supply source in a given calendar month, only one representative sample is required. Alternatively, you may use the results of analyses conducted by a feedstock supplier, or product customer, provided the sampling and analysis is conducted at least once per month using any of the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(4).


(4) If you determine that the monthly average concentration of a specific compound in a feedstock or product is greater than 99.5 percent by volume or mass, then as an alternative to the sampling and analysis specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, you may determine molecular weight and carbon content in accordance with paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Calculate the molecular weight and carbon content assuming 100 percent of that feedstock or product is the specific compound.


(ii) Maintain records of any determination made in accordance with this paragraph (c)(4) along with all supporting data, calculations, and other information.


(iii) Reevaluate determinations made under this paragraph (c)(4) after any process change that affects the feedstock or product composition. Keep records of the process change and the corresponding composition determinations. If the feedstock or product composition changes so that the average monthly concentration falls below 99.5 percent, you are no longer permitted to use this alternative method.


(5) Calculate the CO_2_ mass emissions for each petrochemical process unit using Equations X-1 through X-4 of this section.


(i) *Gaseous feedstocks and products.* Use Equation X-1 of this section to calculate the net annual carbon input or output from gaseous feedstocks and products. Note that the result will be a negative value if there are no gaseous feedstocks in the process but there are gaseous products.


(ii) *Liquid feedstocks and products.* Use Equation X-2 of this section to calculate the net carbon input or output from liquid feedstocks and products. Note that the result will be a negative value if there are no liquid feedstocks in the process but there are liquid products.


(iii) *Solid feedstocks and products.* Use Equation X-3 of this section to calculate the net annual carbon input or output from solid feedstocks and products. Note that the result will be a negative value if there are no solid feedstocks in the process but there are solid products.


(iv) *Annual emissions.* Use the results from Equations X-1 through X-3 of this section, as applicable, in Equation X-4 of this section to calculate annual CO_2_ emissions.


(d) *Optional combustion methodology for ethylene production processes.* For each ethylene production process, calculate GHG emissions from combustion units that burn fuel that contains any off-gas from the ethylene process as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.


(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(5) of this section, calculate CO_2_ emissions using the Tier 3 or Tier 4 methodology in subpart C of this part.


(2) You may use either Equation C-1 or Equation C-2a in subpart C of this part to calculate CO_2_ emissions from combustion of any ethylene process off-gas streams that meet either of the conditions in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (d)(2)(ii) of this section (for any default values in the calculation, use the defaults for fuel gas in Table C-1 of subpart C of this part). Follow the otherwise applicable procedures in subpart C to calculate emissions from combustion of all other fuels in the combustion unit.


(i) The annual average flow rate of fuel gas (that contains ethylene process off-gas) in the fuel gas line to the combustion unit, prior to any split to individual burners or ports, does not exceed 345 standard cubic feet per minute at 60 °F and 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute, and a flow meter is not installed at any point in the line supplying fuel gas or an upstream common pipe. Calculate the annual average flow rate using company records assuming total flow is evenly distributed over 525,600 minutes per year.


(ii) The combustion unit has a maximum rated heat input capacity of less than 30 mmBtu/hr, and a flow meter is not installed at any point in the line supplying fuel gas (that contains ethylene process off-gas) or an upstream common pipe.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, calculate CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions using the applicable procedures in § 98.33(c) for the same tier methodology that you used for calculating CO_2_ emissions.


(i) For all gaseous fuels that contain ethylene process off-gas, use the emission factors for “Fuel Gas” in Table C-2 of subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(ii) For Tier 3, use either the default high heat value for fuel gas in Table C-1 of subpart C of this part or a calculated HHV, as allowed in Equation C-8 of subpart C of this part.


(4) You are not required to use the same Tier for each stationary combustion unit that burns ethylene process off-gas.




(5) For each flare, calculate CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions using the methodology specified in § 98.253(b).





---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79157, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71961, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89260, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31929, Apr. 25, 2024]










