# § 62.21   Short-term scholars.

(a) *Introduction.* These regulations govern scholars coming to the United States for a period of up to four months to lecture, observe, consult, and to participate in seminars, workshops, conferences, study tours, professional meetings, or similar types of educational and professional activities.


(b) *Purpose.* The Exchange Visitor Program promotes the interchange of knowledge and skills among foreign and American scholars. It does so by providing foreign scholars the opportunity to exchange ideas with their American colleagues, participate in educational and professional programs, confer on common problems and projects, and promote professional relationships and communications.


(c) *Designation.* The Department of State may, in its sole discretion, designate *bona fide* programs which offer foreign nationals the opportunity to engage in short-term visits for the purpose of lecturing, observing, consulting, training, or demonstrating special skills at research institutions, museums, libraries, post-secondary accredited educational institutions, or similar types of institutions.


(d) *Visitor eligibility.* A person participating in the Exchange Visitor Program under this section shall satisfy the definition of a short-term scholar as set forth in § 62.4.


(e) *Cross-cultural activities and orientation.* Due to the nature of such exchanges, sponsors of programs for short-term scholars shall be exempted from the requirements of providing cross-cultural activities and orientation as set forth in § 62.8(d) and § 62.10(c). However, sponsors are encouraged to provide such programs for short-term scholars whenever appropriate.


(f) *Location of exchange.* The short-term scholar shall participate in the Exchange Visitor Program at the conferences, workshops, seminars, or other events or activities stated on his or her Form DS-2019. A participant may also lecture or consult at institutions not listed on the Form DS-2019 if his or her Responsible Officer issues a written authorization of such activity. Such written authorization must be attached to the participant's Form DS-2019.


(g) *Duration of participation.* The short-term scholar shall be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which time shall not exceed six months. Programs under this section are exempted from § 62.8(b) governing the minimum duration of a program. Extensions beyond the duration of participation are not permitted under this category.



---

[N] [58 FR 15196, Mar. 19, 1993; 58 FR 48448, Sept. 16, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 39585, July 30, 1996; 64 FR 17975, Apr. 13, 1999. Redesignated at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999]




