# § 146.35   Temporary deposit in a zone; incomplete documentation.

(a) *General.* Temporary deposit of merchandise in a zone is allowed in circumstances where the information or documentation necessary to complete the Customs Form 214 is not available at the time of arrival of merchandise within the jurisdiction of the port. The merchandise will be subject to examination as provided in § 146.36.


(b) *Application.* An application for temporary deposit will be made to the port director on a properly signed and uniquely numbered Customs Form 214, annotated clearly “Temporary Deposit in a Zone”.


(c) *Conditions.* Merchandise temporarily deposited under the provisions of this section has no zone status and is considered to be in the Customs territory. It will:


(1) Be physically segregated from all other zone merchandise; 


(2) Be held under the bond and at the risk of the operator; and 


(3) Be manipulated only to the extent necessary to obtain sufficient information about the merchandise to file the appropriate admission or entry documentation.


(d) *Approval.* The port director shall approve the application for temporary deposit of merchandise in a zone if the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are met.


(e) *Submission of CBP Form 214.* A complete and accurate CBP Form 214 must be submitted, as provided in § 146.32, within 15 calendar days with no exceptions granted by the port director, or the merchandise will be placed in general order.



---

[N] [T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52452, Aug. 26, 2010]




