# ยง 1302.2   Requirements for making requests for access.

(a) *How made and addressed.* You may make a Privacy Act request for access to an OMB record by mail or delivery service, to Privacy Officer, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street NW, Room 9204, Washington, DC 20503 or by electronic means as described on OMB's privacy program web page: *www.whitehouse.gov/omb/privacy.*

(b) *Description of the records sought.* In making a request for access, you must describe the records that you want in enough detail to enable OMB to locate the system of records containing them with a reasonable amount of effort. Your access request should name the system of records or contain a concise description of such system of records. OMB publishes notices of OMB systems of records subject to the Privacy Act in the _Federal Register_.


(c) *Information about yourself.* Your access request should also contain sufficient information to identify yourself in order to allow OMB to determine if there is a record pertaining to you in a particular system of records.


(d) *Verification of identity.* To ensure that information about you is disclosed only to you or your authorized representative, you are required to verify your identity when making a Privacy Act request for access, as detailed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. If OMB cannot verify your identity, disclosure will be limited to information that would be required to be made available if requested under 5 U.S.C. 552 by any person.


(1) You must state your name, current address, and date and place of birth and provide either a notarized statement of identity or a signed submission under 28 U.S.C. 1746; or


(2) When available, verify your identity through remote identity-proofing and authentication using digital processes.


(3) OMB may require you to supply additional information as necessary in order to verify your identity.


(e) *Verification of guardianship.* When making a request for access as the parent or guardian of a minor or as the guardian of someone determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, you must establish the criteria listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section. If OMB cannot verify your identity, disclosure will be limited to information that would be required to be made available if requested under 5 U.S.C. 552 by any person.


(1) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, and date and place of birth;


(2) Your own identity, as required in this paragraph (e);


(3) That you are the parent or guardian of that individual, which you may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing your parentage or by providing a court order establishing your guardianship; and


(4) That you are acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.


(f) *Submit identifying information only using approved OMB processes.* In order to safeguard information you submit in making a request for access for purposes of verifying your identity or verifying guardianship, or any information about yourself that may assist in the rapid identification of the record to which you are requesting access (*e.g.,* prior names, dates of employment, etc.) as well as any other identifying information contained in an OMB system of records, you must use one of OMB's approved processes as described on OMB's privacy program web page. Failure to submit identifying information through an OMB approved process may result in the failure to expunge your information in accordance with approved OMB records schedules after your access request has been processed.


(g) *Subsequent requests for access.* If your request for access follows a prior request under this section, and you already provided appropriate verifications with that prior request, you do not need to include the same verification or identifying information in the subsequent request for access if you reference that prior request or attach a copy of the OMB response to that request.






