# § 54.1800   Definitions.

(a) *Administrator.* The term “Administrator” means the Universal Service Administrative Company.


(b) *Affordable connectivity benefit.* The term “affordable connectivity benefit” means a monthly discount for an eligible household, applied to the actual amount charged to such household, in an amount equal to such amount charged, but not more than $30, or, if an internet service offering is provided to an eligible household on Tribal land, not more than $75.


(c) *Broadband internet access service.* The term “broadband internet access service” has the meaning given such term in 47 CFR 8.1(b) or any successor regulation.


(d) *Broadband provider.* The term “broadband provider” means a provider of broadband internet access service.


(e) *Commission.* The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.


(f) *Connected device.* The term “connected device” means a laptop or desktop computer or a tablet.


(g) *Designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier.* The term “designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier,” with respect to a broadband provider, means the broadband provider is designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier under section 214(e) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 214(e)).


(h) *Direct service.* As used in this subpart, direct service means the provision of service directly to the qualifying low-income consumer.


(i) *Duplicative support.* “Duplicative support” exists when an Affordable Connectivity Program subscriber or household is receiving two or more Affordable Connectivity Program services concurrently or two or more subscribers in a household have received a connected device with an Affordable Connectivity Program discount.


(j) *Eligible household.* The term “eligible household” means, regardless of whether the household or any member of the household receives support under subpart E of this Part, and regardless of whether any member of the household has any past or present arrearages with a broadband provider, a household in which—


(1) At least one member of the household meets the qualifications in § 54.409(a)(2) or (3) or (b);




(2) The household's income as defined in § 54.1800(k) is at or below 200% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for a household of that size;


(3) At least one member of the household has applied for and been approved to receive benefits under the free and reduced price lunch program under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 *et seq.*) or the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773), or at least one member of the household is enrolled in a school or school district that participates in the Community Eligibility Provision (42 U.S.C. 1759a);


(4) At least one member of the household has received a Federal Pell Grant under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a) in the current award year, if such award is verifiable through the National Verifier or National Lifeline Accountability Database or the participating provider verifies eligibility under § 54.1806(a)(2);


(5) At least one member of the household meets the eligibility criteria for a participating provider's existing low-income program, subject to the requirements of § 54.1806(a)(2); or


(6) At least one member of the household receives assistance through the special supplemental nutritional program for women, infants and children established by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1786).






(k) *Enrollment representative.* “Enrollment representative” means an employee, agent, contractor, or subcontractor, acting on behalf of a participating provider or third-party entity, who directly or indirectly provides information to the Administrator for the purpose of eligibility verification, enrollment, subscriber personal information updates, benefit transfers, or de-enrollment.


(l) *Household.* A “household” is any individual or group of individuals who are living together at the same address as one economic unit. A household may include related and unrelated persons. An “economic unit” consists of all adult individuals contributing to and sharing in the income and expenses of a household. An adult is any person eighteen years or older. If an adult has no or minimal income, and lives with someone who provides financial support to him/her, both people shall be considered part of the same household. Children under the age of eighteen living with their parents or guardians are considered to be part of the same household as their parents or guardians.


(m) *Income.* “Income” means gross income as defined under section 61 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 61, for all members of the household. This means all income actually received by all members of the household from whatever source derived, unless specifically excluded by the Internal Revenue Code, Part III of Title 26, 26 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.*

(n) *Internet service offering.* The term “internet service offering” means, with respect to a broadband provider, broadband internet access service provided by such provider to a household.


(o) *Lifeline qualifying assistance program.* A “Lifeline qualifying assistance program” means any of the Federal or Tribal assistance programs the participation in which, pursuant to § 54.409(a) or (b), qualifies a consumer for Lifeline service, including Medicaid; Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; Supplemental Security Income; Federal Public Housing Assistance; Veterans and Survivors Pension Benefit; Bureau of Indian Affairs general assistance; Tribally administered Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (Tribal TANF); Head Start (only those households meeting its income qualifying standard); or the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR).


(p) *National Lifeline Accountability Database.* The “National Lifeline Accountability Database” is an electronic system, with associated functions, processes, policies and procedures, to facilitate the detection and elimination of duplicative support, as directed by the Commission.


(q) *National Lifeline Eligibility Verifier or National Verifier.* The “National Lifeline Eligibility Verifier” or “National Verifier” is an electronic and manual system with associated functions, processes, policies and procedures, to facilitate the determination of consumer eligibility for the Lifeline program and Affordable Connectivity Program, as directed by the Commission.


(r) *Participating provider.* The term “participating provider” means a broadband provider that—


(1) Is designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier; or


(2) Meets the requirements established by the Commission for participation in the Affordable Connectivity Program and is approved by the Commission under § 54.1801(b); and


(3) Elects to participate in the Affordable Connectivity Program; and


(4) Has not been removed or voluntarily withdrawn from the Affordable Connectivity Program pursuant to § 54.1801(e).


(s) *Tribal lands.* For purposes of this subpart, “Tribal lands” include any federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation, pueblo, or colony, including former reservations in Oklahoma; Alaska Native regions established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688); Indian allotments; Hawaiian Home Lands—areas held in trust for Native Hawaiians by the State of Hawaii, pursuant to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 July 9, 1921, 42 Stat. 108, *et. seq.,* as amended; and any land designated as such by the Commission for purposes of subpart E of this part pursuant to the designation process in § 54.412.



---

[N] [87 FR 8373, Feb. 14, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 84447, Dec. 5, 2023; 89 FR 70120, Aug. 29, 2024]






