# § 515.576   Activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes.

(a) *General license.* The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to activities by private foundations or research or educational institutes with an established interest in international relations to collect information related to Cuba for noncommercial purposes are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.


(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.


(c) *Certain direct financial transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.


(d) *Certain travel-related transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.


(e) *Specific licenses.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 2300, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]




