# § 676.18   Use of funds.

(a) *General.* An institution may use its FSEOG allocation and reallocation only for—


(1) Making grants to eligible students; and


(2) Paying administrative expenses as provided for in 34 CFR 673.7.


(b) *Transfer back of funds to FWS.* An institution shall transfer back to the FWS program any funds unexpended at the end of the award year that it transferred to the FSEOG program from the FWS program.


(c) *Carry forward funds.* (1) An institution may carry forward and expend in the next award year up to 10 percent of the sum of its initial and supplemental FSEOG allocations for the current award year.


(2) Before an institution may spend its current year FSEOG allocation, it must spend any funds carried forward from the previous year.


(d) *Carry back funds.* An institution may carry back and expend in the previous award year up to 10 percent of the sum of its initial and supplemental FSEOG allocations for the current award year. The institution's official allocation letter represents the Secretary's approval to carry back funds.


(e) *Use of funds carried forward and carried back.* An institution may use the funds carried forward or carried back under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, respectively, for activities described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(f) *Carry back funds for summer FSEOG awards.* An institution may carry back and expend in the previous award year any portion of its initial and supplemental FSEOG allocations for the current award year to make awards to eligible students for payment periods that begin on or after May 1 of the previous award year but end prior to the beginning of the current award year.



---

[N] [52 FR 45778, Dec. 1, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32357, July 21, 1992; 59 FR 61420, 61421, Nov. 30, 1994; 61 FR 60396, Nov. 27, 1996; 64 FR 58294, Oct. 28, 1999]




