# § 416.1150   How we treat income received because of a major disaster.

(a) *General.* The Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act and other Federal statutes provide assistance to victims of major disasters. In this section we describe when we do not count certain kinds of assistance you receive under these statutes.


(b) *Support and maintenance.* (1) We do not count the value of support and maintenance (in cash or in kind) received from a Federal, State, or local government source, or from a disaster assistance organization, and the one-third reduction rule does not apply if—


(i) You live in a household which you or you and another person maintain as your home when a catastrophe occurs in the area;


(ii) The President of the United States declares the catastrophe to be a major disaster for purposes of the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act;


(iii) You stop living in the home because of the catastrophe and within 30 days after the catastrophe you begin to receive support and maintenance; and


(iv) You receive the support and maintenance while living in a residential facility maintained by another person.


(2) We do not count the value of support and maintenance (in cash or in kind) received from any other source, such as from a private household, and the one-third reduction rule does not apply for up to 18 months after you begin to receive it if—


(i) You live in a household which you or you and another person maintain as your home when a catastrophe occurs in the area;


(ii) The President of the United States declares the catastrophe to be a major disaster for purposes of the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act;


(iii) You stop living in the home because of the catastrophe and within 30 days after the catastrophe you begin to receive support and maintenance; and


(iv) You receive the support and maintenance while living in a residential facility (including a private household) maintained by another person.


(c) *Other assistance you receive.* We do not consider other assistance to be income if you receive it under the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act or under another Federal statute because of a catastrophe which the President declares to be a major disaster or if you receive it from a State or local government or from a disaster assistance organization. For example, you may receive payments to repair or replace your home or other property.


(d) *Interest payments.* We do not count any interest earned on the assistance payments described in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [57 FR 53850, Nov. 13, 1992]




