# ยง 987.12   Marketable dates.

*Marketable dates* means those dates which are certified as equal to or higher than the applicable minimum grade and size requirements in effect pursuant to ยง 987.39, and any additional applicable requirements in effect pursuant to ยง 987.40. Marketable dates shall include but not be limited to the following:


(a) *DAC dates.* DAC dates are marketable whole or pitted dates that are inspected and certified as meeting the grade, size, container, and identification requirements established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, for a specific variety for handling in the United States and Canada.


(b) *Dates for further processing.* Dates for further processing (FP) are marketable whole dates acquired by one handler from another handler that are certified as meeting the same grade and size requirements for DAC dates, with the exception of moisture requirements, and such identification requirements applicable to FP dates that are established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, for any specific variety.


(c) *Export dates.* Export dates are marketable whole or pitted dates that are inspected and certified as meeting the grade, size, container, and identification requirements established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, for a specific variety, to be handled in export to any country or group of countries with the exception of Canada. The Committee may establish different requirements for different countries.


(d) *Product dates.* Product dates are marketable dates that are inspected and certified as meeting the applicable grade and size requirements for dates to be handled in such forms as rings, chunks, pieces, butter, macerate, paste, or any other forms which the Committee deems appropriate and which will result in dates moving into consumption in a form other than that of whole or pitted dates.



---

[N] [43 FR 4250, Feb. 1, 1978, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]




