# § 647.7   What definitions apply?

(a) *General definitions.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, or 34 CFR 77.1:


(b) *Other definitions.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Different campus* means a site of an institution of higher education that—


(1) Is geographically apart from the main campus of the institution;


(2) Is permanent in nature; and


(3) Offers courses in educational programs leading to a degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential.


*Different population* means a group of individuals that an eligible entity desires to serve through an application for a grant under the McNair TRIO program and that—


(1) Is separate and distinct from any other population that the entity has applied for a grant to serve; or


(2) While sharing some of the same needs as another population that the eligible entity has applied for a grant to serve, has distinct needs for specialized services.


*Financial and economic literacy* means knowledge about personal financial decision-making, which may include but is not limited to knowledge about—


(1) Personal and family budget planning;


(2) Understanding credit-building principles to meet long-term and short-term goals (*e.g.,* loan to debt ratio, credit scoring, negative impacts on credit scores);


(3) Cost planning for postsecondary or postbaccalaureate education (e.g., spending, saving, personal budgeting);


(4) College cost of attendance (*e.g.,* public vs. private, tuition vs. fees, personal costs);


(5) Financial assistance (*e.g.,* searches, application processes, and differences between private and government loans, assistanceships); and


(6) Assistance in completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).


*First-generation college student* means—


(1) A student neither of whose natural or adoptive parents received a baccalaureate degree; or


(2) A student who, prior to the age of 18, regularly resided with and received support from only one parent, and whose supporting parent did not receive a baccalaureate degree.


(3) An individual who, prior to the age of 18, did not regularly reside with or receive support from a natural or an adoptive parent.


*Graduate center* means an institution of higher education as defined in sections 101 and 102 of the HEA; and that—


(1) Provides instruction in one or more programs leading to a doctoral degree;


(2) Maintains specialized library collections;


(3) Employs scholars engaged in research that relates to the subject areas of the center; and


(4) Provides outreach and consultative services on a national, regional or local basis.


*Graduate education* means studies beyond the bachelor's degree leading to a postbaccalaureate degree.


*Groups underrepresented in graduate education.* The following ethnic and racial groups are considered underrepresented in graduate education: Black (non-Hispanic), Hispanic, American Indian, Alaskan Native (as defined in section 7306 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (ESEA)), Native Hawaiians (as defined in section 7207 of the ESEA), and Native American Pacific Islanders (as defined in section 320 of the HEA).


*HEA* means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


*Institution of higher education* means an educational institution as defined in sections 101 and 102 of the HEA.


*Low-income individual* means an individual whose family's taxable income did not exceed 150 percent of the poverty level in the calendar year preceding the year in which the individual participates in the project. Poverty level income is determined by using criteria of poverty established by the Bureau of the Census of the U.S. Department of Commerce.


*Research or scholarly activity* means an educational activity that is more rigorous than is typically available to undergraduates in a classroom setting, that is definitive in its start and end dates, contains appropriate benchmarks for completion of various components, and is conducted under the guidance of an appropriate faculty member with experience in the relevant discipline.


*Target population* means the universe from which McNair participants will be selected. The universe may be expressed in terms of geography, type of institution, academic discipline, type of disadvantage, type of underrepresentation, or any other qualifying descriptor that would enable an applicant to more precisely identify the kinds of eligible project participants they wish to serve.



---

[N] [59 FR 43989, Aug. 25, 1994, as amended at 75 FR 65794, Oct. 26, 2010; 79 FR 76103, Dec. 19, 2014]




