# § 423.886   Retiree drug subsidy amounts.

(a) *Amount of subsidy payment.* (1) For each qualifying covered retiree enrolled with the sponsor of a qualified retiree prescription drug plan in a plan year, the sponsor receives a subsidy payment in the amount of 28 percent of the allowable retiree costs (as defined in § 423.882) in the plan year for such retiree attributable to gross retiree costs between the cost threshold and the cost limit as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. The subsidy payment is calculated by first determining gross retiree costs between the cost threshold and cost limit, and then determining allowable retiree costs attributable to the gross retiree costs. For this purpose and where otherwise relevant in this subpart, plan year is the calendar, policy, or fiscal year on which the records of a plan are kept.


(2) *Transition provision.* For a qualified retiree prescription drug plan that has a plan year which begins in calendar year 2005 and ends in calendar year 2006, the subsidy for the plan year must be determined in the following manner. Claims incurred in all months of the plan year (including claims incurred in 2005) are taken into account in determining which claims fall within the cost threshold and cost limit for the plan year. The subsidy amount is determined based only on costs incurred on and after January 1, 2006.


(b) *Cost threshold and cost limit.* The following cost threshold and cost limits apply—


(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the cost threshold under this section is equal to $250 for plan years that end in 2006.


(2) Subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the cost limit under this section is equal to $5,000 for plan years that end in 2006.


(3) The cost threshold and cost limit specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, for plan years that end in years after 2006, are adjusted in the same manner as the annual Part D deductible and the annual Part D out-of-pocket threshold are adjusted annually under § 423.104(d)(1)(ii) and (d)(5)(iii)(B), respectively.




