# § 111.3   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.


*Dependent abuse offense.* Conduct by an individual while a Military Service member on active duty for a period of more than 30 days that involves abuse of a then-current spouse or a dependent child of the Service member and that is a criminal offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice or another criminal code applicable to the jurisdiction where the act of abuse is committed. The term “involves abuse of the then-current spouse or a dependent child” means that the criminal offense is against the person of that spouse or a dependent child. Crimes that may qualify as dependent-abuse offenses include sexual assault, rape, sodomy, assault, battery, murder, and manslaughter. (This is not an exhaustive or exclusive listing of dependent-abuse offenses, but is provided for illustrative purposes only. The facts and circumstances of a particular case should always be interpreted in a manner most favorable to the spouse or a dependent child of the member when determining whether the conduct constitutes a “dependent abuse offense.”)


*Dependent child.* As defined in 10 U.S.C. 1059.


*Exchange stores.* The Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the Navy Exchange, the Marine Corps Exchange, and the Coast Guard Exchange.


*Parent.* The natural father or mother, or father or mother through adoption. For purposes of TC, parent does not include persons who have stood “in loco parentis” to a dependent child.


*Secretary concerned.* Includes the Secretary of the cognizant Military Department and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, when applicable.


*Service member.* Includes former Service members, where appropriate.


*Spouse.* An individual married to a Service member, but does not include a domestic partner.




