# § 172.892   Food starch-modified.

Food starch-modified as described in this section may be safely used in food. The quantity of any substance employed to effect such modification shall not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect, nor exceed any limitation prescribed. To insure safe use of the food starch-modified, the label of the food additive container shall bear the name of the additive “food starch-modified” in addition to other information required by the Act. Food starch may be modified by treatment prescribed as follows:


(a) Food starch may be acid-modified by treatment with hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid or both.


(b) Food starch may be bleached by treatment with one or more of the following:


(c) Food starch may be oxidized by treatment with chlorine, as sodium hypochlorite, not to exceed 0.055 pound of chlorine per pound of dry starch.


(d) Food starch may be esterified by treatment with one of the following:


(e) Food starch may be etherified by treatment with one of the following:


(f) Food starch may be esterified and etherified by treatment with one of the following:


(g) Food starch may be modified by treatment with one of the following:


(h) Food starch may be modified by a combination of the treatments prescribed by paragraphs (a), (b), and/or (i) of this section and any one of the treatments prescribed by paragraph (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this section, subject to any limitations prescribed by the paragraphs named.


(i) Food starch may be modified by treatment with the following enzymes:



---

[N] [42 FR 14491, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 11697, Mar. 21, 1978; 46 FR 32015, June 19, 1981; 57 FR 54700, Nov. 20, 1992; 58 FR 21100, Apr. 19, 1993; 66 FR 17509, Apr. 2, 2001]




