# § 300.25   Fisheries management.

(a) *Longline tuna catch limits.* (1) Fishing seasons for all tuna species begin on 0000 hours Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) January 1 and end either on 2400 hours UTC December 31 or when NMFS closes the fishery for a specific species.






(2) There is a limit of 750 metric tons of bigeye tuna that may be caught by longline gear in the Convention Area by U.S. commercial fishing vessels that are over 24 meters in overall length. The catch limit within a calendar year is subject to increase if the United States receives a transfer of catch limit from another IATTC member or cooperating non-member, per paragraph (a)(5) of this section.














(3) NMFS will project a date the limit of bigeye tuna established under paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be reached (*i.e.,* a closure date) by monitoring longline landings, data submitted in logbooks, and other available information. NMFS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ at least 7 calendar days in advance of that projected closure date announcing that the limit has been reached. The _Federal Register_ notice will specify that the restrictions described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will be in effect through the end of the calendar year.


(4) Once the closure date is announced, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section the following restrictions will apply during the period specified in the announcement:


(i) A fishing vessel of the United States over 24 meters in overall length may not be used to retain on board, transship, or land bigeye tuna captured by longline gear in the Convention Area, except as follows:


(A) Any bigeye tuna already on board a U.S. fishing vessel upon the effective closure date may be retained on board, transshipped, and/or landed, to the extent authorized by applicable laws and regulations, provided that the bigeye tuna is landed within 14 days after the effective closure date.


(B) The 14-day limit is waived in the case of a U.S. fishing vessel that has already declared to NMFS, pursuant to § 665.803(a) of this title, that the current trip type is shallow-setting. However, the number of bigeye tuna retained on board, transshipped, or landed must not exceed the number on board the vessel upon the effective closure date, as recorded by the NMFS observer on board the vessel.


(ii) Bigeye tuna caught by a vessel of the United States over 24 meters in overall length and using longline gear in the Convention Area may not be transshipped to a fishing vessel unless that fishing vessel is operated in compliance with a valid permit issued under § 660.707 or § 665.801 of this title.


(iii) A fishing vessel of the United States over 24 meters in overall length may not be used to fish in the Pacific Ocean using longline gear both inside and outside the Convention Area during the same fishing trip. The only exceptions are: a fishing trip during which the closure date was announced under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and a trip for which a declaration has been made to NMFS, pursuant to § 665.803(a) of this title, that the current trip is shallow-setting.


(iv) If a fishing vessel of the United States over 24 meters in overall length is used to fish in the Pacific Ocean using longline gear outside the Convention Area and the vessel enters the Convention Area at any time during an effective closure period on the same fishing trip, the longline gear on the fishing vessel must be stowed in a manner so as not to be readily available for fishing. Specifically, the hooks, branch or dropper lines, and floats used to buoy the mainline must be stowed and not available for immediate use, and any power-operated mainline hauler on deck must be covered in such a manner that it is not readily available for use. This provision does not apply to trips in which vessels have made a declaration to NMFS, pursuant to § 665.803(a) of this title, that the trip type is shallow-setting.


(5) If the United States engages in a transfer of a bigeye tuna catch limit with another IATTC member or cooperating non-member, NMFS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ announcing the new catch limit that is available to U.S. commercial fishing vessels that are over 24 meters in overall length. All restrictions described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) through (4) of this section will continue to apply.


(b) *Use of tender vessels.* No person subject to these regulations may use a tender vessel in the Convention Area.


(c) *Transshipments at sea.* No person subject to these regulations may transship purse seine-caught tuna from one vessel to another vessel at sea within the Convention Area.




(d) *Observer requirements*—(1) *Purse seine vessels.* (i) The holder of an eastern tropical Pacific Ocean vessel permit, as required by § 216.24(b) of this title, must allow an observer duly authorized by the Administrator, West Coast Region, to accompany the vessel on all fishing trips in the IATTC Convention Area for the purpose of conducting research and observing operations, including collecting information that may be used in civil or criminal penalty proceedings, forfeiture actions, or permit sanctions, pursuant to the requirements in § 216.24(e) of this title. A vessel that fails to carry an observer in accordance with these requirements may not engage in fishing operations unless an exemption has been granted from these requirements as provided for in § 216.24(e)(1)(i) of this title.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) [Reserved]










(e) *Purse seine closures*—(1) *72-day closure.* A U.S. commercial purse seine fishing vessel that is of class size 4-6 (more than 182 metric tons carrying capacity) may not be used to fish with purse seine gear in the Convention Area for 72 days during one of the following two periods:


(i) From 0000 hours Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) July 29 to 2400 hours UTC October 8; or


(ii) From 0000 hours UTC November 9 to 2400 hours UTC January 19 of the following year.


(2) *Additional closure days for vessels that exceed bigeye tuna catch levels.* (i) In 2023 and 2024, U.S. purse seine vessels that exceed a certain annual catch level of bigeye tuna must increase the number of closure days they observe in the following year, as specified in table 1 to this paragraph (e)(2).


(ii) The additional days of closure must be added to one of the two closure periods indicated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. For vessels observing the first closure period, the additional days must be added at the beginning of the closure period. For vessels observing the second closure period, the additional days must be added to the end of the closure period. The HMS Branch will confirm the determination of annual catch levels for U.S. purse vessels based on information provided by the IATTC and notify any U.S. vessel that exceeds a given catch level.


(3) *Choice of closure period.* A vessel owner, manager, or association representative of a vessel that is subject to the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section must provide written notification to the Regional Administrator declaring which one of the two closure periods identified in paragraph (e)(1) their vessel will observe in that year. This written notification must be submitted by email to *wcr.hms@noaa.gov* and must be received no later than May 15 of the relevant calendar year. The written notification must include the vessel name and registration number, the closure dates that will be observed by that vessel, and the vessel owner or managing owner's name, signature, business address, and business telephone number.


(4) *Default closure period.* If written notification is not submitted per paragraph (e)(3) of this section for a vessel subject to the requirements under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, that vessel must observe the second closure period under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.


(5) *Request for exemption due to force majeure.* A vessel may request a reduced closure period if a *force majeure* event renders the vessel unable to proceed to sea outside one of the two closure periods specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for at least 75 continuous days. A vessel will only be eligible for an exemption due to *force majeure* if the vessel was disabled in the course of fishing operations by mechanical and/or structural failure, fire, or explosion.


(i) A request for an exemption due to *force majeure* must be made to the Highly Migratory Species Branch no later than 20 calendar days after the end of the period of inactivity due to *force majeure.* The request must be made via email to *wcr.hms@noaa.gov* or by contacting the HMS Branch. The request must include the name and official number of the vessel, vessel owner or manager's name and signature, and evidence to support the request, which may include but is not limited to photographs, repair bills, certificates of departure from port, and in the case of a marine casualty, a completed copy of the U.S. Coast Guard Form CG-2692A (See 46 CFR 4.05-10).


(ii) If accepted by the Sustainable Fisheries Division, the request for exemption due to *force majeure* will be forwarded to the IATTC Director. If declined by the Sustainable Fisheries Division, the applicant may provide additional information or documentation to the Sustainable Fisheries Division with a request that the initial decision be reconsidered by email to *wcr.hms@noaa.gov,* or by contacting the HMS Branch Chief.


(iii) If the request for an exemption due to *force majeure* is accepted by the IATTC, the vessel may observe a reduced closure period of 40 consecutive days in the same year during which the *force majeure* event occurred, in one of the two closure periods described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. After a request is accepted by the IATTC, the vessel owner or manager must specify to the HMS Branch which 40 consecutive days the vessel will observe for their reduced closure period.


(iv) If the request for an exemption due to *force majeure* is accepted by the IATTC and the vessel has already observed a closure period described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section in the same year during which the *force majeure* event occurred, the vessel may observe a reduced closure period of 40 consecutive days the following year, in one of the two closure periods described in paragraph (e)(1).


(v) An exemption due to *force majeure* will only apply to the 72-day closure period required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Vessels that are both granted a reduced 40-day initial closure period due to *force majeure* under this paragraph (e)(5) and required to observe additional closure days for exceeding bigeye tuna catch levels under paragraph (e)(2) of this section must observe the reduced closure period consecutively with the additional closure days by adding the additional closure days to either the beginning of the first reduced closure period or the end of the second reduced closure period.


(vi) Any purse seine vessel for which a *force majeure* request is accepted by the IATTC must carry an observer aboard authorized pursuant to the International Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program, unless that vessel has been granted an exemption from the Regional Administrator.


(6) *31-day area closure.* A U.S. fishing vessel of class size 4-6 (more than 182 metric tons carrying capacity) may not be used from 0000 hours on October 9 to 2400 hours on November 8 to fish with purse seine gear within the area bounded at the east and west by 96° and 110° W longitude and bounded at the north and south by 4° N and 3° S latitude.


(7) *Requirement to stow gear.* At all times while a vessel is in a time/area closed period established under paragraph (e)(1) or (6) of this section, unless fishing under the exception under paragraph (e)(5) of this section, the fishing gear of the vessel must be stowed in a manner as not to be readily available for fishing. In particular, the boom must be lowered as far as possible so that the vessel cannot be used for fishing, but so that the skiff is accessible for use in emergency situations; the helicopter, if any, must be tied down; and launches must be secured.








(f) *Restrictions on fishing in proximity to data buoys.* (1) A longline or purse seine fishing vessel of the United States may not be used to fish for HMS within one nautical mile of an anchored data buoy in the Convention Area. The one-nautical-mile distance shall be measured from the data buoy to the nearest portion of the fishing vessel or items associated with the fishing vessel, such as gear or watercraft deployed by the fishing vessel, to the data buoy. This prohibition shall not apply if and when the fishing vessel is operated as part of a scientific research program that has received specific authorization by the IATTC or is conducting work on behalf of the IATTC.


(2) A fishing vessel of the United States used to fish for HMS, or any fishing gear, equipment, or watercraft deployed by such a fishing vessel, may not be used to interact with a data buoy while the fishing vessel is in the Convention Area. Interact with a data buoy means to engage in conduct that could impair the functioning of a data buoy through actions that include but that are not limited to the following: encircling the buoy with fishing gear; tying up to or attaching the vessel, or any fishing gear, part or portion of the fishing vessel, including equipment such as watercraft, to a data buoy or its mooring; or cutting a data buoy anchor line.


(3) A vessel operator, crew member, or other persons on board a fishing vessel of the United States that is used to fish for HMS may not remove a data buoy or any parts thereof from the water and place it on board the fishing vessel or tow a data buoy when in the Convention Area unless authorized to do so by the owner of the data buoy or an authorized representative or agent of the owner. When practicable, advance written authorization must be available onboard a U.S. fishing vessel that has taken on board or tows a data buoy. In all other cases, a written document (*e.g.,* fax, email) verifying the authorization must be obtained by the vessel owner or operator within 15 days of landing.


(4) In the event that a fishing vessel of the United States that is used to fish for HMS or any of its fishing gear, equipment, or associated watercraft, becomes entangled with a data buoy while the fishing vessel is in the Convention Area, the owner and operator of the fishing vessel must promptly remove the entangled fishing vessel, fishing gear, equipment, or associated watercraft with as little damage to the data buoy and its mooring and anchor lines as possible.


(5) A vessel operator, crew member, or other persons on board a fishing vessel of the United States that is used to fish for HMS must take all reasonable measures to avoid fishing gear entanglement or interaction with drifting data buoys.




(g) *Pacific bluefin tuna (Thunnus orientalis) commercial catch limits in the eastern Pacific Ocean for 2022-2024*—(1) *Biennial catch limit for 2021-2022.* The biennial catch limit for 2021-2022 is 739 metric tons.


(2) *Biennial catch limit for 2023-2024.* The biennial catch limit for 2023-2024 is either:


(i) 1,017 metric tons increased by the amount, not to exceed 37 metric tons, of Pacific bluefin tuna catch remaining from the 2021-2022 U.S. commercial catch limit; or,


(ii) 1,017 metric tons reduced by the amount of Pacific bluefin tuna caught in excess of the 2021-2022 U.S. commercial biennial catch limit.


(3) *Annual catch and trip limits for 2022.* For the calendar year 2022, all commercial fishing vessels of the United States combined may capture, retain, transship, or land no more than 523 metric tons. A 20-metric ton trip limit will be in effect until any of the following criteria are met:


(4) *Annual catch and trip limits for 2023.* For the calendar year 2023, all commercial fishing vessels of the United States combined may capture, retain, transship, or land no more than 720 metric tons. A 30-metric ton trip limit will be in effect until any of the following criteria are met:


(5) *Annual catch and trip limits for 2024.* (i) If the 2024 catch limit is between 525 and 720 metric tons, a 30-metric ton trip limit will be in effect until any of the following criteria are met:


(ii) If the 2024 catch limit is between 400 and 524 metric tons, a 20-metric ton trip limit will be in effect until any of the following criteria are met:


(iii) If the 2024 catch limit is between 297 and 399 metric tons, a 15-metric ton trip limit will be in effect until any of the following criteria are met:


(iv) If the 2024 catch limit is 296 metric tons or less, the trip limit will be 5 metric tons for the entire calendar year.




(6) *In-season actions for trip limits and closure of the fishery.* If NMFS determines that action to change a trip limit needs to be taken under paragraphs (g)(3) through (5) of this section, the revised trip limit will be effective upon the date provided in a notification of in-season action in accordance with paragraph (g)(7) of this section. Upon the effective date of an in-season action to change trip limits under paragraphs (g)(3) through (5), targeting, retaining on board, transshipping, or landing Pacific bluefin tuna in the Convention Area in violation of the in-season action shall be prohibited, with the exception that any Pacific bluefin tuna already on board a fishing vessel on the effective date of the notification of in-season action may be retained on board and landed or transshipped within 24 hours after the effective date of the notice, to the extent authorized by applicable laws and regulations. After NMFS determines that the annual catch limits under paragraphs (g)(3) through (5) are expected to be reached, NMFS will close the fishery effective upon the date provided in the notification in accordance with paragraph (g)(7). Upon the effective date in the notification, targeting, retaining on board, transshipping, or landing Pacific bluefin tuna in the Convention Area shall be prohibited through the end of the calendar year, with the exception that any Pacific bluefin tuna already on board a fishing vessel on the effective date of the notice may be retained on board and landed or transshipped within 14 days after the effective date published in the fishing closure notification, to the extent authorized by applicable laws and regulations.


(7) *Announcement and effective dates of in-season actions.* If in-season actions under paragraphs (g)(2) through (6) of this section are needed, NMFS will post a notice on the NMFS web page announcing the in-season action, including effective dates. NMFS will also send emails with notice of the in-season action to affected vessel owners. This action will also be published in the _Federal Register_ as soon as practicable. The in-season action will be effective upon the earlier of either receipt by email of such notice or publication in the _Federal Register_.




(8) *Reversal of in-season actions.* If an in-season action taken under paragraphs (g)(2) through (6) of this section is based on overestimate of actual catch, NMFS will reverse that action in the timeliest possible manner, provided NMFS finds that reversing that action is consistent with the management objectives for the affected species. The fishery will be subject to the change in trip limit or reopened effective on the date provided in the notice in accordance with paragraph (g)(7) of this section.


(9) *State of California fish landing receipts.* If landing Pacific bluefin tuna into the State of California, fish landing receipts must be submitted within 24 hours to the California Department of Fish and Wildlife in accordance with the requirements of applicable State regulations.











---

[N] [64 FR 44431, Aug. 16, 1999]




