# § 817.11   Signs and markers.

(a) *Specifications.* Signs and markers required under this part shall—


(1) Be posted, maintained, and removed by the person who conducts the underground mining activities;


(2) Be of a uniform design throughout the activities that can be easily seen and read;


(3) Be made of durable material; and


(4) Conform to local laws and regulations.


(b) *Duration of maintenance.* Signs and markers shall be maintained during all activities to which they pertain.


(c) *Mine and permit identification signs.* (1) Identification signs shall be displayed at each point of access from public roads to areas of surface operations and facilities on permit areas for underground mining activities.


(2) Signs will show the name, business address, and telephone number of the person who conducts underground mining activities and the identification number of the current regulatory program permit authorizing underground mining activities.


(3) Signs shall be retained and maintained until after the release of all bonds for the permit area.


(d) *Perimeter markers.* Each person who conducts underground mining activities shall clearly mark the perimeter of all areas affected by surface operations or facilities before beginning mining activities.


(e) *Buffer zone markers.* Buffer zones required by § 817.57 shall be clearly marked to prevent disturbance by surface operations and facilities.


(f) *Topsoil markers.* Where topsoil or other vegetation-supporting material is segregated and stockpiled as required under § 817.22, the stockpiled material shall be clearly marked.



---

[N] [44 FR 15422, Mar. 13, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 9809, Mar. 8, 1983; 48 FR 44781, Sept. 30, 1983; 73 FR 75884, Dec. 12, 2008; 79 FR 76232, Dec. 22, 2014; 81 FR 93418, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54999, Nov. 17, 2017]




