# § 5001.455   Periodic guarantee retention fee.

The Agency will collect a periodic guarantee retention fee from the lender for as long as the loan note guarantee is outstanding in accordance with the annual notice published in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with § 5001.10. Payment of the periodic guarantee retention fee is required to maintain the validity of the loan note guarantee. The lender may pass the fee on to the borrower but may not delay payment of the fee to the Agency while collecting the payment from the borrower. The fee rates may differ by program as published annually in a document in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with § 5001.10. The annual _Federal Register_ notification will include the frequency of payment for the fees.


(a) *Calculation.* The guarantee retention fee is calculated by multiplying the full outstanding principal guaranteed loan balance as of a date(s) as published in the annual _Federal Register_ notification, by the percentage of guarantee, by the fee rate as noted in the guaranteed loan conditional commitment.


(b) *Effective fee rate.* The effective guarantee retention fee rate that is published in a _Federal Register_ document in accordance with § 5001.10 at the time the guaranteed loan is obligated will be noted in the guarantee loan conditional commitment and the fee will remain in effect for the life of the loan note guarantee.


(c) *Payments.* The guarantee retention fee payment frequency and related due date provisions will be published in the annual _Federal Register_ notification.


(1) Guarantee retention fee payments not received within 60 days after their due date are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in cancellation of the loan note guarantee to the lender. The Agency will provide the lender 30 calendar days' written notice that the fee is delinquent before canceling the loan note guarantee. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in the loan note guarantee and assignment guarantee agreement, unless the holder took possession of an interest in the loan note guarantee knowing guarantee retention fees had not been paid.


(2) Until the loan note guarantee is canceled by the Agency, any delinquent periodic guarantee retention fee will bear interest at the promissory note rate.


(3) When the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan as prescribed in § 5001.511(c), the Agency will discontinue collection of the periodic guarantee retention fee.


(d) *Secondary market prohibition.* Lenders are prohibited from selling any portion of the guaranteed loan on the secondary market if there are unpaid periodic guarantee retention fees.




