# ยง 304.1   Terms defined.

(a) *Act* means the Hobby Protection Act (approved November 29, 1973; Pub. L. 93-167, 87 Stat. 686, (15 U.S.C. 2101 *et seq.*)).


(b) *Commerce* has the same meanings as such term has under the Federal Trade Commission Act.


(c) *Commission* means the Federal Trade Commission.


(d) *Imitation numismatic item* means an item which purports to be, but in fact is not, an original numismatic item or which is a reproduction, copy, or counterfeit of an original numismatic item. Such term includes an original numismatic item which has been altered or modified in such a manner that it could reasonably purport to be an original numismatic item other than the one which was altered or modified. The term shall not include any re-issue or re-strike of any original numismatic item by the United States or any foreign government.


(e) *Imitation political item* means an item which purports to be, but in fact is not, an original political item, or which is a reproduction, copy or counterfeit of an original item.


(f) *Original numismatic item* means anything which has been a part of a coinage or issue which has been used in exchange or has been used to commemorate a person, object, place, or event. Such term includes coins, tokens, paper money, and commemorative medals.


(g) *Original political item* means any political button, poster, literature, sticker, or any advertisement produced for use in any political cause.


(h) *Person* means any individual, group, association, partnership, or any other business entity.


(i) *Regulations* means any or all regulations prescribed by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to the Act.


(j) *United States* means the States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


(k) *Diameter of a reproduction* means the length of the longest possible straight line connecting two points on the perimeter of the reproduction.



---

[N] [40 FR 5496, Feb. 6, 1975, as amended at 53 FR 38942, Oct. 4, 1988]




