# § 49.167   Definitions.

For the purposes of this program, the definitions in part 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A of this chapter apply, unless otherwise stated. The following definitions also apply to this program:


*Allowable emissions* means “allowable emissions” as defined in part 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A.11 of this chapter, except that the allowable emissions for any emissions unit are calculated considering any emission limitations that are enforceable as a practical matter on the emissions unit's potential to emit.


*Enforceable as a practical matter* means that an emission limitation or other standard is both legally and practicably enforceable as follows:


(1) An emission limitation or other standard is legally enforceable if the reviewing authority has the right to enforce it.


(2) Practical enforceability for an emission limitation or for other standards (design standards, equipment standards, work practices, operational standards, pollution prevention techniques) in a permit for a source is achieved if the permit's provisions specify:


(i) A limitation or standard and the emissions units or activities at the source subject to the limitation or standard;


(ii) The time period for the limitation or standard (e.g., hourly, daily, monthly and/or annual limits such as rolling annual limits) and


(iii) The method to determine compliance, including appropriate monitoring, recordkeeping, reporting and testing.


(3) For rules and general permits that apply to categories of sources, practical enforceability additionally requires that the provisions:


(i) Identify the types or categories of sources that are covered by the rule or general permit;


(ii) Where coverage is optional, provide for notice to the reviewing authority of the source's election to be covered by the rule or general permit and


(iii) Specify the enforcement consequences relevant to the rule or general permit.


*Environmental Appeals Board* means the Board within the EPA described in § 1.25(e) of this chapter.


*Indian country,* as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151, means the following as applied to this program:


(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and including rights-of-way running through the reservation; 
1

(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof and whether within or without the limits of a state and


(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same.


*Indian governing body* means the governing body of any Tribe, band or group of Indians subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and recognized by the United States as possessing power of self-government.


(4) The geographic scope of applicability of this rule is as specified in § 49.166(c)(1).


*Reviewing authority* means the Administrator or an Indian Tribe in cases where a Tribal agency is assisting EPA with administration of the program through a delegation under § 49.173.


*Synthetic minor HAP source* means a source that otherwise has the potential to emit HAPs in amounts that are at or above those for major sources of HAP in § 63.2 of this chapter, but that has taken a restriction such that its potential to emit is less than such amounts for major sources. Such restrictions must be enforceable as a practical matter.


*Synthetic minor source* means a source that otherwise has the potential to emit regulated NSR pollutants in amounts that are at or above those for major sources in Appendix S, but that has taken a restriction such that its potential to emit is less than such amounts for major sources. Such restrictions must be enforceable as a practical matter.



---

[N] [76 FR 38802, July 1, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 35981, June 3, 2016]




