# § 982.352   Eligible housing.

(a) *Ineligible housing.* The following types of housing may not be assisted by a PHA in the tenant-based programs: 


(1) A public housing or Indian housing unit; 


(2) A unit receiving project-based assistance under section 8 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f); 


(3) Nursing homes, board and care homes, or facilities providing continual psychiatric, medical, or nursing services; 


(4) College or other school dormitories; 


(5) Units on the grounds of penal, reformatory, medical, mental, and similar public or private institutions; or 


(6) A unit occupied by its owner or by a person with any interest in the unit. 


(7) For provisions on PHA disapproval of an owner, see § 982.306. 




(b) *PHA-owned housing.* (1) PHA-owned units, as defined in § 982.4, may be assisted under the tenant-based program only if all the following conditions are satisfied:


(i) The PHA must inform the family, both orally and in writing, that the family has the right to select any eligible unit available for lease.


(ii) A PHA-owned unit is freely selected by the family, without PHA pressure or steering.


(iii) The unit selected by the family is not ineligible housing.


(iv) During assisted occupancy, the family may not benefit from any form of housing subsidy that is prohibited under paragraph (c) of this section.


(v)(A) The PHA must obtain the services of an independent entity, as defined in § 982.4, to perform the following PHA functions as required under the program rule:


(*1*) To determine rent reasonableness in accordance with § 982.507. The independent entity shall communicate the rent reasonableness determination to the family and the PHA.


(*2*) To assist the family in negotiating the rent to owner in accordance with § 982.506.


(*3*) To inspect the unit for compliance with HQS in accordance with §§ 982.305(a) and 982.405. The independent entity shall communicate the results of each such inspection to the family and the PHA.


(B) The PHA may compensate the independent entity from PHA administrative fees (including fees credited to the administrative fee reserve) for the services performed by the independent entity. The PHA may not use other program receipts to compensate the independent entity for such services. The PHA and the independent entity may not charge the family any fee or charge for the services provided by the independent entity.


(2) [Reserved]




(c) *Prohibition against other housing subsidy.* A family may not receive the benefit of tenant-based assistance while receiving the benefit of any of the following forms of other housing subsidy, for the same unit or for a different unit: 


(1) Public or Indian housing assistance; 


(2) Other Section 8 assistance (including other tenant-based assistance); 


(3) Assistance under former Section 23 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (before amendment by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974); 


(4) Section 101 rent supplements; 


(5) Section 236 rental assistance payments; 


(6) Tenant-based assistance under the HOME Program; 


(7) Rental assistance payments under Section 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (a program of the Rural Development Administration);


(8) Any local or State rent subsidy; 


(9) Section 202 supportive housing for the elderly;


(10) Section 811 supportive housing for persons with disabilities;


(11) Section 202 projects for non-elderly persons with disabilities (Section 162 assistance); or


(12) Any other duplicative federal, State, or local housing subsidy, as determined by HUD. For this purpose, “housing subsidy” does not include the housing component of a welfare payment, a social security payment received by the family, or a rent reduction because of a tax credit. 



---

[N] [60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995; 63 FR 23860, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 13057, Mar. 16, 1999; 64 FR 26645, May 14, 1999; 65 FR 55162, Sept. 12, 2000; 88 FR 30503, May 11, 2023; 89 FR 38296, May 7, 2024]




