# § 403.744   Condition of participation: Life safety from fire.

(a) *General.* An RNHCI must meet the following conditions:


(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section—


(i) The RNHCI must meet the applicable provisions and must proceed in accordance with the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-1, TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, and TIA 12-4).


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, corridor doors and doors to rooms containing flammable or combustible materials must be provided with positive latching hardware. Roller latches are prohibited on such doors.


(2) The RNHCI must have written fire control plans that contain provisions for prompt reporting of fires; extinguishing fires; protection of patients, staff, and the public; evacuation; and cooperation with fire fighting authorities.


(3) The RNHCI must maintain written evidence of regular inspection and approval by State or local fire control agencies.


(4) The RNHCI may place alcohol-based hand rub dispensers in its facility if the dispensers are installed in a manner that adequately protects against inappropriate access.


(5) When a sprinkler system is shut down for more than 10 hours the RHNCI must:


(i) Evacuate the building or portion of the building affected by the system outage until the system is back in service, or


(ii) Establish a fire watch until the system is back in service.


(6) Building must have an outside window or outside door in every sleeping room, and for any building constructed after July 5, 2016 the sill height must not exceed 36 inches above the floor. Windows in atrium walls are considered outside windows for the purposes of this requirement.


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) In consideration of a recommendation by the State survey agency or Accrediting Organization, or at the discretion of the Secretary, may waive, for periods deemed appropriate, specific provisions of the Life Safety Code, which would result in unreasonable hardship upon a RNHCI facility, but only if the waiver will not adversely affect the health and safety of the patients.


(2) If CMS finds that the fire and safety code imposed by State law adequately protects patients in the institution, the provisions of the Life Safety Code required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply in that State.


(c) The standards incorporated by reference in this section are approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect a copy at the CMS Information Resource Center, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* If any changes in this edition of the Code are incorporated by reference, CMS will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ to announce the changes.


(1) National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169, *www.nfpa.org*, 1.617.770.3000.


(i) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2012 edition, issued August 11, 2011;


(ii) TIA 12-1 to NFPA 101, issued August 11, 2011.


(iii) TIA 12-2 to NFPA 101, issued October 30, 2012.


(iv) TIA 12-3 to NFPA 101, issued October 22, 2013.


(v) TIA 12-4 to NFPA 101, issued October 22, 2013.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [64 FR 67047, Nov. 30, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 1385, Jan. 10, 2003; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 69 FR 49240, Aug. 11, 2004; 70 FR 15237, Mar. 25, 2005; 70 FR 71007, Nov. 25, 2005; 71 FR 55339, Sept. 22, 2006; 81 FR 26896, May 4, 2016]




