# § 28.11   Filing a charge with the Office of General Counsel.

(a) *Who may file.* (1) Any person claiming to be affected adversely by GAO action or inaction which is within the Board's jurisdiction under Subchapter IV of Chapter 7 of Title 31, United States Code, may file a charge with the General Counsel. 


(2) Non-EEO class actions. One or more persons may file a charge as representative of a class in any matter within the Board's jurisdiction. See § 28.97 for EEO class actions. 


(3) Unfair labor practice proceedings. Any person may file a charge alleging that the GAO or a labor organization has engaged or is engaging in an unfair labor practice. (The types of allegations which may be included in an unfair labor practice charge are discussed at § 28.121(a)). 


(b) *When to file.* (1) Charges relating to adverse and performance-based actions must be filed within 30 days after the effective date of the action. 


(2) Charges relating to other personnel actions must be filed within 30 days after the effective date of the action or 30 days after the charging party knew or should have known of the action.


(3) Charges which include an allegation of prohibited discrimination shall be filed in accordance with the special rules set forth in § 28.98.


(4) Charges relating to continuing violations may be filed at any time.


(c) *How to file.* Charges may be filed with the Office of General Counsel by personal delivery (including commercial carrier) or by mail.


(1) A charge may be filed by personal delivery at the Office of General Counsel, Personnel Appeals Board, Room 1562, 441 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20548.


(2) A charge may be filed by mail addressed to the Office of General Counsel, Personnel Appeals Board, Room 1562, 441 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20548. When filed by mail, the postmark shall be the date of filing for all submissions to the Office of General Counsel.


(d) *What to file.* The charging party should include in any charge the following information:


(1) Name of the charging party or a clear description of the group or class of persons on whose behalf the charge is being filed;


(2) The names and titles of persons, if any, responsible for actions the charging party wishes to have the Office of General Counsel investigate;


(3) The actions complained about, including dates, reasons given, and internal appeals taken;


(4) The charging party's reasons for believing the actions to be improper;


(5) Remedies sought by the charging party;


(6) Name and address of the representative, if any, who will act for the charging party in any further stages of the matter; and


(7) Signature of the charging party or the charging party's representative.


(e) The General Counsel shall not represent a petitioner when the only issue is attorney fees. When attorney fees are the only issue raised in a charge to the Office of General Counsel, the General Counsel shall transmit the charge to the Board for processing under §§ 28.18 through 28.88 as a petition.



---

[N] [58 FR 61992, Nov. 23, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 59106, Nov. 16, 1994; 61 FR 36810, July 15, 1996; 68 FR 69298, Dec. 12, 2003; 77 FR 15233, Mar. 15, 2012]




