# ยง 866.2680   

(a) *Identification.* A *Streptococcus spp.* nucleic acid-based assay is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic device intended to simultaneously detect and identify various *Streptococcus spp.* nucleic acids extracted directly from clinical specimens. The device detects specific nucleic acid sequences for organism identification. The identification aids in the diagnosis of diseases caused by bacteria belonging to the genus *Streptococcus* and provides epidemiological information on these diseases. Pathogenic streptococci are associated with infections, such as sore throat, impetigo (an infection characterized by small pustules on the skin), urinary tract infections, rheumatic fever, and kidney disease.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed device description documentation, including the device components, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and a detailed explanation of the methodology including primer/probe sequence, design, and rationale for sequence selection.


(2) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from the following analytical and clinical performance studies: Analytical sensitivity (Limit of Detection), reactivity, inclusivity, precision, reproducibility, interference, cross reactivity, carry-over, and cross contamination.


(3) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from a clinical study. The study, performed on a study population consistent with the intended use population, must compare the device performance to results obtained from well-accepted reference methods.


(4) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation for device software, including, but not limited to, software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software.


(5) Premarket notification submissions must include database implementation methodology, construction parameters, and quality assurance protocols, as appropriate.


(6) The device labeling must include limitations regarding the need for culture confirmation of negative specimens, as appropriate.


(7) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and acceptance criteria must be included in the device's 21 CFR 809.10(b)(9) compliant labeling.


(8) Premarket notification submissions must include details on an end user device training program that will be offered while marketing the device, as appropriate.



---

[N] [82 FR 50074, Oct. 30, 2017]




