# ยง 5.107   Transmitter control requirements.

Each licensee shall be responsible for maintaining control of the transmitter authorized under its station authorization, including the ability to terminate transmissions should interference occur.


(a) *Conventional experimental radio stations.* The licensee shall ensure that transmissions are in conformance with the operating characteristics prescribed in the station authorization and that the station is operated only by persons duly authorized by the licensee.


(b) *Program experimental radio stations.* The licensee shall ensure that transmissions are in conformance with the requirements in subpart E of this part and that the station is operated only by persons duly authorized by the licensee.


(c) *Medical testing experimental radio stations.* The licensee shall ensure that transmissions are in conformance with the requirements in subpart F of this part and that the station is operated only by persons duly authorized by the licensee.


(d) *Compliance testing experimental radio stations.* The licensee shall ensure that transmissions are in conformance with the requirements in subpart G of this part and that the station is operated only by persons duly authorized by the licensee.


(e) *Broadcast experimental stations.* Except where unattended operation is specifically permitted, the licensee of each station authorized under the provisions of this part shall designate a person or persons to activate and control its transmitter. At the discretion of the station licensee, persons so designated may be employed for other duties and for operation of other transmitting stations if such other duties will not interfere with the proper operation of the station transmission systems.


(f) *Spectrum Horizons experimental radio licenses.* The licensee shall ensure that transmissions are in conformance with the requirements in subpart I of this part and that the station is operated only by persons duly authorized by the licensee.



---

[N] [78 FR 25162, Apr. 29, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 25690, June 4, 2019]




