# ยง 16.76   Exemption of Justice Management Division.

(a) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d): 


(1) Controlled Substances Act Nonpublic Records (JUSTICE/JMD-002).


(b) Exemption from subsection (d) is justified for the following reasons:


(1) Access to and use of the nonpublic records maintained in this system are restricted by law. Section 3607(b) of Title 18 U.S.C. (enacted as part of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, Chapter II) provides that the sole purpose of these records shall be for use by the courts in determining whether a person found guilty of violating section 404 of the Controlled Substances Act qualifies:


(i) For the disposition available under 18 U.S.C. 3607(a) to persons with no prior conviction under a Federal or State law relating to controlled substances, or


(ii) For an order, under 18 U.S.C. 3607(c), expunging all official records (except the nonpublic records to be retained by the Department of Justice) of the arrest and any subsequent criminal proceedings relating to the offense.


(2) Information in this system consists of arrest records, including those of co-defendants. The records include reports of informants and investigations. Therefore, access could disclose investigative techniques, reveal the identity of confidential sources, and invade the privacy of third parties.


(c) The following system of records is exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g): Federal Bureau of Investigation Whistleblower Case Files (Justice/JMD-023). These exemptions apply only to the extent that information in a record contained within this system is subject to exemptions pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k).


(d) Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:


(1) *Subsection (c)(3).* To provide the subject with an accounting of disclosures of records in this system could inform that individual of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or counterintelligence investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or counterintelligence efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or counterintelligence measures.


(2) *Subsection (c)(4).* This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d).


(3) *Subsection (d)(1).* Information within this record system could relate to official federal investigations and matters of law enforcement. Individual access to these records could compromise ongoing investigations, reveal confidential informants and/or sensitive investigative techniques used in particular investigations, or constitute unwarranted invasions of the personal privacy of third parties who are involved in a certain investigation. Disclosure may also reveal information relating to actual or potential law enforcement investigations. Disclosure of classified national security information would cause damage to the national security of the United States.


(4) *Subsection (d)(2).* Amendment of these records could interfere with ongoing criminal or civil law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.


(5) *Subsections (d)(3) and (4).* These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and (2).


(6) *Subsection (e)(1).* It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory information contained in this system is accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement and counterintelligence, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads.


(7) *Subsection (e)(2).* To collect information from the subject individual could serve to notify the subject individual that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigations.


(8) *Subsection (e)(3).* To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal investigation and compromise investigative efforts.


(9) *Subsection (e)(5).* It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory information contained in this system is accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement and counterintelligence, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads.


(10) *Subsection (e)(8).* To serve notice could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts.


(11) *Subsection (g).* This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.


(e) The following system of records is exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1)-(4); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f): Department of Justice Security Monitoring and Analytics Service Records (JUSTICE/JMD-026). The exemptions in this paragraph (e) apply only to the extent that information in this system of records is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). Where DOJ determines compliance would not appear to interfere with or adversely affect the purpose of this system of records to ensure that the Department can track information system access and implement information security protections commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm that could result from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of DOJ information and information systems, the applicable exemption may be waived by the DOJ in its sole discretion.


(f) Exemptions from the particular subsections listed in paragraph (e) of this section are justified for the following reasons:


(1) From subsection (c)(3), the requirement that an accounting be made available to the named subject of a record, because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d). Also, because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosures of records concerning the subject would specifically reveal investigative interests in the records by the DOJ, external Federal agency subscribers, or other entities that are recipients of the disclosures. Revealing this information could compromise sensitive information or interfere with the overall law enforcement process by revealing a pending sensitive cybersecurity investigation. Revealing this information could also permit the record subject to obtain valuable insight concerning the information obtained during any investigation and to take measures to impede the investigation, *e.g.,* destroy evidence or alter techniques to evade discovery.


(2) From subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of certain law enforcement and sensitive records, compliance of which could alert the subject of an authorized law enforcement activity about that particular activity and the interest of the DOJ, external Federal agency subscribers, and/or other entities that are recipients of the disclosure. Providing access could compromise sensitive information or reveal sensitive cybersecurity investigative techniques; provide information that would allow a subject to avoid detection; or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel or confidential sources.


(3) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to know in advance what information is relevant and necessary for law enforcement purposes. The relevance and utility of certain information that may have a nexus to cybersecurity threats may not always be fully evident until and unless it is vetted and matched with other information lawfully maintained by the DOJ, external Federal agency subscribers, or other entities.


(4) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the extent that this subsection is interpreted to require more detail regarding the record sources in this system of records than has been published in the _Federal Register._ Should the subsection be so interpreted, exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the sources of law enforcement information.



---

[N] [Order No. 645-76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, as amended by Order No. 688-77, 42 FR 9999, Feb. 18, 1977; Order No. 899-80, 45 FR 43703, June 30, 1980; Order No. 6-86, 51 FR 15476, Apr. 24, 1986; Order No. 246-2001, 66 FR 54663, Oct. 30, 2001; Order No. 297-2002, 67 FR 70163, Nov. 21, 2002; Order No. 019-2005, 71 FR 17, Jan. 3, 2006; CPCLO Order No. 011-2021, 86 FR 61691, Nov. 8, 2021] 




