# ยง 1709.124   Grant award procedures.

(a) *Notification of applicants.* The Agency will notify all applicants in writing whether they have been selected for a grant award. Applicants that have been selected as finalists for a competitive grant award will be notified in writing of their selection and advised that the Agency may request additional information in order to complete environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, and to meet other pre-award conditions.


(b) *Letter of conditions.* The Agency will notify each applicant selected as a finalist in writing setting out the amount of grant funds and the terms and conditions under which the grant will be made and requesting that the applicant indicate in writing its intent to accept these conditions.


(c) *Applicant's intent to meet conditions.* Upon reviewing the conditions and requirements in the letter of conditions, the selected applicant must notify the agency in writing within the time period indicated, of its acceptance of the conditions, or if the proposed certain conditions cannot be met, the applicant must so advise the Agency and may propose alternate conditions. The Agency must concur with any changes proposed to the letter of conditions by the applicant before the application will be further processed.


(d) *Grant agreement.* The Agency and the grantee must sign a grant agreement acceptable to the Agency prior to the advance of funds.



---

[N] [70 FR 5351, Feb. 2, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 11026, Mar. 2, 2016]




