# § 721.10156   Single-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting*—(1) The chemical substance identified generically as single-walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-08-328) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the chemical substance after it has been completely reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5) (National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved air-purifying, tightfitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 filters), (a)(6)(i), and (c).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [75 FR 56889, Sept. 17, 2010]




