# § 1150.33   Information to be contained in notice—transactions that involve creation of Class III carriers.

(a) The full name and address of the applicant;


(b) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the applicant who should receive correspondence;


(c) A statement that an agreement has been reached or details about when an agreement will be reached;


(d) The operator of the property;


(e) A brief summary of the proposed transaction, including:


(1) The name and address of the railroad transferring the subject property,


(2) The proposed time schedule for consummation of the transaction,


(3) The mile-posts of the subject property, including any branch lines, and


(4) The total route miles being acquired;


(f) A map that clearly indicates the area to be served, including origins, termini, stations, cities, counties, and States; and


(g) A certificate that applicant's projected revenues do not exceed those that would qualify it as a Class III carrier.


(h) *Interchange Commitments.* (1) The filing party must certify whether or not a proposed acquisition or operation of a rail line involves a provision or agreement that may limit future interchange with a third-party connecting carrier, whether by outright prohibition, per-car penalty, adjustment in the purchase price or rental, positive economic inducement, or other means (“interchange commitment”). If such a provision exists, the following additional information must be provided (the information in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii), (iv), (vii) of this section may be filed with the Board under 49 CFR 1104.14(a) and will be kept confidential without need for the filing of an accompanying motion for a protective order under 49 CFR 1104.14(b)):


(i) The existence of that provision or agreement and identification of the affected interchange points; and


(ii) A confidential, complete version of the document(s) containing or addressing that provision or agreement;


(iii) A list of shippers that currently use or have used the line in question within the last two years;


(iv) The aggregate number of carloads those shippers specified in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section originated or terminated (confidential);


(v) A certification that the filing party has provided notice of the proposed transaction and interchange commitment to the shippers identified in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section;


(vi) A list of third party railroads that could physically interchange with the line sought to be acquired or leased;


(vii) An estimate of the difference between the sale or lease price with and without the interchange commitment (confidential);


(viii) A change in the case caption so that the existence of an interchange commitment is apparent from the case title.


(2) To obtain information about an interchange commitment for use in a proceeding before the Board, a shipper or other affected party may be granted access to the confidential documents filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) of this section by filing, and serving upon the petitioner, a “Motion for Access to Confidential Documents,” containing:


(i) An explanation of the party's need for the information; and


(ii) An appropriate draft protective order and confidentiality undertaking(s) that will ensure that the documents are kept confidential.


(3) *Deadlines.* (i) Replies to a Motion for Access are due within 5 days after the motion is filed.


(ii) The Board will rule on a Motion for Access within 30 days after the motion is filed.


(iii) Parties must produce the relevant documents within 5 days of receipt of a Board approved, signed confidentiality agreement.



---

[N] [51 FR 2504, Jan. 17, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 25207, July 11, 1986; 53 FR 4626, Feb. 17, 1988; 53 FR 5982, Feb. 29, 1988; 56 FR 36111, July 31, 1991; 73 FR 31034, May 30, 2008; 78 FR 54590, Sept. 5, 2013] 




