# § 80.25   Notification of safety standards.

(a) Each owner, operator, agent, or other person, selling passage for a coastwise or an international voyage embarking passengers at a United States port shall give to a prospective passenger, in writing, at the time of or before passage is booked, separately from any promotional literature or advertising used, a document containing the following information for each vessel concerned—


(1) The name of the vessel;


(2) The country of registry;


(3) One of the following statements as appropriate:


(i) This vessel complies with international safety standards, except the 1966 fire safety standards.


(ii) This vessel complies with international safety standards developed prior to 1960. There is (*or,* is not) an automatic sprinkler system fitted in the passenger living and public spaces. The hull, decks, deckhouses, structural bulkheads, and internal partitions are (*or,* are not) composed of combustible materials.


(iii) This vessel does not comply with any international safety standard. There is (*or,* is not) an automatic sprinkler system fitted in the passenger living and public spaces. The hull, decks, deckhouses, structural bulkheads, and internal partitions are (*or,* are not) composed of combustible materials.


(b) The information required in paragraph (a) of this section must be printed in a type no smaller than six points, American point system.


(c) The information required in paragraph (a) of this section must be headed—


(1) “SAFETY INFORMATION”;


(2) With each letter in the heading capitalized; and


(3) In boldfaced type of a size equal to the size of the text required in paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [CGD 72-187R, 38 FR 9081, Apr. 10, 1973, as amended by CGD 79-180, 48 FR 7456, Feb. 22, 1983]




