# ยง 124.1002   Reviews and protests of SDB status.

(a) SBA may initiate the review of SDB status on any firm that has represented itself to be an SDB on a prime contract (for goaling purposes or otherwise) or subcontract to a federal prime contract whenever SBA receives credible information calling into question the SDB status of the firm.


(b) Requests for an SBA review of SDB status may be forwarded to the Small Business Administration, Associate Administrator for Business Development (AA/BD), 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416.


(c) The contracting officer or the SBA may protest the SDB status of a proposed subcontractor or subcontract awardee. Other interested parties may submit information to the contracting officer or the SBA in an effort to persuade the contracting officer or the SBA to initiate a protest. Such protests, in order to be considered timely, must be submitted to the SBA prior to completion of performance by the intended subcontractor.


(1) SBA will request relevant information from the protested concern pertaining to: (i) the social and economic disadvantage of the individual(s) claiming to own and control the protested concern; (ii) the ownership and control of the protested concern; and (iii) the size of the protested concern.


(2) The concern whose disadvantaged status is under consideration has the burden of establishing that it qualifies as an SDB.


(3) Where SBA requests specific information and the concern does not submit it, SBA may draw adverse inferences against the concern.


(4) SBA will base its SDB determination upon the record, including reasonable inferences from the record, and will state in writing the basis for its findings and conclusions.


(d) Where SBA determines that a subcontractor does not qualify as an SDB, the prime contractor must not include subcontracts to that subcontractor as subcontracts to an SDB in its subcontracting reports, starting from the time that the protest was decided.



---

[N] [88 FR 26209, Apr. 27, 2023]




