# ยง 184.1027   Mixed carbohydrase and protease enzyme product.

(a) Mixed carbohydrase and protease enzyme product is an enzyme preparation that includes carbohydrase and protease activity. It is obtained from the culture filtrate resulting from a pure culture fermentation of a nonpathogenic strain of *B. licheniformis.*

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 107, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an enzyme, as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(9) of this chapter, to hydrolyze proteins or carbohydrates.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: alcoholic beverages, as defined in ยง 170.3(n)(2) of this chapter, candy, nutritive sweeteners, and protein hydrolyzates.



---

[N] [48 FR 240, Jan. 4, 1983]




