# § 72.248   Safety analysis report updating.

(a) Each certificate holder for a spent fuel storage cask design shall update periodically, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the final safety analysis report (FSAR) to assure that the information included in the report contains the latest information developed.


(1) Each certificate holder shall submit an original FSAR to the Commission, in accordance with § 72.4, within 90 days after the spent fuel storage cask design has been approved pursuant to § 72.238.


(2) The original FSAR shall be based on the safety analysis report submitted with the application and reflect any changes and applicant commitments developed during the cask design review process. The original FSAR shall be updated to reflect any changes to requirements contained in the issued Certificate of Compliance (CoC).


(b) Each update shall contain all the changes necessary to reflect information and analyses submitted to the Commission by the certificate holder or prepared by the certificate holder pursuant to Commission requirement since the submission of the original FSAR or, as appropriate, the last update to the FSAR under this section. The update shall include the effects 
1 of:


(1) All changes made in the spent fuel storage cask design or procedures as described in the FSAR;


(2) All safety analyses and evaluations performed by the certificate holder either in support of approved CoC amendments, or in support of conclusions that changes did not require a CoC amendment in accordance with § 72.48; and


(3) All analyses of new safety issues performed by or on behalf of the certificate holder at Commission request. The information shall be appropriately located within the updated FSAR.


(c)(1) The update of the FSAR must be filed in accordance with § 72.4. If the update is filed on paper, then it should be filed on a page-replacement basis; if filed electronically, it should be filed on a full replacement basis. See Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the Commission at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.*

(2) A paper update filed on a page-replacement basis must include a list that identifies the current pages of the FSAR following page replacement. If the update is filed electronically on a full replacement basis, it must include a list of changed pages. 


(3) Each replacement page shall include both a change indicator for the area changed, e.g., a bold line vertically drawn in the margin adjacent to the portion actually changed, and a page change identification (date of change or change number or both);


(4) The update shall include:


(i) A certification by a duly authorized officer of the certificate holder that either the information accurately presents changes made since the previous submittal, or that no such changes were made; and


(ii) An identification of changes made by the certificate holder under the provisions of § 72.48, but not previously submitted to the Commission;


(5) The update shall reflect all changes implemented up to a maximum of 6 months prior to the date of filing;


(6) Updates shall be filed every 24 months from the date of issuance of the CoC; and


(7) The certificate holder shall provide a copy of the updated FSAR to each general and specific licensee using its cask design.


(d) The updated FSAR shall be retained by the certificate holder until the Commission terminates the certificate.


(e) A certificate holder who permanently ceases operation, shall provide the updated FSAR to the new certificate holder or to the Commission, as appropriate, in accordance with § 72.234(d)(3).



---

[N] [64 FR 53617, Oct. 4, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009]




