# § 29.479   Level landing conditions.

(a) *Attitudes.* Under each of the loading conditions prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, the rotorcraft is assumed to be in each of the following level landing attitudes: 


(1) An attitude in which each wheel contacts the ground simultaneously. 


(2) An attitude in which the aft wheels contact the ground with the forward wheels just clear of the ground. 


(b) *Loading conditions.* The rotorcraft must be designed for the following landing loading conditions: 


(1) Vertical loads applied under § 29.471. 


(2) The loads resulting from a combination of the loads applied under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with drag loads at each wheel of not less than 25 percent of the vertical load at that wheel. 


(3) The vertical load at the instant of peak drag load combined with a drag component simulating the forces required to accelerate the wheel rolling assembly up to the specified ground speed, with—


(i) The ground speed for determination of the spin-up loads being at least 75 percent of the optimum forward flight speed for minimum rate of descent in autorotation; and 


(ii) The loading conditions of paragraph (b) applied to the landing gear and its attaching structure only. 


(4) If there are two wheels forward, a distribution of the loads applied to those wheels under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section in a ratio of 40:60. 


(c) *Pitching moments.* Pitching moments are assumed to be resisted by—


(1) In the case of the attitude in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the forward landing gear; and 


(2) In the case of the attitude in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the angular inertia forces. 




