# ยง 73.275   Dried algae meal.

(a) *Identity.* The color additive dried algae meal is a dried mixture of algae cells (genus *Spongiococcum,* separated from its culture broth), molasses, cornsteep liquor, and a maximum of 0.3 percent ethoxyquin. The algae cells are produced by suitable fermentation, under controlled conditions, from a pure culture of the genus *Spongiococcum.*

(b) *Uses and restrictions.* The color additive dried algae meal may be safely used in chicken feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(1) The color additive is used to enhance the yellow color of chicken skin and eggs.


(2) The quantity of the color additive incorporated in the feed is such that the finished feed:


(i) Is supplemented sufficiently with xanthophyll and associated carotenoids so as to accomplish the intended effect described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and


(ii) Meets the tolerance limitation for ethoxyquin in animal feed prescribed in ยง 573.380 of this chapter.


(c) *Labeling.* The label of the color additives and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear in addition to the information required by ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(1) A statement of the concentrations of xanthophyll and ethoxyquin contained therein.


(2) Adequate directions to provide a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.




