# ยง 26.41   Definitions.

*Affects (or Affected)* means structure has been physically repaired, altered, or modified, or the structural loads acting on the structure have been increased or redistributed.


*Baseline structure* means structure that is designed under the original type certificate or amended type certificate for that airplane model.


*Damage Tolerance Evaluation (DTE)* means a process that leads to a determination of maintenance actions necessary to detect or preclude fatigue cracking that could contribute to a catastrophic failure. As applied to repairs and alterations, a DTE includes the evaluation both of the repair or alteration and of the fatigue critical structure affected by the repair or alteration.


*Damage Tolerance Inspection (DTI)* means the inspection developed as a result of a DTE. A DTI includes the areas to be inspected, the inspection method, the inspection procedures, including acceptance and rejection criteria, the threshold, and any repeat intervals associated with those inspections. The DTI may specify a time limit when a repair or alteration needs to be replaced or modified. If the DTE concludes that DT-based supplemental structural inspections are not necessary, the DTI contains a statement to that effect.


*DT data* mean DTE documentation and the DTI.


*DTE documentation* means data that identify the evaluated fatigue critical structure, the basic assumptions applied in a DTE, and the results of a DTE.


*Fatigue critical structure* means airplane structure that is susceptible to fatigue cracking that could contribute to a catastrophic failure, as determined in accordance with ยง 25.571 of this chapter. Fatigue critical structure includes structure, which, if repaired or altered, could be susceptible to fatigue cracking and contribute to a catastrophic failure. Such structure may be part of the baseline structure or part of an alteration.


*Implementation schedule* consists of documentation that establishes the timing for accomplishing the necessary actions for developing DT data for repairs and alterations, and for incorporating those data into an operator's continuing airworthiness maintenance program. The documentation must identify times when actions must be taken as specific numbers of airplane flight hours, flight cycles, or both.


*Published repair data* mean instructions for accomplishing repairs, which are published for general use in structural repair manuals and service bulletins (or equivalent types of documents).




