# § 135.4   Applicability of rules for eligible on-demand operations.

(a) An “eligible on-demand operation” is an on-demand operation conducted under this part that meets the following requirements: 


(1) *Two-pilot crew.* The flightcrew must consist of at least two qualified pilots employed or contracted by the certificate holder. 


(2) *Flight crew experience.* The crewmembers must have met the applicable requirements of part 61 of this chapter and have the following experience and ratings: 


(i) Total flight time for all pilots: 


(A) Pilot in command—A minimum of 1,500 hours. 


(B) Second in command—A minimum of 500 hours. 


(ii) For multi-engine turbine-powered fixed-wing and powered-lift aircraft, the following FAA certification and ratings requirements: 


(A) Pilot in command—Airline transport pilot and applicable type ratings. 


(B) Second in command—Commercial pilot and instrument ratings. 


(iii) For all other aircraft, the following FAA certification and rating requirements: 


(A) Pilot in command—Commercial pilot and instrument ratings. 


(B) Second in command—Commercial pilot and instrument ratings. 


(3) *Pilot operating limitations.* If the second in command of a fixed-wing aircraft has fewer than 100 hours of flight time as second in command flying in the aircraft make and model and, if a type rating is required, in the type aircraft being flown, and the pilot in command is not an appropriately qualified check pilot, the pilot in command shall make all takeoffs and landings in any of the following situations: 


(i) Landings at the destination airport when a Destination Airport Analysis is required by § 135.385(f); and 


(ii) In any of the following conditions:


(A) The prevailing visibility for the airport is at or below 
3/4 mile. 


(B) The runway visual range for the runway to be used is at or below 4,000 feet. 


(C) The runway to be used has water, snow, slush, ice, or similar contamination that may adversely affect aircraft performance. 


(D) The braking action on the runway to be used is reported to be less than “good.” 


(E) The crosswind component for the runway to be used is in excess of 15 knots. 


(F) Windshear is reported in the vicinity of the airport. 


(G) Any other condition in which the pilot in command determines it to be prudent to exercise the pilot in command's authority. 


(4) *Crew pairing.* Either the pilot in command or the second in command must have at least 75 hours of flight time in that aircraft make or model and, if a type rating is required, for that type aircraft, either as pilot in command or second in command. 


(b) The Administrator may authorize deviations from paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (a)(4) of this section if the responsible Flight Standards office that issued the certificate holder's operations specifications finds that the crewmember has comparable experience, and can effectively perform the functions associated with the position in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The Administrator may, at any time, terminate any grant of deviation authority issued under this paragraph. Grants of deviation under this paragraph may be granted after consideration of the size and scope of the operation, the qualifications of the intended personnel and the following circumstances: 


(1) A newly authorized certificate holder does not employ any pilots who meet the minimum requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (a)(4) of this section. 


(2) An existing certificate holder adds to its fleet a new category and class aircraft not used before in its operation. 


(3) An existing certificate holder establishes a new base to which it assigns pilots who will be required to become qualified on the aircraft operated from that base. 


(c) An eligible on-demand operation may comply with alternative requirements specified in §§ 135.225(b), 135.385(f), and 135.387(b) instead of the requirements that apply to other on-demand operations.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2001-10047, 68 FR 54585, Sept. 17, 2003, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 135-139, 83 FR 9175, Mar. 5, 2018]




