# ยง 2805.15   What rights does the United States retain?

The United States retains and may exercise any rights the grant does not expressly convey to you. These include BLM's right to:


(a) Access the lands and enter the facilities described in the authorization. The BLM will give you reasonable notice before it enters any facility on the right-of-way;




(b) Require common use of your right-of-way, including facilities (see ยง 2805.14(b)), subsurface, and air space, and authorize use of the right-of-way for compatible uses.

You may not charge for the use of the lands made subject to such additional right-of-way grants;


(c) Retain ownership of the resources of the land, including timber and vegetative or mineral materials and any other living or non-living resources. You have no right to use these resources, except as noted in ยง 2805.14(e) of this subpart;


(d) Determine whether or not your grant is renewable; and


(e) Change the terms and conditions of your grant as a result of changes in legislation, regulation, or as otherwise necessary to protect public health or safety or the environment. After a grant is signed by the BLM, any modification of the terms and conditions generally requires the BLM to issue a new or amended grant;




(f) Terminate your authorization for non-compliance; and




(g) Require you to provide applicable financial documents and supporting documents including, but not limited to, contractual and subleasing agreements.





---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92215, Dec. 19, 2016; 89 FR 25962, Apr. 12, 2024]






