# § 622.512   Prohibited gear and methods.

Also see § 622.9 for additional prohibited gear and methods that apply more broadly to multiple fisheries or in some cases all fisheries.


(a) *Reef fish*—(1) *Poisons.* A poison, drug, or other chemical may not be used to fish for reef fish in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John.


(2) *Powerheads.* A powerhead may not be used in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John to harvest reef fish. The possession of a mutilated reef fish in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John and a powerhead constitutes a rebuttable presumption of a violation of this paragraph (a)(2).


(3) *Gillnets and trammel nets.* A gillnet or trammel net may not be used in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John to fish for reef fish. The possession of a reef fish in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John and a gillnet or trammel net constitutes a rebuttable presumption of a violation of this paragraph (a)(3). A gillnet or trammel net used in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John to fish for any other species must be tended at all times.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Spiny lobster*—(1) *Spears and hooks.* A spear, hook, or similar device may not be used in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John to harvest a spiny lobster. The possession of a speared, pierced, or punctured spiny lobster in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John constitutes a rebuttable presumption of a violation of this paragraph (c)(1).


(2) *Gillnets and trammel nets.* A gillnet or trammel net may not be used in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John to fish for spiny lobster. The possession of a spiny lobster in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John and a gillnet or trammel net constitutes a rebuttable presumption of a violation of this paragraph (c)(2). A gillnet or trammel net used in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John to fish for any other species must be tended at all times.






