# ยง 63.53   Application content for case-by-case MACT determinations.

(a) *Part 1 MACT application.* The Part 1 application for a MACT determination must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) The name and address (physical location) of the major source. 


(2) A brief description of the major source and an identification of the relevant source category. 


(3) An identification of the types of emission points belonging to the relevant source category. 


(4) An identification of any affected sources for which a section 112(g) MACT determination has been made.


(b) *Part 2 MACT application.* (1) In compiling a Part 2 MACT application, the owner or operator may cross-reference specific information in any prior submission by the owner or operator to the permitting authority, but in cross-referencing such information the owner or operator may not presume favorable action on any prior application or request which is still pending. In compiling a Part 2 MACT application, the owner or operator may also cross-reference any part of a standard proposed by the Administrator pursuant to section 112(d) or 112(h) of the Act for any category or subcategory which includes sources to which the Part 2 application applies. 


(2) The Part 2 application for a MACT determination must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section. 


(i) For a new affected source, the anticipated date of startup of operation. 


(ii) Each emission point or group of emission points at the affected source which is part of a category or subcategory for which a Part 2 MACT application is required, and each of the hazardous air pollutants emitted at those emission points. When the Administrator has proposed a standard pursuant to section 112(d) or 112(h) of the Act for a category or subcategory, such information may be limited to those emission points and hazardous air pollutants which would be subject to control under the proposed standard. 


(iii) Any existing Federal, State, or local limitations or requirements governing emissions of hazardous air pollutants from those emission points which are part of a category or subcategory for which a Part 2 application is required. 


(iv) For each identified emission point or group of affected emission points, an identification of control technology in place. 


(v) Any additional emission data or other information specifically requested by the permitting authority.


(3) The Part 2 application for a MACT determination may, but is not required to, contain the following information: 


(i) Recommended emission limitations for the affected source and support information consistent with ยง 63.52(f). The owner or operator may recommend a specific design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, as an emission limitation. 


(ii) A description of the control technologies that would be applied to meet the emission limitation including technical information on the design, operation, size, estimated control efficiency and any other information deemed appropriate by the permitting authority, and identification of the affected sources to which the control technologies must be applied. 


(iii) Relevant parameters to be monitored and frequency of monitoring to demonstrate continuous compliance with the MACT emission limitation over the applicable reporting period.



---

[N] [67 FR 16609, Apr. 5, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 32602, May 30, 2003]




