# § 97.2   Applicability.

This part:


(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).


(b) Is intended only to provide guidance for the internal operations of the DoD, without displacing the responsibility of the Department of Justice to represent the United States in litigation.


(c) Does not preclude official comments on matters in litigation.


(d) Does not apply to the release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony in connection with:


(1) Courts-martial convened by the authority of a Military Department.


(2) Administrative proceedings or investigations conducted by or for a DoD Component.


(3) Security-clearance adjudicative proceedings, including those conducted pursuant to DoD Directive 5220.6, “Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program,” January 2, 1992, as amended (available at *https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/522006p.pdf*).


(4) Administrative proceedings conducted by or for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Merit Systems Protection Board.


(5) Negotiated grievance proceedings conducted in accordance with a collective bargaining agreement.


(6) Requests by Government counsel representing the United States or a Federal agency in litigation.


(7) Disclosures to Federal, State, local, or foreign authorities related to investigations or other law-enforcement activities conducted by a DoD law-enforcement officer, agent, or organization.


(e) Does not affect in any way existing laws or DoD programs governing:


(1) The release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony in grand jury proceedings.


(2) Freedom of Information Act requests submitted pursuant to 32 CFR part 286, even if the records sought are related to litigation.


(3) Privacy Act requests submitted pursuant to 32 CFR part 310, even if the records sought are related to litigation.


(4) The release of official information outside of litigation.


(f) Does not create any right or benefit (substantive or procedural) enforceable at law against the DoD or the United States.






