# § 7.63   Mandatory label information.

(a) *Mandatory information.* Malt beverage containers must bear a label or labels (as defined in § 7.61(a)) containing the following information:


(1) Brand name, in accordance with § 7.64;


(2) Class, type, or other designation, in accordance with subpart I of this part;


(3) Alcohol content, in accordance with § 7.65, for malt beverages that contain any alcohol derived from added nonbeverage flavors or other added nonbeverage ingredients (other than hops extract) containing alcohol;


(4) Name and address of the bottler or importer (which may be blown, embossed, or molded into the container as part of the process of manufacturing the container), in accordance with § 7.66, 7.67, or 7.68, as applicable; and


(5) Net contents (which may be blown, embossed, or molded into the container as part of the process of manufacturing the container), in accordance with § 7.70.


(b) *Disclosure of certain ingredients.* Certain ingredients must be declared on a label without the inclusion of any additional information as part of the statement as follows:


(1) *FD&C Yellow No. 5.* If a malt beverage contains the coloring material FD&C Yellow No. 5, the label must include a statement to that effect, such as “FD&C Yellow No. 5” or “Contains FD&C Yellow No. 5.”


(2) *Cochineal extract or carmine.* If a malt beverage contains the color additive cochineal extract or the color additive carmine, the label must include a statement to that effect, using the respective common or usual name (such as, “contains cochineal extract” or “contains carmine”). This requirement applies to labels when either of the coloring materials is used in a malt beverage that is removed from bottling premises or from customs custody on or after April 16, 2013.


(3) *Sulfites.* If a malt beverage contains 10 or more parts per million of sulfur dioxide or other sulfiting agent(s) measured as total sulfur dioxide, the label must include a statement to that effect. Examples of acceptable statements are “Contains sulfites” or “Contains (a) sulfiting agent(s)” or a statement identifying the specific sulfiting agent. The alternative terms “sulphites” or “sulphiting” may be used.


(4) *Aspartame.* If the malt beverage contains aspartame, the label must include the following statement, in capital letters, separate and apart from all other information: “PHENYLKETONURICS: CONTAINS PHENYLALANINE.”




