# ยง 30.44   Weighing containers.

(a) *Weighing containers of more than 10 wine gallons.* The weight of containers having a capacity in excess of 10 wine gallons shall be determined and recorded in pounds and half pounds.


(b) *Weighing containers of 10 wine gallons or less.* The weight for containers of a capacity of 10 wine gallons or less shall be determined in pounds and ounces, or pounds and hundredths of a pound, and shall be recorded in pounds and hundredths of a pound. The equivalent pounds and hundredths of pounds and the corresponding wine gallons and proof gallons shall be expressed as shown in the following table for the respective weights in pounds and ounces and proofs shown therein or, as applicable, computed in accordance with rules in this section.


(c) *Containers of other proofs or sizes.* Where containers of proofs or sizes not shown above are to be filled, the following rule may be used for ascertaining the weight of the spirits to be placed in the container: Divide the number of gallons representing the quantity of spirits to be placed in the container by the fractional part of a gallon equivalent to 1 pound, to obtain the weight of the spirits in pounds and fractions of a pound to two decimal places. Reduce the decimal fraction of a pound to ounces by multiplying by 16, calling any fraction of an ounce a whole ounce. The pounds and ounces thus obtained will determine the point to which the spirits must be weighed to produce the results desired. If the weight must be marked on the container in pounds and decimal fractions of a pound, it will be necessary to convert the ounces to hundredths of a pound. The fraction of a gallon equivalent to 1 pound at any given proof shall be ascertained by reference to Table 4. However, if the spirits contain solids in excess of 600 milligrams per 100 milliliters, the fraction of a gallon equivalent to 1 pound shall be determined as prescribed for such spirits in ยง 30.41.


