# ยง 40.502   Factory premises.

(a) *General.* The premises used by a manufacturer of processed tobacco to conduct such business must be described on its permit and such premises must include any physical location or building used for: Manufacturing and storing processed tobacco; storing materials, equipment, and supplies related to or used in the manufacturing and storage of processed tobacco; and carrying on activities in connection with the manufacturing and storage of processed tobacco. The premises may consist of more than one building, or portions of buildings, which need not be contiguous or located in the same city, town, village, or State. The manufacturer must designate a central location as a repository for the records required under this subpart. The application for the permit filed under ยง 40.492 must describe the buildings or portions of buildings by street address (number, street, city or equivalent, and State). The permit application must include a diagram, in duplicate, showing the following information, if applicable:


(1) The identification of each building by a letter, number, or similar designation if the factory is in more than one building and each building is not identifiable by a separate street address; and


(2) The particular floor or floors, or room or rooms, comprising the factory if the factory consists of, or includes, a portion of a building or portions of buildings.


(b) *Permits issued prior to June 21, 2012.* A manufacturer of processed tobacco operating under a permit issued prior to June 21, 2012, must submit the information required under paragraph (a) of this section within 180 days after June 21, 2012.


(c) *Extension or curtailment of factory.* If a manufacturer of processed tobacco wishes to change the premises delineated by its permit to an extent that would be inconsistent with the description or diagram of the premises that was submitted with the manufacturer's last permit application, the manufacturer must submit an application on TTB Form 5200.16 for, and obtain, an amended permit before the change in the premises occurs. The application must describe the proposed change in the premises and must be accompanied by a new diagram if required under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-104, 77 FR 37303, June 21, 2012]




