# § 64.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part:


(a) *Federal employee* means: (1) An employee as defined by section 2105 of title 5, United States Code; (2) an individual employed by, or occupying an office or position in, the government of a territory or possession of the United States or the District of Columbia; (3) a member of a uniformed service; (4) the President and Vice President; and (5) a Member of the Senate or the House of Representatives, a Delegate from the District of Columbia in Congress, and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico in Congress.


(b) A *foreign government* means a foreign government and an official agent or representative thereof; a group of governments and an official agent or representative thereof; an international organization composed of governments, and an official agent or representative thereof.


(c) A program of the *type described in section 102(a)(2)(i) of the Act* means a cultural exchange program involving “visits and interchanges between the United States and other countries of leaders, experts in fields of specialized knowledge or skill, and other influential or distinguished persons.”


(d) The “purpose stated in section 101 of the Act” is “to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of the other countries by means of educational and cultural exchange; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations, and the contributions being made toward a peaceful and more fruitful life for people throughout the world; to promote international cooperation for educational and cultural advancement; and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic, and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.”


(e) *Secretary of State* means the Secretary of State of the Department of State.


(f) *Department of State* means the Department of State.


(g) *Act* means the Mutual Educational Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451 *et seq.*).


(h) *Member of the family or household* of a Federal employee means a relative of the employee by blood, marriage, or adoption or any person who is a resident of the household of the employee.



---

[N] [44 FR 42247, Sept. 20, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 11016, Apr. 1, 1986. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999]




