# § 1.957   Committee authority.

(a) *Regional office committee.* On matters covered in § 1.956, the regional office Committee is authorized to determine the following issues:


(1) *Waivers.* A decision may be rendered to grant or deny waiver of collection of a debt in the following debt categories:


(i) Loan guaranty program (38 U.S.C. 5302(b)). Committees may consider waiver of the indebtedness of a veteran or spouse resulting from: (A) The payment of a claim under the guaranty or insurance of loans, (B) the liquidation of direct loans, (C) the liquidation of loans acquired under § 36.4318, and (D) the liquidation of vendee accounts. The phrase *veteran or spouse* includes a veteran-borrower, veteran-transferee, a veteran-purchaser on a vendee account, a former spouse or surviving spouse of a veteran.


(ii) Other than loan guaranty program. (38 U.S.C. 5302(a))


(iii) Services erroneously furnished (§ 17.101(a)).


(2) *Compromises*—(i) *Loan program debts* (38 U.S.C. 3720(a)). Accept or reject a compromise offer irrespective of the amount of the debt (loan program matters under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 are unlimited as to amount).


(ii) Other than loan program debts (31 U.S.C. 3711).


(A) Accept or reject a compromise offer on a debt which exceeds $1,000 but which is not over $100,000 (both amounts exclusive of interest and other late payment charges).


(B) Accept or reject a compromise offer on a debt of a $1,000 or less, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges, which is not disposed of by the Chief, Fiscal activity, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(C) Reject a compromise offer on a debt which exceeds $100,000, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges.


(D) Recommend approval of a compromise offer on a debt which exceeds $100,000, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges. The authority to accept a compromise offer on such a debt rests solely within the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice. The Committee should evaluate a compromise offer on a debt in excess of $100,000, using the factors set forth in §§ 1.930 through 1.938. If the Committee believes that the compromise offer is advantageous to the government, then the Committee members shall so state this conclusion in a written memorandum of recommendation of approval to the Chairperson. This recommendation, along with a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR) completed in accordance with § 1.951, will be referred to VA Central Office, Office of Financial Management (047G7), for submission to the Department of Justice for final approval.


(b) *Chief of Fiscal activity.* The Chief of the Fiscal activity at both VBA and VHA offices has the authority, as to debts within his/her jurisdiction, to:


(1) On other than loan program debts under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, accept compromise offers of 50% or more of a total debt not in excess of $1,000, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges, regardless of whether or not there has been a prior denial of waiver.


(2) On other than loan program debts under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, reject any offer of compromise of a total debt not in excess of $1,000, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges, regardless of whether or not there has been a prior denial of waiver.


(3) On other than loan guaranty program debts under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, reject any offer of compromise of a total debt not in excess of $1,000, exclusive of interest, regardless of whether or not there has been a prior denial of waiver.



---

[N] [44 FR 59906, Oct. 17, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 38803, Sept. 25, 1985; 52 FR 42112, Nov. 3, 1987; 57 FR 47264, Oct. 15, 1992; 60 FR 53276, Oct. 13, 1995; 69 FR 62201, Oct. 25, 2004] 




