# § 334.850   Lake Erie, west end, north of Erie Ordnance Depot, Lacarne, Ohio.

(a) The danger zone: Consists of the waters of Lake Erie within:


(1) *Danger Area I.* The sector of a circle with a radius of 6,500 yards centered at latitude 41°32′30″ N., longitude 33°01′00″ W., and intersecting the southwest boundary of Area II at latitude 41°35′00″ N., longitude 83°03′22″ W., and the southeast boundary of Area II at latitude 41°34′20″ N., longitude 82°57′10″ W.


(2) *Danger Area II* (*Includes Area I*). The area bounded as follows: Beginning at latitude 41°32′30″ N., longitude 83°01′00″ W.; thence to latitude 41°35′00″ N., longitude 83°03′22″ W.; thence to latitude 41°36′00″ N., longitude 83°03′24″ W.; thence to latitude 41°41′30″ N., longitude 83°07′30″ W.; thence to latitude 41°41′30″ N., longitude 83°00′00″ W.; thence to latitude 41°35′40″ N., longitude 82°54′50″ W.; and thence to the point of beginning.


(b) *Types of firing*—(1) *Danger Area I.* Small arms impact area.


(2) *Danger Area II.* Ground-based artillery, antiaircraft artillery and automatic weapons impact area.


(c) Authorized dates and hours of firing:


(1) *Danger Area I.* 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., e.s.t./e.d.t., daily; actual firing dates and hours within the authorized period to be announced in advance in special firing notices.


(2) *Danger Area II.* 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., e.s.t./e.d.t., daily except on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays; actual firing dates and hours scheduled within authorized period to be announced in advance in special firing notices.


(d) *Restrictions.* (1) No person or vessel shall enter or remain in a danger zone during a scheduled firing period announced in a special firing notice unless specific permission is granted in each instance by a representative of the enforcing officer.


(2) The danger areas within the danger zone shall be open to the public for navigation, fishing and other public use when firing and/or bombing is not scheduled.


(e) *Enforcing agencies.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced for the respective danger areas by the following commanders and such agencies as each may designate for his assigned areas. He will be responsible for proving the prescribed control, signals, and special firing notices.


(1) *Danger Area I.* Adjutant General, State of Ohio.


(2) *Danger Area II.* Adjutant General, State of Ohio.


(f) *Control and signals*—(1) *Danger Area I.* When firing into Area I, red flags will be flown from the safety tower at Camp Perry, and from flag poles in the butts of the ranges being used.


(2) *Danger Area II.* During all types of firing into Area II, red flags will be displayed, one from the safety tower at Camp Perry and one from the safety tower at the Erie Proof Front. During firing into Area II, patrol boats will police and maintain surveillance of the area, and will be in constant radio communication with the shore station controlling the firing.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) The appropriate enforcing officer has authority to suspend any scheduled firing for reasonable periods during regattas and immediately after fishing nets are destroyed or dislocated by severe storms.


(5) The special firing notices which will include schedules of use will be published by the enforcing officer indicated in paragraph (e) of this section, in sufficient time to permit circularization to interested parties and posting on the bulletin boards of post offices in surrounding localities. Special notices will also be furnished the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Detroit, Mich.; the Commander, Ninth Coast Guard District, Cleveland, Ohio; the Regional Manager, Federal Aviation Administration, Chicago, Ill.; and each of the enforcing agencies listed in paragraph (e) of this section. Users of the waterway shall familiarize themselves with the current special firing notices. If in doubt, inquiry should be made to the enforcing officer indicated in paragraph (e) of this section.


(6) Agencies desiring to use the areas shall present their requirements to the respective enforcing officer who is responsible for, and is granted authority to, coordinate the firing and established priorities, for the using agencies.


(g) *Fishing permits.* Fishermen desiring to set fixed nets within the danger zone are required in every instance to have written permits. Permits for placing nets within Areas I and II may be obtained by written application to the Adjutant General, State of Ohio. Applicants for permits must state the location at which they desire to set fixed nets and the period of time which they desire the permit to cover.


(h) *Injurious chemicals.* No phosphorus or other poisonous chemicals injurious to wild fowl or fish will be discharged into the waters of the areas.


(i) The regulations in this section shall be reviewed annually by the Department of the Army to determine whether further limitations of the danger zone shall be considered.



---

[N] [35 FR 17178, Nov. 7, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 20026, Sept. 23, 1972. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17556, Apr. 10, 1997]




