# § 275.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Act* means the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2203).


(b) *Area Director* means the official in charge of a Bureau of Indian Affairs Area Office.


(c) *Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 


(d) *Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, under the direction and supervision of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, who is responsible for the direction of the day-to-day operations of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 


(e) *Days* means calendar days.


(f) *Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which is federally recognized as eligible by the U.S. Government through the Secretary for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.


(g) *Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe.


(h) *Superintendent* means the official in charge of a Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency Office.


(i) *Tribal Chairman* means tribal chairman, governor, chief or other person recognized by the tribal government as its chief executive officer.


(j) *Tribal government, tribal governing body,* and *tribal council* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe.


(k) *Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; or any legally established organization of Indians or tribes which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or bodies or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities. 


(l) *Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs* means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs who discharges the authority and responsibility of the Secretary for activities pertaining to Indians and Indian affairs. 



---

[N] [40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 37446, Aug. 23, 1978; 45 FR 13452, Feb. 29, 1980]




