# ยง 67.1   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Act* means the Act of Congress approved April 30, 1990, Public Law 101-277, 104 Stat. 143, which authorizes the use and distribution of funds awarded the Seminole Indians in Dockets 73, 151, and 73-A of the Indian Claims Commission. 


*Adopted person* means a person whose natural parents' parental rights have been terminated by court order and persons other than the natural parents have exercised or do exercise parental rights with regard to the adopted person. 


*Applicant* means a person who is making application for inclusion on the roll prepared by the Secretary pursuant to the Act of April 30, 1990, by either personally filing an application or by having a sponsor complete and file an application on his or her behalf. 


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs or authorized representative. 


*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. 


*Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or authorized representative. 


*Director* means the Area Director, Eastern Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs or authorized representative. 


*Lineal descendant(s)* means those persons who are the issue of the ancestor through whom enrollment rights are claimed; namely, the children, grandchildren, etc. It does not include collateral relatives such as brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, cousins, etc., or adopted children, adopted grandchildren, etc. 


*Living* means born on or before and alive on the date specified. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or authorized representative. 


*Sponsor* means any person who files an application for enrollment or an appeal on behalf of another person. 


*Superintendent* means the Superintendent, Seminole Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs or authorized representative. 




