# ยง 16.16   Compensation.

(a) *Committee members.* Unless otherwise provided by law, the Commission shall not compensate advisory committee members for their service on an advisory committee. In the exceptional case where the Commission is unable to meet the need for technical expertise or the requirement for balanced membership solely through the appointment of noncompensated members, the Commission may contract for or authorize the advisory committee to contract for the services of a specific consultant who may be appointed as a member of the advisory committee. In such a case, the Commission shall follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Consultants.* Prior to hiring or authorizing the advisory committee to hire a consultant to an advisory committee, the Commission shall determine that the expertise or viewpoint to be offered by the consultant is not otherwise available without cost to the Commission. The compensation to be paid to such consultant may not exceed the maximum rate of pay authorized by 5 U.S.C. section 3109. Hiring of consultants shall be in accordance with OMB Circular A-120 and applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders.


(c) *Staff members.* The Commission may fix the pay of each advisory committee staff member at a rate of the General Schedule, General Management Schedule, or Senior Executive Service in which the Staff member's position would appropriately be placed (5 U.S.C. chapter 51). The Commission may not fix the pay of a staff member at a rate higher than the daily equivalent of the maximum rate for GS-15, unless the Commission has determined that under the General Schedule, General Management Schedule, or Senior Executive Service classification system, the staff member's position would appropriately be placed at a grade higher than GS-15. The Commission shall review this determination annually.




