# ยง 130.820   Records and recordkeeping.

(a) *Records.* (1) The recipient organization will ensure that all financial and programmatic records, whether prepared by itself or another entity, are adequately maintained in accordance with Federal regulations in order to corroborate its performance and financial reports to the SBA, as well as to support SBA examinations or other audits. These records must include adequate documentation to support the expenditures claimed and activities performed under the cooperative agreement. The documentation should provide the means to verify proper separation of costs among various Federal awards and non-Federal spending. See also 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337.


(2) The recipient organization will ensure complete and accurate detailed financial and programmatic documentation by all SBDC service center organizations and service centers. The recipient organization will monitor and oversee its SBDC service center organizations and SBDC service centers each budget period to ensure compliance with the OMB guidelines and regulations. See 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.


(i) The recipient organization and Lead Center will ensure that:


(A) All funds received throughout the SBDC network, both Federal and non-Federal, including program income, are properly accounted for, adequately safeguarded, accurately reported, and properly used to further program objectives.


(B) Each SBDC service center organization has reviewed all charges made to its SBDC accounts, including program income, to ensure that they are allowable.


(ii) The recipient organization's Lead Center monitoring and oversight activities must include annual on-site or virtual visits to all its SBDC service center organizations.


(A) These review procedures must ensure that SBDCs are in compliance with the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement.


(B) The Lead Center will document the results of annual reviews of the financial and program records of its SBDC service center organizations.


(C) An in-person monitoring review must be conducted the same year that there is a change in leadership or a record of problems in that year and must be conducted not less than every 4 years.


(3) The recipient organization must keep records on the amount, source, and purpose of all funding under the overall management of the SBDC network, including Federal programs.


(b) *Availability of records.* (1) All SBDC network records must be made available to the SBA for review upon request.


(2) All SBDC network records, financial and programmatic, must be maintained for a period of three years following the date SBA accepted the annual performance report and final financial status report from the recipient organization.


(3) The recipient organization will maintain sufficiently detailed program and financial documentation to facilitate transition and provide continuous SBDC services when changes occur in SBDC service center organizations, as well as to support reviews and audits authorized by the SBA.



---

[N] [88 FR 76651, Nov. 7, 2023]










