# ยง 10.90   Master records and metal matrices.

(a) Consumption entries covering importations under subheading 8524.99.20, HTSUS, shall be filed at a port in the Customs district in which the factory where the articles will be used is located.


(b) The invoice, or its electronic equivalent, filed with the entry shall contain or be supported by a detailed statement of the cost of production, or its electronic equivalent, in the country where made, of each master record or metal matrix covered thereby.


(c) A bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in ยง 113.62 of this chapter shall be filed for importations under this section.


(d) Entries already filed and future entries shall be liquidated in due course without the assessment of duty, but liability on bonds given with the entries shall be discontinued with respect to any article covered thereby only upon payment of liquidated damages in an amount equal to the duties which would have accrued had the master records or metal matrices been imported for use otherwise than in the manufacture of sound records for export purposes, or upon satisfactory proof that the master records or metal matrices obtained therefrom have been exported or destroyed under Customs supervision, and that all sound records made with the use of such articles have been exported.



---

[N] [28 FR 14663, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41166, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20067, May 29, 1987; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51251, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 90-78, 55 FR 40166, Oct. 2, 1990; T.D. 97-82, 62 FR 51769, Oct. 3, 1997; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61284, Oct. 13, 2015]




