# ยง 403.815   Special rules concerning States.

(a) *Optional State payment of enrollment fee.* (1) A State may enter into payment arrangements with endorsed sponsors to provide payment of some or all of endorsed discount card programs' enrollment fees for some or all of the State's individuals described in ยง 403.810(a) who are not transitional assistance enrollees, provided the enrollment fees are paid directly by the State to the endorsed sponsor.


(2) Expenditures made by a State for enrollment fees described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must not be treated as State expenditures for which Federal matching payments are available under titles XIX or XXI of the Act.


(b) *Optional State payment of coinsurance.* (1) A State may enter into payment arrangements with pharmacies to provide payment of some or all of coinsurance amounts described in ยง 403.808(e) for some or all of the State's transitional assistance enrollees, provided the coinsurance amounts are paid directly by the State to the pharmacy.


(2) Expenditures made by a State for coinsurance described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must not be treated as State expenditures for which Federal matching payments are available under titles XIX or XXI of the Act.


(c) *Coinsurance for Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries.* For transitional assistance enrollees who are qualified Medicare beneficiaries, any coinsurance liability under ยง 403.808(e) must not be treated as Medicare cost-sharing coinsurance, under section 1905(p)(3)(B) of the Act, for which a State would otherwise be required to pay.


(d) *State data.* (1) A State must provide data on a monthly basis in an electronic format as determined necessary by the Secretary to effectuate the verification of beneficiary eligibility for the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program.


(2) Expenditures made by a State in complying with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be treated as State expenditures for which Federal matching payments are available under section 1903(a)(7) of the Act.




