# § 63.1515   Notifications.

(a) *Initial notifications.* The owner or operator must submit initial notifications to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) As required by § 63.9(b)(1), the owner or operator must provide notification for an area source that subsequently increases its emissions such that the source is a major source subject to the standard. 


(2) As required by § 63.9(b)(3), the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source, or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is an affected source, that has an initial startup after the effective date of this subpart and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d), must provide notification that the source is subject to the standard. 


(3) As required by § 63.9(b)(4), the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed major affected source that has an initial startup after the effective date of this subpart and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required by § 63.5(d) must provide the following notifications: 


(i) Intention to construct a new major affected source, reconstruct a major source, or reconstruct a major source such that the source becomes a major affected source; 


(ii) Date when construction or reconstruction was commenced (submitted simultaneously with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction if construction or reconstruction was commenced before the effective date of this subpart, or no later than 30 days after the date construction or reconstruction commenced if construction or reconstruction commenced after the effective date of this subpart); 


(iii) Anticipated date of startup; and 


(iv) Actual date of startup. 


(4) As required by § 63.9(b)(5), after the effective date of this subpart, an owner or operator who intends to construct a new affected source or reconstruct an affected source subject to this subpart, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes an affected source subject to this subpart, must provide notification of the intended construction or reconstruction. The notification must include all the information required for an application for approval of construction or reconstruction as required by § 63.5(d). For major sources, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill these requirements. 


(i) The application must be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but no sooner than the effective date) if the construction or reconstruction commences after the effective date of this subpart; or 


(ii) The application must be submitted as soon as practicable before startup but no later than 90 days after the effective date of this subpart if the construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before the effective date. 


(5) As required by § 63.9(d), the owner or operator must provide notification of any special compliance obligations for a new source. 


(6) As required by § 63.9(e) and (f), the owner or operator must provide notification of the anticipated date for conducting performance tests and visible emission observations. The owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance test is scheduled; notification of opacity or visible emission observations for a performance test must be provided at least 30 days before the observations are scheduled to take place. 


(7) As required by § 63.9(g), the owner or operator must provide additional notifications for sources with continuous emission monitoring systems or continuous opacity monitoring systems. 


(b) *Notification of compliance status report.* Each owner or operator of an existing affected source must submit a notification of compliance status report within 60 days after the compliance date established by § 63.1501. Each owner or operator of a new affected source must submit a notification of compliance status report within 90 days after conducting the initial performance test required by § 63.1511(b), or within 90 days after the compliance date established by § 63.1501 if no initial performance test is required. The notification must be signed by the responsible official who must certify its accuracy. A complete notification of compliance status report must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section. The required information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination. In a State with an approved operating permit program where delegation of authority under section 112(l) of the CAA has not been requested or approved, the owner or operator must provide duplicate notification to the applicable Regional Administrator. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in this section at different times or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the information previously submitted. A complete notification of compliance status report must include:


(1) All information required in § 63.9(h). The owner or operator must provide a complete performance test report for each affected source and emission unit for which a performance test is required. A complete performance test report includes all data, associated measurements, and calculations (including visible emission and opacity tests). 


(2) The approved site-specific test plan and performance evaluation test results for each continuous monitoring system (including a continuous emission or opacity monitoring system). 


(3) Unit labeling as described in § 63.1506(b), including process type or furnace classification and operating requirements. 


(4) The compliant operating parameter value or range established for each affected source or emission unit with supporting documentation and a description of the procedure used to establish the value (e.g., lime injection rate, total reactive chlorine flux injection rate, total reactive fluorine flux injection rate for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces, afterburner operating temperature, fabric filter inlet temperature), including the operating cycle or time period used in the performance test.


(5) Design information and analysis, with supporting documentation, demonstrating conformance with the requirements for capture/collection systems in § 63.1506(c). 


(6) If applicable, analysis and supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with EPA guidance and specifications for bag leak detection systems in § 63.1510(f). 


(7) Manufacturer's specification or analysis documenting the design residence time of no less than 1 second for each afterburner used to control emissions from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln subject to alternative emission standards in § 63.1505(e). 


(8) Manufacturer's specification or analysis documenting the design residence time of no less than 0.8 seconds and design operating temperature of no less than 1,600 °F for each afterburner used to control emissions from a sweat furnace that is not subject to a performance test.


(9) The OM&M plan (including site-specific monitoring plan for each group 1 furnace with no add-on air pollution control device).



---

[N] [65 FR 15710, Mar. 23, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 59793, Sept. 24, 2002; 67 FR 79818, Dec. 30, 2002; 80 FR 56752, Sept. 18, 2015; 81 FR 38088, June 13, 2016]




