# § 1019.4   Procedures for notifying the Commission; content of the notification.

(a) *Where notification must be filed.* The notification of intent to export shall be addressed to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207.


(b) *Coverage of notification.* An exporter must file a separate notification for each country to which noncomplying goods are to be exported. Each notification may include a variety of noncomplying goods being shipped to one country. The notification may include goods intended to be shipped to one country in any one year, unless the Assistant Executive Director of Compliance directs otherwise in writing.


(c) *Form of notification.* The notification of intent to export must be in writing and must be entitled: “Notification of Intent to Export Noncomplying Goods to [indicate name of country].” The Commission has no notification forms, but encourages exporters to provide the required information in the order listed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(d) *Content of notification; required information.* The notification of intent to export shall contain the information required by this subsection. If the notification covers a variety of noncomplying goods the exporter intends to export to one country, the information required below must be clearly provided for each class of goods, and may include an estimate of the information required in paragraphs (d) (3) and (5) of this section. The required information is:


(1) Name, address and telephone number of the exporter;


(2) Name and address of each consignee;


(3) Quantity and description of the goods to be exported to each consignee, including brand or trade names or model or other identifying numbers;


(4) Identification of the standards, bans, regulations and statutory provisions applicable to the goods being exported, and an accurate description of the manner in which the goods fail to comply with applicable requirements; and


(5) Anticipated date of shipment and port of destination.


(e) *Optional information.* In addition to the information required by paragraph (d) of this section, the notification of intent to export may contain, at the exporter's option, the following information:


(1) Copies of any correspondence from the government of the country of destination of the goods indicating whether the noncomplying goods may be imported into that country; and


(2) Any other safety-related information that the exporter believes is relevant or useful to the Commission or to the government of the country of intended destination.


(f) *Signature.* The notification of intent to export shall be signed by the owner of the exporting firm if the exporter is a sole-proprietorship, by a partner if the exporter is a partnership, or by a corporate officer if the exporter is a corporation.




