# § 1.501(r)-2   Failures to satisfy section 501(r).

(a) *Revocation of section 501(c)(3) status.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a hospital organization failing to meet one or more of the requirements of section 501(r) separately with respect to one or more hospital facilities it operates may have its section 501(c)(3) status revoked as of the first day of the taxable year in which the failure occurs. In determining whether to continue to recognize the section 501(c)(3) status of a hospital organization that fails to meet one or more of the requirements of section 501(r) with respect to one or more hospital facilities, the Commissioner will consider all relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:


(1) Whether the organization has previously failed to meet the requirements of section 501(r), and, if so, whether the same type of failure previously occurred.


(2) The size, scope, nature, and significance of the organization's failure(s).


(3) In the case of an organization that operates more than one hospital facility, the number, size, and significance of the facilities that have failed to meet the section 501(r) requirements relative to those that have complied with these requirements.


(4) The reason for the failure(s).


(5) Whether the organization had, prior to the failure(s), established practices or procedures (formal or informal) reasonably designed to promote and facilitate overall compliance with the section 501(r) requirements.


(6) Whether the practices or procedures had been routinely followed and the failure(s) occurred through an oversight or mistake in applying them.


(7) Whether the organization has implemented safeguards that are reasonably calculated to prevent similar failures from occurring in the future.


(8) Whether the organization corrected the failure(s) as promptly after discovery as is reasonable given the nature of the failure(s).


(9) Whether the organization took the measures described in paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(8) of this section before the Commissioner discovered the failure(s).


(b) *Minor omissions and errors*—(1) *In general.* A hospital facility's omission of required information from a policy or report described in § 1.501(r)-3 or § 1.501(r)-4, or error with respect to the implementation or operational requirements described in §§ 1.501(r)-3 through 1.501(r)-6, will not be considered a failure to meet a requirement of section 501(r) if the following conditions are satisfied:


(i) Such omission or error was minor and either inadvertent or due to reasonable cause.


(ii) The hospital facility corrects such omission or error as promptly after discovery as is reasonable given the nature of the omission or error. Such correction must include establishment (or review and, if necessary, revision) of practices or procedures (formal or informal) that are reasonably designed to promote and facilitate overall compliance with the requirements of section 501(r).


(2) *Minor.* In the case of multiple omissions or errors, the omissions or errors are considered minor for purposes of this paragraph (b) only if they are minor in the aggregate.


(3) *Inadvertent.* For purposes of this paragraph (b), the fact that the same omission or error has been made and corrected previously is a factor tending to show that an omission or error is not inadvertent.


(4) *Reasonable cause.* For purposes of this paragraph (b), the fact that a hospital facility has established practices or procedures (formal or informal) reasonably designed to promote and facilitate overall compliance with the section 501(r) requirements prior to the occurrence of an omission or error is a factor tending to show that the omission or error is due to reasonable cause.


(c) *Excusing certain failures if hospital facility corrects and discloses.* A hospital facility's failure to meet one or more of the requirements described in §§ 1.501(r)-3 through 1.501(r)-6 that is neither willful nor egregious shall be excused for purposes of this section if the hospital facility corrects and makes disclosure in accordance with rules set forth by revenue procedure, notice, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. For purposes of this paragraph (c), a “willful” failure includes a failure due to gross negligence, reckless disregard, or willful neglect, and an “egregious” failure includes only a very serious failure, taking into account the severity of the impact and the number of affected persons. Whether a failure is willful or egregious will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances. A hospital facility's correction and disclosure of a failure in accordance with the relevant guidance is a factor tending to show that the failure was not willful.


(d) *Taxation of noncompliant hospital facilities*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, if a hospital organization that operates more than one hospital facility fails to meet one or more of the requirements of section 501(r) separately with respect to a hospital facility during a taxable year, the income derived from the noncompliant hospital facility (“noncompliant facility income”) during that taxable year will be subject to tax computed as provided in section 11 (or as provided in section 1(e) if the hospital organization is a trust described in section 511(b)(2)), but substituting the term “noncompliant facility income” for “taxable income,” if—


(i) The hospital organization continues to be recognized as described in section 501(c)(3) during the taxable year; but


(ii) The hospital organization would not continue to be recognized as described in section 501(c)(3) during the taxable year based on the facts and circumstances described in paragraph (a) of this section (but disregarding paragraph (a)(3) of this section) if the noncompliant hospital facility were the only hospital facility operated by the organization.


(2) *Noncompliant facility income*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), the noncompliant facility income derived from a hospital facility during a taxable year will be the gross income derived from that hospital facility during the taxable year, less the deductions allowed by chapter 1 that are directly connected to the operation of that hospital facility during the taxable year, excluding any gross income and deductions taken into account in computing any unrelated business taxable income described in section 512 that is derived from the facility during the taxable year.


(ii) *Directly connected deductions.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), to be directly connected with the operation of a hospital facility that has failed to meet the requirements of section 501(r), an item of deduction must have proximate and primary relationship to the operation of the hospital facility. Expenses, depreciation, and similar items attributable solely to the operation of a hospital facility are proximately and primarily related to such operation, and therefore qualify for deduction to the extent that they meet the requirements of section 162, section 167, or other relevant provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). Where expenses, depreciation, and similar items are attributable to a noncompliant hospital facility and other hospital facilities operated by the hospital organization (and/or to other activities of the hospital organization unrelated to the operation of hospital facilities), such items shall be allocated among the hospital facilities (and/or other activities) on a reasonable basis. The portion of any such item so allocated to a noncompliant hospital facility is proximately and primarily related to the operation of that facility and shall be allowable as a deduction in computing the facility's noncompliant facility income in the manner and to the extent it would meet the requirements of section 162, section 167, or other relevant provisions of the Code.


(3) *No aggregation.* In computing the noncompliant facility income of a hospital facility, the gross income from (and the deductions allowed with respect to) the hospital facility may not be aggregated with the gross income from (and the deductions allowed with respect to) the hospital organization's other noncompliant hospital facilities subject to tax under this paragraph (d) or its unrelated trade or business activities described in section 513.


(4) *Interaction with other Code provisions*—(i) *Hospital organization operating a noncompliant hospital facility continues to be treated as tax-exempt.* A hospital organization operating a noncompliant hospital facility subject to tax under this paragraph (d) shall continue to be treated as an organization that is exempt from tax under section 501(a) because it is described in section 501(c)(3) for all purposes of the Code. In addition, the application of this paragraph (d) shall not, by itself, result in the operation of the noncompliant hospital facility being considered an unrelated trade or business described in section 513 with respect to the hospital organization. Thus, for example, the application of this paragraph (d) shall not, by itself, affect the tax-exempt status of bonds issued to finance the noncompliant hospital facility.


(ii) *Noncompliant hospital facility operated by a tax-exempt hospital organization is subject to tax.* A noncompliant hospital facility described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to tax under this paragraph (d), notwithstanding the fact that the hospital organization operating the hospital facility is otherwise exempt from tax under section 501(a) and subject to tax under section 511(a) and that § 1.11-1(a) of this chapter states such organizations are not liable for the tax imposed under section 11.


(iii) *Noncompliant hospital facility not a business entity.* A noncompliant hospital facility subject to tax under this paragraph (d) is not considered a business entity for purposes of § 301.7701-2(b)(7) of this chapter.


(e) *Instances in which a hospital organization is not required to meet section 501(r).* A hospital organization is not required to meet the requirements of section 501(r) (and, therefore, is not subject to any consequence described in this section for failing to meet the requirements of section 501(r)) with respect to—


(1) Any hospital facility it is not “operating” within the meaning of § 1.501(r)-1(b)(22);


(2) The operation of a facility that is not required by a state to be licensed, registered, or similarly recognized as a hospital; or


(3) Any activities that constitute an unrelated trade or business described in section 513 with respect to the hospital organization.



---

[N] [T.D. 9708, 79 FR 78998, Dec. 31, 2014; 80 FR 12762, Mar. 11, 2015]




