# § 721.11449   1-Propanaminium, 2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-N-[3-[(1-oxooctyl)amino]propyl]-3-sulfo-, inner salt.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-Propanaminium, 2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-N-[3-[(1-oxooctyl)amino]propyl]-3-sulfo-, inner salt (PMN P-17-184; CASRN 1612795-77-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4) and (5), (b)(concentration set at 1.0%) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 1000.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process or use the substance for use other than firefighting foams, industrial all-purpose cleaners, and transportation washes. It is a significant new use to process the substance to greater than 10% by weight in the final formulated product.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 51662, Aug. 21, 2020]




