# § 29.15   General application procedures.

(a) *Preapplication meeting.* To request the preapplication meeting required by § 29.14 for a new right-of-way or a modification of an existing right-of-way, contact the appropriate Service Regional Office, the geographic jurisdictions of which are listed at 50 CFR 2.2. Contact information for the Service Regional Offices is available at *https://www.regulations.gov* in Docket No. FWS-HQ-NWRS-2019-0017.


(b) *Application submission.* Applicants must submit an application that includes the completed form and required attachments as described in § 29.16. The Service will deem a right-of-way application to be complete, and notify the applicant of such, after the Service has determined that the provided information is sufficient for the agency to make a compatibility determination and comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*). The Service will also notify the applicant if additional information is required for a complete application.


(c) *Payment for cost recovery.* After the Service has determined that an application is complete, the agency will notify the applicant and provide an updated estimate of application processing costs, as set forth at § 29.18(a). The Service will review and process a right-of-way permit application after it has requested and received payment for these costs.


(d) *Providing additional information for permit.* If the Service determines that the requested right-of-way is a compatible use, then the agency will request additional information from the applicant necessary to draft a right-of-way permit document for applicant review. This includes but is not limited to the survey plat or Global Positioning System (GPS) location information described in § 29.17. The applicant must provide this information in order for the Service to develop the permit.


(e) *No guarantee of right-of-way permit.* Submitting a complete application and payment for application processing costs do not guarantee that the Service will issue or renew a right-of-way permit. Issuance or renewal of a right-of-way permit is contingent on a Service determination that the right-of-way is a compatible use. Permit issuance or renewal is also contingent on the applicant:


(1) Providing the information the Service requires to develop the right-of-way permit;


(2) Agreeing to the permit's terms and conditions; and


(3) Providing payment for use and occupancy of the land as well as for future right-of-way monitoring costs.






