# ยง 12.41   Corrective measures.

(a) *Corrective measures.* For items identified during a periodic inspection or comprehensive assessment as requiring corrective action, the following conditions apply:


(1) *Corrective plan and schedule.* (i) Not later than 60 days after a report on a periodic inspection or comprehensive assessment is filed with the Regional Engineer, the licensee must submit to the Regional Engineer a plan and schedule for addressing the recommendations of the independent consultant(s) and for investigating, designing, and carrying out any corrective measures that the licensee proposes to implement.


(ii) The plan and schedule may include any proposal, including taking no action, that the licensee considers a preferable alternative to any corrective measure recommended in the report of the independent consultant(s). Any proposed alternative must be accompanied by the licensee's complete justification and detailed analysis and evaluation in support of that alternative.


(2) *Carrying out the plan.* The licensee must complete all corrective measures in accordance with the plan and schedule submitted to, and approved or modified by, the Regional Engineer, and on an annual basis must submit a status report on the corrective measures until all have been completed.


(3) *Extension of time.* For good cause shown, the Regional Engineer may extend the time for filing the plan and schedule required by this section.


(b) *Emergency corrective measures.* The licensee must provide that if, in the course of a periodic inspection or comprehensive assessment conducted under this subpart D, an independent consultant discovers any condition for which emergency corrective measures are advisable, such as a condition affecting the safety of a project or project works as defined in ยง 12.3(b)(4) of this part, the independent consultant must immediately notify the licensee and the licensee must report that condition to the Regional Engineer pursuant to ยง 12.10(a) of this part. Emergency corrective measures must be included in the corrective plan and schedule required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and are also subject to paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.






