# § 63.11086   What requirements must I meet if my facility is a bulk gasoline plant?

Each owner or operator of an affected bulk gasoline plant, as defined in § 63.11100, must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section.








(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, you must only load gasoline into storage tanks and cargo tanks at your facility by utilizing submerged filling, as defined in § 63.11100, and as specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. The applicable distances in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section shall be measured from the point in the opening of the submerged fill pipe that is the greatest distance from the bottom of the storage tank. Additionally, for bulk gasoline plants with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more (calculated by summing the current day's throughput, plus the throughput for the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 365), you must only load gasoline utilizing vapor balancing as specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (6) of this section.


(1) Submerged fill pipes installed on or before November 9, 2006, must be no more than 12 inches from the bottom of the tank.


(2) Submerged fill pipes installed after November 9, 2006, must be no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the tank.


(3) Submerged fill pipes not meeting the specifications of paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section are allowed if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the liquid level in the gasoline storage tank is always above the entire opening of the fill pipe. Documentation providing such demonstration must be made available for inspection by the Administrator's delegated representative during the course of a site visit.


(4) Beginning no later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, each bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more shall be equipped with a vapor balance system between fixed roof gasoline storage tank(s) other than storage tank(s) vented through a closed vent system to a control device and incoming gasoline cargo tank(s) designed to capture and transfer vapors displaced during filling of fixed roof gasoline storage tank(s) other than storage tank(s) vented through a closed vent system to a control device. These lines shall be equipped with fittings that are vapor tight and that automatically and immediately close upon disconnection.








(5) Beginning no later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, each bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more shall be equipped with a vapor balance system between fixed roof gasoline storage tank(s) other than storage tank(s) vented through a closed vent system to a control device and outgoing gasoline cargo tank(s) designed to capture and transfer vapors displaced during the loading of gasoline cargo tank(s). The vapor balance system shall be designed to prevent any vapors collected at one loading rack from passing to another loading rack.






(6) Beginning no later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline plant subject to this subpart shall act to ensure that the following procedures are followed during all loading, unloading, and storage operations:


(i) The vapor balance system shall be connected between the cargo tank and storage tank during all gasoline transfer operations between a cargo tank and a fixed roof gasoline storage tank other than a storage tank vented through a closed vent system to a control device;


(ii) All storage tank openings, including inspection hatches and gauging and sampling devices shall be vapor tight when not in use;


(iii) No pressure relief device on a gasoline storage tank shall begin to open at a tank pressure less than 18 inches of water to minimize breathing losses;


(iv) The gasoline cargo tank compartment hatch covers shall not be opened during the gasoline transfer;


(v) All vapor balance systems shall be designed and operated at all times to prevent gauge pressure in the gasoline cargo tank from exceeding 18 inches of water and vacuum from exceeding 6 inches of water during product transfers;


(vi) No pressure vacuum relief valve in the bulk gasoline plant vapor balance system shall begin to open at a system pressure of less than 18 inches of water or at a vacuum of less than 6 inches of water; and


(vii) No gasoline shall be transferred into a cargo tank that does not have a current annual certification for vapor-tightness pursuant to the requirements in § 60.502a(e) of this chapter.




(b) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons are not required to comply with the control requirements in paragraph (a) of this section but must comply only with the requirements in § 63.11085(b).




(c) You must perform a leak inspection of all equipment in gasoline service and repair leaking equipment according to the requirements specified in § 63.11089.




(d) [Reserved]




(e) You must submit an Initial Notification that you are subject to this subpart by May 9, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section. The notification must be submitted to the applicable U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13.


(1) The name and address of the owner and the operator.


(2) The address (*i.e.,* physical location) of the bulk gasoline plant.


(3) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to this subpart and identifying the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section that apply to you.


(4) A brief description of the bulk gasoline plant, including the number of storage tanks in gasoline service, the capacity of each storage tank in gasoline service, and the average monthly gasoline throughput at the affected source.






(f) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13, by the compliance date specified in § 63.11083 unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official who must certify its accuracy and must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart. If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification required under paragraph (e) of this section is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under paragraph (e) of this section.


(g) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you are operating in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that requires submerged fill as specified in § 63.11086(a), you are not required to submit an Initial Notification or a Notification of Compliance Status under paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of this section.


(h) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates specified in § 63.11083.


(i) You must keep applicable records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11094 and 63.11095.



---

[N] [73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4177, Jan. 24, 2011; 85 FR 73919, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 39373, May 8, 2024]




