# § 120.462   What are SBA's additional requirements on capital maintenance for SBA Supervised Lenders?

(a) *Minimum capital requirements*—(1) *For NFRLs.* (i) Beginning on January 4, 2024, each NFRL that makes or acquires a 7(a) loan must maintain the minimum capital required by its state regulator, or $2,500,000, whichever is greater.


(ii) Any NFRL approved on or after January 4, 2021, including in the event of a change of ownership or control, must maintain the minimum capital requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(iii) Unless subject to paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, an NFRL must comply with the minimum capital requirements for NFRLs that were in effect on January 3, 2021.


(2) *For SBLCs.* For information on minimum capital requirements for SBLCs, see § 120.471.


(b) *Capital adequacy.* The board of directors (or management, if the SBA Supervised Lender is a division of another company and does not have its own board of directors) of each SBA Supervised Lender must determine capital adequacy goals; that is, the total amount of capital needed to assure the SBA Supervised Lender's continued financial viability and provide for any necessary growth. The minimum standards set in § 120.471 for SBLCs and those established in § 120.462(a)(1) for NFRLs are not to be adopted as the ideal capital level for a given SBA Supervised Lender. Rather, the minimum standards are to serve as minimum levels of capital that each SBA Supervised Lender must maintain to protect against the credit risk and other general risks inherent in its operation.


(c) *Capital plan.* (1) The board of directors of each SBA Supervised Lender must establish, adopt, and maintain a formal written capital plan. The plan must include any interim capital targets that are necessary to achieve the SBA Supervised Lender's capital adequacy goals as well as the minimum capital standards. The plan must address any projected dividend goals, equity retirements, or any other anticipated action that may decrease the SBA Supervised Lender's capital. The plan must set forth the circumstances in which capital retirements (e.g., dividends, distributions of capital or purchase of treasury stock) can occur. In addition to factors described above that must be considered in meeting the minimum standards, the board of directors must also address the following factors in developing the SBA Supervised Lender's capital adequacy plan:


(i) Management capability;


(ii) Quality of operating policies, procedures, and internal controls;


(iii) Quality and quantity of earnings;


(iv) Asset quality and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses within the loan portfolio;


(v) Sufficiency of liquidity; and


(vi) Any other risk-oriented activities or conditions that warrant additional capital (e.g., portfolio growth rate).


(2) An SBA Supervised Lender must keep its capital plan current, updating it at least annually or more often as operating conditions may warrant.


(d) *Certification of compliance.* Within 45 days of the end of each fiscal quarter, each SBA Supervised Lender must furnish the SBA with a calculation of capital and certification of compliance with its minimum capital requirement as set forth in §§ 120.471, 120.472, or 120.474, as applicable, for SBLCs and as established in § 120.462(a)(1) for NFRLs. The SBA Supervised Lender's chief financial officer must certify the calculation to be correct. The quarterly calculation and certification of compliance may be included in the SBA Supervised Lender's Quarterly Condition Report.


(e) *Capital impairment.* An SBA Supervised Lender must meet its minimum regulatory capital requirement and avoid capital impairment. Capital impairment exists if an SBA Supervised Lender fails to meet its minimum regulatory capital requirement under §§ 120.471, 120.472, and 120.474 for SBLCs or as established in § 120.462(a)(1) for NFRLs. An SBA Supervised Lender must provide the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority written notice of any failure to meet its minimum capital requirement within 30 calendar days of the month-end in which the impairment occurred. Unless otherwise waived by the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority in writing, an SBA Supervised Lender may not present any loans to SBA for guaranty until the impairment is cured. SBA may waive the presentment prohibition for good cause as determined by SBA in its discretion. In the case of differences in calculating capital or capital requirements between the SBA Supervised Lender and SBA, SBA's calculations will prevail until differences between the two calculations are resolved.


(f) *Capital restoration plan*— (1) *Filing requirement.* An SBA Supervised Lender must file a written capital restoration plan with SBA within 45 days of the date that the SBA Supervised Lender provides notice to SBA under paragraph (d) of this section or receives notice from SBA (whichever is earlier) that the SBA Supervised Lender has not met its minimum capital requirement, unless SBA notifies the SBA Supervised Lender in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different time period.


(2) *Plan content.* An SBA Supervised Lender must detail the steps it will take to meet its minimum capital requirement; the time within which each step will be taken; the timeframe for accomplishing the entire capital restoration; and the person or department at the SBA Supervised Lender charged with carrying out the capital restoration plan.


(3) *SBA response.* SBA will provide written notice of whether the capital restoration plan is approved or not or whether SBA will seek additional information. If the capital restoration plan is not approved by SBA, the SBA Supervised Lender will submit a revised capital restoration plan within the timeframe specified by SBA.


(4) *Amendment of capital restoration plan.* An SBA Supervised Lender that has submitted an approved capital restoration plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by SBA, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the SBA Supervised Lender must implement the capital restoration plan as approved prior to the proposed amendment.


(5) *Failure.* If an SBA Supervised Lender fails to submit a capital restoration plan that is acceptable to SBA within its discretion within the required timeframe, or fails to implement, in any material respect as determined by SBA in its discretion, its SBA approved capital restoration plan within the plan timeframe, SBA may undertake enforcement actions under § 120.1500.



---

[N] [73 FR 75512, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 78213, Dec. 4, 2020]




