# § 1.147   Review by the Commission of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(a) *Notice of review by the Commission.* The Commission may on its own motion review any decision of an Administrative Law Judge issued under § 1.146 by providing written notice to the Authority and any other party within 45 days of the issuance of the decision. The order will set forth the scope of such review and the issues to be considered and will set a briefing schedule. If no party has filed an application for the Commission to review the decision of the Administrative Law Judge and the Commission does not initiate a review on its own motion, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge becomes the final decision of the Commission for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 704 without the need for further agency proceedings 46 days after its issuance.


(b) *Application for review and response*—(1) *Timing.* The Authority or a person aggrieved by the decision of the Administrative Law Judge under § 1.146 may petition the Commission for review of such decision by filing an application for review with the Secretary of the Commission within 30 days of the issuance of the decision.


(2) *Contents of application and response.* (i) The application must specify the party or parties against whom the appeal is taken and specify the decision and order or parts thereof appealed from. The application, limited to 1,000 words, must provide the reasons it should be granted by addressing the matters the Commission considers in determining whether to grant the application under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. Unless the application is denied, the applicant must perfect its application by filing its opening brief consistent with the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(ii) Any other party to the matter may respond to the application no later than 10 days after it is filed by providing the reasons, limited to 1,000 words, it should not be granted by addressing the matters the Commission considers in determining whether to grant the application under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.


(3) *Effect of denial of application for review.* If an application for review is denied, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge becomes the final decision of the Commission for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 704 without the need for further agency proceedings.


(4) *Discretion of the Commission*—(i) *In general.* A decision whether to grant an application for review is subject to the sole discretion of the Commission. The Commission will issue an order resolving an application for its review as expeditiously as possible. The Commission may decide to grant review of only one issue or any subset of all the issues raised in the application for review.


(ii) *Matters to be considered.* In determining whether to grant an application for review, in full or in part, the Commission considers whether the application makes a reasonable showing that:


(A) A prejudicial error was committed in the conduct of the proceeding before the Administrative Law Judge; or


(B) The decision involved:


(*1*) An erroneous application of the anti-doping and medication control or racetrack safety rules approved by the Commission; or


(*2*) An exercise of discretion or a decision of law or policy that warrants review by the Commission.


(c) *Nature of review on the merits*—(1) *Standard of review.* The Commission reviews de novo the factual findings and conclusions of law made by the Administrative Law Judge.


(2) *Consideration of additional evidence.* In those cases in which the Commission believes it requires additional information or evidence before issuing a final decision, the Commission, in its discretion, may withhold issuing its decision until it obtains additional information or evidence.


(i) *Order by Commission.* The Commission may issue on its own motion an order allowing the consideration of additional evidence and prescribing the procedures for doing so.


(ii) *Motion by a party.* A party may file a motion to have the Commission consider additional evidence at any time before the issuance of a decision by the Commission. The motion must show, with particularity, that:


(A) Such additional evidence is material; and


(B) There were reasonable grounds for failure to submit the evidence previously.


(iii) *Commission determination.* Upon motion by a party, the Commission may:


(A) Accept or hear additional evidence itself; or


(B) Remand the proceeding to the Administrative Law Judge for the consideration of additional evidence.


(3) *Briefing schedule*—(i) *Opening brief.* If the Commission grants an application for review, the applicant must perfect its application by filing its opening brief, limited to 7,500 words (without leave of the Commission), within 30 days of the Commission's order granting the application for review. The opening brief must contain, in the following order:


(A) A subject index of the matter in the brief, with page references, and a table of cases with page references;


(B) A concise statement of the case, which includes a statement of facts relevant to the issues submitted for review, and a summary of the argument, which must contain a succinct, clear, and accurate statement of the arguments made in the body of the brief;


(C) A list of the questions presented on appeal that the Commission has agreed to hear;


(D) The argument, clearly presenting the points of fact and law relied upon in support of the position taken on each question, with specific page references to the record and the legal or other material relied upon; and


(E) A proposed order for the Commission's consideration.


(ii) *Answering brief.* The opposing party may respond to the opening brief by filing an answering brief, limited to 7,500 words (without leave of the Commission), within 30 days of service of the opening brief. The answering brief must contain a subject index, with page references, and a table of cases with page references, as well as arguments in response to the applicant's appeal brief.


(iii) *Reply brief.* The applicant may file a reply to an answering brief within 14 days of service of the answering brief. The reply brief, limited to 2,500 words, must be limited to rebuttal of matters in the answering brief and must not introduce new material. The Commission will not consider new arguments or matters raised in reply briefs that could have been raised earlier in the principal briefs. No further briefs may be filed except by leave of the Commission.


(iv) *Word count limitation.* The word count limitations in this section include headings, footnotes, and quotations, but do not include the cover, table of contents, table of citations or authorities, glossaries, statements with respect to oral argument, any addendums containing statutes, rules or regulations, any certificates of counsel, and any proposed form of order. Extensions of word count limitations are disfavored and will only be granted when a party can make a strong showing that undue prejudice would result from complying with the existing limit.


(4) *Oral argument.* Oral arguments will be held in all cases on review to the Commission unless the Commission orders otherwise or upon request of any party made at the time of filing of its brief. Unless the Commission orders otherwise, argument will be held within 30 days of the deadline for filing reply briefs and will be limited to 20 minutes per side.


(5) *Decision*—(i) *Timing.* The Commission will issue its final decision within 30 days of oral argument or, if no argument is held, within 30 days of the deadline for the filing of reply briefs. The Commission may extend this time period by up to 30 days for good cause.


(ii) *Content; resolution.* The Commission will include in its decision a statement of the reasons or bases for its action and any concurring and dissenting opinions. Based on its decision, the Commission may:


(A) Affirm, reverse, modify, set aside, or remand for further proceedings before the Administrative Law Judge, in whole or in part, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge; and


(B) Make any finding or conclusion that, in the judgment of the Commission, is proper and based on the record.






