# § 1303.60   Notification procedures for confidential commercial information.

(a) *Definitions.* (1) “Confidential commercial information” means commercial or financial information obtained by OMB from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).


(2) *Submitter* means any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information, either directly or indirectly, to the Federal Government.


(b) *Designation of confidential commercial information.* A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, at the time of submission, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA. These designations expire 10 years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.


(c) *When notice to submitters is required.* (1) OMB will promptly notify a submitter when OMB determines that a pending FOIA lawsuit seeks to compel the disclosure of records containing the submitter's confidential information, or if OMB determines that it may be required to disclose such records, provided:


(i) The requested information has been designated by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; or


(ii) OMB has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.


(2) The notice will describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, OMB may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications.


(d) *Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.* The notice requirements of this section do not apply if:


(1) OMB determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;


(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;


(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law, including regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12,600 of June 23, 1987; or


(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such case, OMB will give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.


(e) *Opportunity to object to disclosure.* (1) Unless OMB specifies a different period, submitters who fail to respond to OMB's notice within 30 days of OMB's notice will be deemed to have consented to disclosure.


(2) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide OMB a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. OMB is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision.


(3) Any information provided by a submitter under this section may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.


(f) *Analysis of objections.* OMB will consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.


(g) *Notice of intent to disclose.* Whenever OMB decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, OMB will provide the submitter written notice, which will include:


(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections were not sustained;


(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as OMB intends to release them; and


(3) A specified disclosure date, at least 30 days after OMB transmits its notice of intent to disclose, except for good cause.


(h) *Requester notification.* OMB will notify the requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.



---

[N] [84 FR 22951, May 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 48826, June 10, 2024]








