# § 690.14   Applicant's request to recalculate expected family contribution because of a clerical or arithmetic error or the submission of inaccurate information.

(a) An applicant may request that the Secretary recalculate his or her expected family contribution if—


(1) He or she believes a clerical or arithmetic error has occurred; or


(2) The information he or she submitted was inaccurate when the application was signed.


(b) The applicant shall request that the Secretary make the recalculation described in paragraph (a) of this section by—


(1) Having his or her institution transmit that request to the Secretary under EDE; or


(2) Sending to the Secretary an approved form, certified by the student, and one of the student's parents if the student is a dependent student.


(c) If an institution transmits electronically the student's recalculation request to the Secretary, the corrected information must be supported by—


(1) Information contained on an approved form, that is certified by the student, and if the student is a dependent student, one of the student's parents; or


(2) Verification documentation provided by a student under subpart E of part 668 of this chapter.


(d) The recalculation request must be received by the Secretary no later than the deadline date established by the Secretary through publication in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [50 FR 10721, Mar. 15, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 8954, Mar. 14, 1986; 59 FR 54732, Nov. 1, 1994; 61 FR 60397, Nov. 27, 1996; 86 FR 59626, Oct. 28, 2021]




