# § 1054.145   Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?

The interim provisions in this section apply instead of other provisions in this part. This section describes how and when these interim provisions apply.


(a)-(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Special provisions for handheld engines.* Handheld engines subject to Phase 3 emission standards must meet the standards at or above barometric pressures of 96.0 kPa in the standard configuration and are not required to meet emission standards at lower barometric pressures. This is intended to allow testing under most weather conditions at all altitudes up to 1,100 feet above sea level. In your application for certification, identify the altitude above which you rely on an altitude kit and describe your plan for making information and parts available such that you would reasonably expect that altitude kits would be widely used at all such altitudes.


(d) *Alignment of model years for exhaust and evaporative standards.* Evaporative emission standards generally apply based on the model year of the equipment, which is determined by the equipment's date of final assembly. However, in the first year of new emission standards, equipment manufacturers may apply evaporative emission standards based on the model year of the engine as shown on the engine's emission control information label. For example, for the fuel line permeation standards starting in 2012, equipment manufacturers may order a batch of 2011 model year engines for installation in 2012 model year equipment, subject to the anti-stockpiling provisions of 40 CFR 1068.105(a). The equipment with the 2011 model year engines would not need to meet fuel line permeation standards, as long as the equipment is fully assembled by December 31, 2012.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Early banking for evaporative emission standards—handheld equipment manufacturers.* You may earn emission credits for handheld equipment you produce before the evaporative emission standards of § 1054.110 apply. To do this, your equipment must use fuel tanks with a family emission limit below 1.5 g/m2/day (or 2.5 g/m2/day for testing at 40 °C). Calculate your credits as described in § 1054.706 based on the difference between the family emission limit and 1.5 g/m2/day (or 2.5 g/m2/day for testing at 40 °C).


(g) through (i) [Reserved]


(j) *Continued use of 40 CFR part 90 test data.* You may continue to use data based on the test procedures that apply for engines built before the requirements of this part start to apply if we allow you to use carryover emission data under § 1054.235(d) for your emission family. You may also use those test procedures for measuring exhaust emissions for production-line testing with any engine family whose certification is based on testing with those procedures. For any EPA testing, we will rely on the procedures described in subpart F of this part, even if you used carryover data based on older test procedures as allowed under this paragraph (j).


(k)-(m) [Reserved]


(n) *California test fuel.* You may perform testing with a fuel meeting the requirements for certifying the engine in California instead of the fuel specified in § 1054.501(b)(2), as follows:


(1) You may certify individual engine families using data from testing conducted with California Phase 2 test fuel through model year 2019. Any EPA testing with such an engine family may use either California Phase 2 test fuel or the test fuel specified in § 1054.501.


(2) Starting in model year 2013, you may certify individual engine families using data from testing conducted with California Phase 3 test fuel. Any EPA testing with such an engine family may use either California Phase 3 test fuel or the test fuel specified in § 1054.501, unless you certify to the more stringent CO standards specified in this paragraph (n)(2). If you meet these alternate CO standards, we will also use California Phase 3 test fuel for any testing we perform with engines from that engine family. The following alternate CO standards apply instead of the CO standards specified in § 1054.103 or § 1054.105:



---

[N] [86 FR 34518, June 29, 2021]




