# ยง 3560.403   Account servicing.

(a) *Payment due dates.* Loan or other payments due to the Agency are due on the first day of each month unless otherwise established in the debt instrument or other agreement executed with the Agency.


(b) *Payment application order.* Loan payments will be applied to the borrower's account in the following order of priority:


(1) Amortized audit receivables. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency, over a period of time, as a result of a finding from an audit or other monitoring activity.)


(2) Unamortized audit receivables. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency, in a lump sum payment, as a result of a finding from an audit or other monitoring activity.)


(3) Late fees. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency as a result of late payments.)


(4) Amortized recoverable costs. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency, over a period of time, as a result of Agency payments made on behalf of a borrower for housing project related expenses such as taxes or insurance premiums.)


(5) Unamortized recoverable costs. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency, in a lump sum payment, as a result of Agency payments made on behalf of a borrower for housing project related expenses such as taxes or insurance premiums.)


(6) Overage. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency as a result of a tenant's tenant contribution being higher than basic rent.)


(7) Interest. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency as a result of scheduled interest on a loan and as a result of interest charged on unpaid delinquent principal amounts.)


(8) Principal. (*i.e.*, amounts due to the Agency as the loan principal.)


(9) Advance payments. (Any funds remaining after disbursement of a payment to all other payment priorities will be applied to the borrower's account as an advance regular payment unless a borrower specifically designates, in writing, another application.)


(c) *Late fees.* If payments on a borrower's account, under PASS, are more than $15 delinquent after the close of business on the 10th day after the payment due date, a late fee will be charged to the borrower's account.


(1) Late fees charged to a borrower's account will equal 6 percent of the total regular payments due as specified in any promissory notes, assumption agreements, or reamortization agreements related to the borrower's account.


(2) Late fees are a borrower expense and must not be paid from housing project funds.


(3) The Agency may waive late fees for circumstances beyond a borrower's control and when a waiver is determined by the Agency to be in the best financial interest of the Federal Government.


(d) *Interest on unpaid overdue principal.* On the first day of the month following a payment due date, the Agency will charge interest at the note rate on any unpaid principal payment due according to the loan's amortization schedule (*i.e.*, interest will be charged on delinquent principal). The interest charged on the unpaid principal payment due will be charged to the borrower in addition to the scheduled interest due on payments according to the loan's amortization schedule. 




