# § 281.207   Priority 2 classification.

(a) *Direct sale customer.* (1) Subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and § 281.211 a direct sale customer may request each of its direct interstate pipeline suppliers to classify its essential agricultural requirements (calculated in accordance with § 281.208) as priority 2 entitlements. 


(2) The essential agricultural user shall designate the entitlements in each priority of service category in the currently effective curtailment plan which reflect the essential agricultural requirements. It shall request that entitlements which are reflected in priority of service categories in the currently effective curtailment plan are removed from such priority of service categories. 


(3) Subject to § 281.210, the interstate pipeline shall classify all such essential agricultural requirements as priority 2 entitlements and reduce the entitlements in such other priority of service categories as designated by the direct sale customer, (in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section). 


(b) *Indirect sale customer.* Subject to § 281.211 an indirect sale customer which is an essential agricultural user may ask each of its local distribution company direct suppliers to request each interstate pipeline supplier to classify the indirect essential agricultural requirements as priority 2 entitlements. 


(c) *Local distribution companies.* (1) The local distribution company shall attribute (in accordance with § 281.209) the indirect essential agricultural requirements for which reclassification is sought under paragraph (b) of this section to its direct interstate pipeline suppliers. Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and § 281.211 the local distribution company shall request each of its direct interstate pipeline suppliers to classify the attributed indirect essential agricultural requirements as priority 2 entitlements. 


(2) The local distribution company shall designate the entitlements in each priority of service in the currently effective curtailment plan which reflect the attributed indirect essential agricultural requirements. It shall request that those entitlements which are reflected in each category in the currently effective curtailment plan are removed from such priority of service category. 


(3) Subject to § 281.210, the interstate pipeline shall classify all such attributed indirect essential agricultural requirements as priority 2 entitlements and shall reduce the entitlements of the local distribution company in such other priority of service categories as designated by the local distribution company, (in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section). 


(d) *Interstate pipeline.* (1) Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and § 281.211 an interstate pipeline purchaser may request each of its direct interstate pipeline suppliers to classify the attributed priority 2 entitlements (calculated under § 281.209) as priority 2 entitlements in the currently effective curtailment plan of the interstate pipeline supplier. 


(2) The interstate pipeline purchaser shall designate the entitlements in each priority of service category in the currently effective curtailment plan of the interstate pipeline supplier which reflects the attributed priority 2 entitlements and request that those entitlements which are reflected in such priority of service categories in the currently effective curtailment plan are removed from such priority of service category. 


(3) Subject to § 281.210, the interstate pipeline supplier shall classify the attributed priority 2 entitlements as priority 2 entitlements and shall reduce the entitlements of the interstate pipeline purchaser in such other priority of service categories as designated by the interstate pipeline purchaser, (in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section). 



---

[N] [44 FR 26862, May 8, 1979] 




