# § 408.708   What events must you report to us?

This section describes the events that you must report to us. They are— 


(a) *A change of address or residence.* You must report to us any change in your mailing address and any change in your residence, *i.e.*, the address where you live.


(b) *A change in your other benefit income.* You must report to us any increase or decrease in your other benefit income as described in § 408.220.


(c) *Certain deaths.* (1) If you are a representative payee, you must report the death of the entitled individual.


(2) If you have a representative payee, you must report the death of your representative payee.


(d) *Entry into the United States.* You must report to us if you enter the United States to visit or live even if you have no intention of abandoning your residence outside the United States.


(e) *Removal (including deportation) from the United States.* You must report to us if you are removed (including deported) from the United States under section 237(a) or 212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.


(f) *Fleeing to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, or violating probation or parole.* You must report to us that you are— 


(1) Fleeing to avoid prosecution, under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction within the United States from which you flee, for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); 


(2) Fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction within the United States from which you flee, for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or 


(3) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.




