# § 105.290   Additional requirements—cruise ship terminals.

At all MARSEC Levels, in coordination with a vessel moored at the facility, the facility owner or operator must ensure the following security measures:


(a) Screen all persons, baggage, and personal effects for dangerous substances and devices in accordance with the requirements in subpart E of this part. The owner or operator of a cruise ship terminal need not duplicate any provisions fulfilled by the vessel. When a provision is fulfilled by a vessel, the applicable section of the terminal security program (TSP) must refer to that fact.


(b) Check the identification of all persons seeking to enter the facility in accordance with §§ 101.514, 101.515, and 105.255 of this subchapter. Persons holding a Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) must be checked as set forth in subpart E of part 101 of this subchapter. For persons not holding a TWIC, this check includes confirming the individual's validity for boarding by examining passenger tickets, boarding passes, government identification or visitor badges, or work orders;


(c) Designate holding, waiting, or embarkation areas within the facility's secure area to segregate screened persons and their personal effects awaiting embarkation from unscreened persons and their personal effects;


(d) Provide additional security personnel to designated holding, waiting, or embarkation areas within the facility's secure area; and


(e) Deny individuals not holding a TWIC access to secure and restricted areas unless escorted.



---

[N] [USCG-2006-24196, 72 FR 3585, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended by USCG-2006-23846, 83 FR 12102, Mar. 19, 2018; USCG-2007-28915, 81 FR 57712, Aug. 23, 2016]




