# § 165.754   Safety Zone; San Juan Harbor, San Juan, PR.

(a) *Regulated area.* A moving safety zone is established in the following area:


(1) The waters around liquefied gas (LG) carriers entering San Juan Harbor in an area one half mile around each vessel, beginning one mile north of the Bahia de San Juan Lighted Buoy #3, in approximate position 18°28′17.8″ N, 066°07′36.4″ W and continuing until the vessel is moored at the Puma Energy dock, Cataño Oil dock, or Wharf B in approximate position 18°25′47″ N, 066°6′32″ W. All coordinates are North American Datum 1983.


(2) The waters around LG carriers in a 50-yard radius around each vessel when moored at the Puma Energy dock, Cataño Oil dock, or Wharf B.


(3) The waters around LG carriers departing San Juan Harbor in an area one half mile around each vessel beginning at the Puma Energy Dock, Cataño Oil dock, or Wharf B in approximate position 18°25′47″ N, 066°6′32″ W when the vessel gets underway, and continuing until the stern passes the Bahia de San Juan Lighted Buoy #3, in approximate position 18°28′17.8″ N, 066°07′36.4″ W. All coordinates referenced use datum: NAD 83.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may enter, transit or remain in the safety zone unless authorized by the Captain of the Port (COTP), San Juan, Puerto Rico, or a designated Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer. Those operating in the safety zone with the COTP's authorization must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or his designated representative.


(2) Persons desiring to transit the area of the safety zones may contact the COTP San Juan or his designated representative to seek permission to transit the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or his designated representative.


(3) Vessels encountering emergencies, which require transit through the moving safety zone, should contact the Coast Guard patrol craft or Duty Officer on VHF Channel 16. In the event of an emergency, the Coast Guard patrol craft may authorize a vessel to transit through the safety zone with a Coast Guard designated escort.


(4) The Captain of the Port and the Duty Officer at Sector San Juan, Puerto Rico, can be contacted at telephone number 787-289-2041. The Coast Guard Patrol Commander enforcing the safety zone can be contacted on VHF-FM channels 16 and 22A.


(5) Coast Guard Sector San Juan will, when necessary and practicable, notify the maritime community of periods during which the safety zones will be in effect by providing advance notice of scheduled arrivals and departure of liquefied gas carriers via a Marine Broadcast Notice to Mariners.


(6) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of on-scene patrol personnel. On-scene patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, or petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. Coast Guard Auxiliary and local or state officials may be present to inform vessel operators of the requirements of this section, and other applicable laws.



---

[N] [USCG-2019-0460, 85 FR 26616, May 5, 2020]




