# § 22.15   Authorization—exhibition use of eagle specimens.

(a) *Scope.* The regulations in this section authorize qualified public entities to possess lawfully acquired eagle specimens, including whole bird specimens, parts, feathers, inactive nests, and nonviable eggs, for conservation education purposes. This authorization does not apply to live eagles, viable eggs, or in-use nests. Qualified public entities must be:


(1) A museum, scientific society, or zoological park;


(2) Open to the general public;


(3) Established, maintained, and operated as a governmental service or privately endowed and organized but not operated for profit; and


(4) Conducting programs for the purpose of educating the public about bald eagle or golden eagle biology, ecology, and conservation.


(b) *Acquisition.* Bald eagle and golden eagle specimens must be acquired from persons authorized by valid permit or regulatory authorization to possess and donate them. You are responsible for ensuring specimens were legally acquired. Eagle specimens salvaged after January 30, 2025 must have written documentation from the National Eagle Repository for exhibition use.


(c) *Disposition.* You may dispose of eagle specimens by donating them to any entity authorized to receive them under a valid permit or regulatory authorization. You may contact the National Eagle Repository and, if directed, ship the specimens to the Repository. Otherwise, you must dispose of eagle specimens by destruction in accordance with Federal, Tribal, State, or local laws and ordinances.


(d) *Possession.* Each eagle specimen must remain tagged with the species, date, location, name of the donor, and donor's authorization for acquisition (*e.g.,* permit number or CFR citation of the applicable regulatory authorization, *e.g.,* 50 CFR 21.16). Specimen tags may be temporarily removed during educational programs. Eagle specimens may be taxidermied by a federally permitted taxidermist (§ 21.63 of this subchapter B), or by employees or volunteers of your organization, as part of their official duties.


(e) *Educational programs.* Eagle specimens must be used for public educational programs or held for public archival purposes. Specimens held for archival purposes must be properly archived and readily accessible to the public for research purposes. Specimens may be used for observational research without additional authorization; however, removal of samples requires additional authorization, such as an eagle scientific permit (§ 22.50).


(f) *Prohibitions.* Specimens may not be purchased, sold, or bartered. You must not display any bald eagle or golden eagle specimens in a manner that implies personal use or include specimens used in millinery, ornamental, or similar objects, except as authorized for pre-Act specimens lawfully acquired in accordance with § 22.4(a).


(g) *Records.* You must maintain accurate records of operations on a calendar-year basis and retain these records for 5 years. Records must reflect how you meet the eligibility criteria for this authorization, the programs conducted, each specimen in possession, and, if applicable, specimen disposition. At any reasonable time upon request by the Service, you must allow the Service to inspect any migratory bird specimens held under this regulatory authorization and review any records kept.


(h) *Other laws.* You must comply with any Federal, Tribal, State, or Territorial requirements that apply to possession of eagle specimens for exhibition use.


















