# § 702.1   Definitions.

(a) *The Act* means the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301, *et seq.*

(b) *Consumer product* means any tangible personal property which is distributed in commerce and which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes (including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed). Products which are purchased solely for commercial or industrial use are excluded solely for purposes of this part.


(c) *Written warranty* means—


(1) Any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale of a consumer product by a supplier to a buyer which relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time, or


(2) Any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product to refund, repair, replace or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking,


(d) *Warrantor* means any supplier, manufacturer, or other person who gives or offers to give a written warranty.


(e) *Seller* means any person who sells or offers for sale for purposes other than resale or use in the ordinary course of the buyer's business any consumer product.


(f) *Supplier* means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product directly or indirectly available to consumers.


(g) *Manufacturer* means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product.



---

[N] [40 FR 60189, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 7574, Mar. 12, 1987; 81 FR 63669, Sept. 15, 2016]




