# § 170.5   What definitions apply to this part?

*Access road* means a public highway or road that provides access to Tribal land and appears on the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (NTTFI).


*Agreement* means a self-determination contract, self-governance agreement, Program Agreement or other appropriate agreement authorized under 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(2), developed in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(6) and(b)(7) as well as 23 U.S.C. 207, to fund and manage the programs, functions, services and activities transferred to a Tribe.


*Appeal* means a request by a Tribe or consortium for an administrative review of an adverse agency decision.


*Asset management* as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(2) means a strategic and systematic process of operating, maintaining, and improving physical assets, with a focus on both engineering and economic analysis based upon quality information, to identify a structured sequence of maintenance, preservation, repair, rehabilitation, and replacement actions that will achieve and sustain a desired state of good repair over the lifecycle of the assets at minimum practicable cost.


*BIA Force Account* means the performance of work done by BIA employees.


*BIA Road System* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs Road System under the NTTFI and includes only those existing and proposed facilities for which the BIA has or plans to obtain legal right-of-way.


*BIA System Inventory* means Bureau of Indian Affairs System Inventory under the NTTFI that includes the BIA Road System, Tribally owned public roads, and facilities not owned by an Indian Tribal government or the BIA in the States of Oklahoma and Alaska that were used to generate road mileage for computation of the funding formula in the Indian Reservation Roads Program prior to October 1, 2004.


*Consortium* means an organization or association of Tribes that is authorized by those Tribes to negotiate and execute an Agreement to receive funding, manage, and carry out the program functions, services, and activities associated with the Tribal Transportation Program on behalf its member Tribes.


*Construction,* as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(4), means the supervising, inspecting, actual building, and incurrence of all costs incidental to the construction or reconstruction of a Tribal transportation facility, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(31). The term includes—


(1) Preliminary engineering, engineering, and design-related services directly relating to the construction of a Tribal transportation facility project, including engineering, design, project development and management, construction project management and inspection, surveying, mapping (including the establishment of temporary and permanent geodetic control under specifications of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration), and architectural-related services;


(2) Reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, rehabilitation, and preservation;


(3) Acquisition of rights-of-way;


(4) Relocation assistance, acquisition of replacement housing sites, and acquisition and rehabilitation, relocation, and construction of replacement housing;


(5) Elimination of hazards of railway-highway grade crossings;


(6) Elimination of roadside hazards;


(7) Improvements that directly facilitate and control traffic flow, such as grade separation of intersections, widening of lanes, channelization of traffic, traffic control systems, and passenger loading and unloading areas; and


(8) Capital improvements that directly facilitate an effective vehicle weight enforcement program, such as scales (fixed and portable), scale pits, scale installation, and scale houses.


*Construction contract* means a fixed price or cost reimbursement self-determination contract for a construction project or an eligible TTP funded road maintenance project, except that such term does not include any contract—


(1) That is limited to providing planning services and construction management services (or a combination of such services);


(2) For the housing improvement program or roads maintenance program of the BIA administered by the Secretary; or


(3) For the health facility maintenance and improvement program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.


*Contract* means a self-determination contract as defined in section 4(j) of the ISDEAA or a procurement document issued under Federal or Tribal procurement acquisition regulations.


*Days* means calendar days, except where the last day of any time period specified in this part falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period will carry over to the next business day unless otherwise prohibited by law.


*Design* means services related to preparing drawings, specifications, estimates, and other design submissions specified in a contract or agreement, as well as services during the bidding/negotiating, construction, and operational phases of the project.


*Financial constraint or Fiscal constraint* means that a plan (metropolitan transportation plan, TTIP, or STIP) includes financial information demonstrating that projects can be implemented using committed, available, or reasonably available revenue sources, with reasonable assurance that the federally supported transportation system is adequately operated and maintained. (*See* 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135.) Documentation must be developed that demonstrates that there is a balance between the expected revenue sources for the transportation investments and the estimated costs of the projects and programs described in the planning documents.


(1) For the TTIP and the STIP, financial constraint/fiscal constraint applies to each program year.


(2) Projects in air quality nonattainment and maintenance areas can be included in the first two years of the TTIP and STIP only if funds are “available” or “committed.” See 23 CFR 450.104.


*Governmental subdivision of a Tribe* means a unit of a Tribe which is authorized to participate in a TTP activity on behalf of the Tribe.


*Indian* means a person who is a member of a Tribe or as otherwise defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b.


*Maintenance* means the preservation of the Tribal transportation facilities, including surface, shoulders, roadsides, structures, and such traffic-control devices as are necessary for safe and efficient utilization of the facility (see 23 U.S.C. 101(13)).


*National Bridge and Tunnel Inventory (or NBTI)* means the database of structural and appraisal data collected to fulfill the requirements of the National Bridge and Tunnel Inspection Standards, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 144. Each State and BIA must maintain an inventory of all bridges and tunnels that are subject to the NBTI standards and provide this data to the FHWA.


*National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (or NTTFI)* means at a minimum, transportation facilities that are eligible for assistance under the Tribal transportation program that an Indian Tribe has requested, including facilities that meet at least one of the following criteria:


(1) Were included in the Bureau of Indian Affairs system inventory prior to October 1, 2004.


(2) Are owned by an Indian Tribal government (“owned” means having the authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain the facility (see 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20)).


(3) Are owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (“owned” means having the authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain the facility (See 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20)).


(4) Were constructed or reconstructed with funds from the Highway Trust Fund under the Indian reservation roads program since 1983.


(5) Are public roads or bridges within the exterior boundary of Indian reservations, Alaska Native villages, and other recognized Indian communities (including communities in former Indian reservations in the State of Oklahoma) in which the majority of residents are American Indians or Alaska Natives.


(6) Are public roads within or providing access to either:


(i) An Indian reservation or Tribal trust land or restricted Tribal land that is not subject to fee title alienation without the approval of the Federal Government; or


(ii) Indian or Alaska Native villages, groups, or communities whose residents include Indians and Alaska Natives whom the Secretary has determined are eligible for services generally available to Indians under Federal laws applicable to Indians.


(7) Are primary access routes requested by Tribal governments for inclusion in the NTTFI, including roads between villages, roads to landfills, roads to drinking water sources, roads to natural resources identified for economic development, and roads that provide access to intermodal terminals, such as airports, harbors, or boat landings.


*Population adjustment factor* means a special portion of the former Indian Reservation Roads (IRR) Program distribution formula that was calculated annually and provided for broader participation in the IRR Program.


*Preventive maintenance* means the planned strategy of cost effective treatments to an existing roadway system and its appurtenances that preserve the system, impede future deterioration, and maintain or improve the functional condition of the system without increasing structural capacity. Eligible activities should address the aging, oxidation, surface deterioration, and normal wear and tear of the facility caused by day-to-day performance and environmental conditions. In addition, the treatments should extend the service life of the roadway asset or facility to at least achieve the design life of the facility.


*Primary access route* means a route that is the shortest practicable route connecting two points.


*Program* means any program, function, service, activity, or portion thereof.


*Program agreement* means an agreement between the Tribe and Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, or their respective designees, that transfer all but the inherently Federal program functions, services and activities of the Tribal Transportation Program to the Tribe. The provisions of 23 U.S.C. 202 (b)(7)(E) apply only to those program agreements entered into by the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration.


*Project planning* means project-related activities that precede the design phase of a transportation project. Examples of these activities are: Collecting data on traffic, accidents, or functional, safety or structural deficiencies; corridor studies; conceptual studies, environmental studies; geotechnical studies; archaeological studies; project scoping; public hearings; location analysis; preparing applications for permits and clearances; and meetings with facility owners and transportation officials.


*Proposed road or facility* means any road or facility, including a primary access route, that will serve public transportation needs, meets the eligibility requirements of the TTP, and does not currently exist.


*Public authority* as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20) means a Federal, State, county, town, or township, Indian Tribe, municipal, or other local government or instrumentality with authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain toll or toll-free facilities.


*Public road* means any road or street under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.


*Real property* means any interest in land together with the improvements, structures, fixtures and appurtenances.


*Regionally significant project* means a project (other than projects that may be grouped in the STIP/TTIP under 23 CFR 450) that:


(1) Is on a facility which serves regional transportation needs (such as access to and from the area outside of the region, major activity centers in the region, major planned developments such as new retail malls, sports complexes, etc., or transportation terminals as well as most terminals themselves); and


(2) Would normally be included in the modeling of a metropolitan area's transportation network, including, as a minimum, all principal arterial highways and all fixed guideway transit facilities that offer a significant alternative to regional highway travel.


*Rehabilitation* means the work required to restore the structural integrity of transportation facilities as well as work necessary to correct safety defects.


*Relative need distribution factor* means a mathematical formula used for distributing construction funds under the former IRR Program.


*Relocation* means the adjustment of transportation facilities and utilities required by a highway project. It includes removing and reinstalling the facility, including necessary temporary facilities; acquiring necessary right-of-way on the new location; moving, rearranging or changing the type of existing facilities; and taking any necessary safety and protective measures. It also means constructing a replacement facility that is both functionally equivalent to the existing facility and necessary for continuous operation of the utility service, the project economy, or sequence of highway construction.


*Relocation services* means payment and assistance authorized by the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisitions Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4601 *et seq.,* as amended.


*Rest area* means an area or site established and maintained within or adjacent to the highway right-of-way or under public supervision or control for the convenience of the traveling public.


*Seasonal transportation route* means a non-recreational transportation route in the NTTFI such as snowmobile trails, ice roads, and overland winter roads that provide access to Indian communities or villages and may not be open for year-round use.


*Secretaries* means the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Transportation or designees authorized to act on their behalf.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or a designee authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.


*Secretary of Transportation* means the Secretary of Transportation or a designee authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary of Transportation.


*State Transportation Department* as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101 (a)(28) means that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction.


*Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or STIP* means a financially constrained, multi-year list of projects developed under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135, and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5305. The Secretary of Transportation reviews and approves the STIP for each State.


*Strip map* means a graphic representation of a section of road or other transportation facility being added to or modified in the NTTFI. Each strip map clearly: identifies the facility's location with respect to State, county, Tribal, and congressional boundaries; defines the overall dimensions of the facility (including latitude and longitude); includes a north arrow, scale, designation of road sections, traffic counter locations, and other nearby transportation facilities; and includes a table that provides the facility's data information needed for the NTTFI.


*Transit* means services, equipment, and functions associated with the public movement of people served within a community or network of communities provided by a Tribe or other public authority using Federal funds.


*Transportation planning* means developing land use, economic development, traffic demand, public safety, health and social strategies to meet transportation current and future needs.


*Tribal road system* means the Tribally owned roads under the NTTFI. For the purposes of fund distribution as defined in 23 U.S.C. 202(b), the Tribal road system includes only those existing and proposed facilities that are approved and included in the NTTFI as of fiscal year 2012.


*Tribal transit program* means the planning, administration, acquisition, and operation and maintenance of a system associated with the public movement of people served within a community or network of communities on or near Tribal lands.


*Tribal Transportation Program* (*or TTP)* means a program established in Section 1119 of Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21), Pub. L. 112-141 (July 6, 2012), and codified in 23 U.S.C. 201 and 202 to address transportation needs of Tribes. This program was continued under Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), Pub. L. 114-94 (Dec. 4, 2015).


*Tribal transportation facility* means a public highway, road, bridge, trail, transit system, or other approved facility that is located on or provides access to Tribal land and appears on the NTTFI described in 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(1).


*Tribe or Indian Tribe* means any Tribe, nation, band, pueblo, rancheria, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, that is federally recognized by the U.S. government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*TTIP* means Tribal Transportation Improvement Program. It is a multi-year list of proposed transportation projects developed by a Tribe from the Tribal priority list or the long-range transportation plan.


*TTP Eligible Transportation Facility* means any of the following:


(1) Road systems and related road appurtenances such as signs, traffic signals, pavement striping, trail markers, guardrails, etc;


(2) Highway bridges and drainage structures;


(3) Boardwalks and Board roads;


(4) Adjacent parking areas;


(5) Maintenance yards;


(6) Operations and maintenance of transit programs and facilities;


(7) System public pedestrian walkways, paths, bike and other trails;


(8) Motorized vehicle trails;


(9) Public access roads to heliports and airports;


(10) Seasonal transportation routes;


(11) BIA and Tribal post-secondary school roads and parking lots built with TTP funds;


(12) Public ferry boats and boat ramps; and


(13) Additional facilities as approved by BIA and FHWA.


*TTP formula funds* means the pool of funds made available to Tribes under 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(3).


*TTP funds* means the funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. 201 and 202.


*TTP planning funds* means funds referenced in 23 U.S.C. 202(c)(1).


*TTP Program Management and Oversight (PM&O) funds* means those funds authorized by 23 U.S.C 202(a)(6) to pay the cost of carrying out inherently Federal program management and oversight, and project-related administrative expenses activities.


*TTP System* means all of the facilities eligible for inclusion in the NTTFI.


*TTPTIP* means Tribal Transportation Program Transportation Improvement Program. It is a financially constrained prioritized list of transportation projects and activities eligible for TTP funding covering a period of four years that is developed by BIA and FHWA based on each Tribe's submission of their TTIP or Tribal priority list. It is required for projects and activities to be eligible for funding under title 23 U.S.C. and title 49 U.S.C. chapter 53. The Secretary of Transportation reviews and approves the TTPTIP and distributes copies to each State for inclusion in their respective STIPs without further action.




