# ยง 3286.5   Overview of installation program.

(a) *HUD-administered installation program.* HUD will administer the installation program, as established and set out in subparts A through H of this part, in a state unless that state administers its own qualifying installation program. The states in which HUD administers an installation program can be identified under this part by referring to a list on a Web site maintained by HUD or by calling HUD. For convenience only, the current URL of the Web site is *http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/mhs/mhshome.cfm* and the current toll-free telephone number to contact the HUD Office of Manufactured Housing Programs is 1-800-927-2891, extension 57.


(b) *State-administered installation programs.* States that have qualifying installation programs, as established through the procedures set out in subpart I of this part, will administer their own programs, except for generally applicable requirements in this subpart A.


(c) *Manufacturer and retailer requirements.* (1) Manufacturers and retailers are responsible for compliance of the home with the construction and safety standards in part 3280 of this chapter, in accordance with the Act and applicable regulations. Manufacturers and retailers must also comply with applicable requirements in this part relating to the installation of the manufactured home.


(2) In the installation instructions required pursuant to part 3285 of this chapter, the manufacturer must include instructions for supporting the manufactured home or sections of homes temporarily and protecting the interior of the manufactured home or sections of homes from damage, pending the first siting of the home for occupancy. The instructions must be adequate to assure that the temporary supports and weatherization used will be sufficient to prevent the home and its transportable sections from being brought out of conformance with the construction and safety standards in part 3280 of this chapter if the home or its sections is either:


(i) Stored at any location for more than 30 days; or


(ii) In the possession of any entity for more than 30 days.


(d) *HUD oversight.* The Secretary may take such actions as are authorized by the Act to oversee the system established by the regulations in this part, as the Secretary deems appropriate.




