# § 23.3   What do the terms used in this part mean?

*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).


*Affiliation* has the same meaning the term has in the Small Business Administration (SBA) regulations, 13 CFR part 121, except that the provisions of SBA regulations concerning affiliation in the context of joint ventures (13 CFR 121.103(h)) do not apply to this part.


(1) Except as otherwise provided in 13 CFR part 121, concerns are affiliates of each other when, either directly or indirectly:


(i) One concern controls or has the power to control the other; or


(ii) A third party or parties controls or has the power to control both; or


(iii) An identity of interest between or among parties exists such that affiliation may be found.


(2) In determining whether affiliation exists, it is necessary to consider all appropriate factors, including common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships. Affiliates must be considered together in determining whether a concern meets small business size criteria and the statutory cap on the participation of firms in the ACDBE program.


*Airport Concession Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (ACDBE)* means a firm seeking to operate as a concession that is a for-profit small business concern—


(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more individuals who are both socially and economically disadvantaged or, in the case of a corporation, in which 51 percent of the stock is owned by one or more such individuals; and


(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more of the socially and economically disadvantaged individuals who own it.


*Alaska Native* means a citizen of the United States who is a person of one-fourth degree or more Alaskan Indian (including Tsimshian Indians not enrolled in the Metlakatla Indian Community), Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or a combination of those bloodlines. The term includes, in the absence of proof of a minimum blood quantum, any citizen whom a Native village or Native group regards as an Alaska Native if their father or mother is regarded as an Alaska Native.


*Alaska Native Corporation (ANC)* means any Regional Corporation, Village Corporation, Urban Corporation, or Group Corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alaska in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*)


*Assets* has the same meaning the term has in 49 CFR part 26.


*Car dealership* means an establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of new and/or used automobiles. Car dealerships frequently maintain repair departments and carry stocks of replacement parts, tires, batteries, and automotive accessories. Such establishments also frequently sell pickup trucks and vans at retail. In the standard industrial classification system, car dealerships are categorized in NAICS code 441110.


*Concession* means one or more of the types of for-profit businesses that serve the traveling public listed in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition:


(1) A business, located on an airport subject to this part, that is engaged in the sale of consumer goods or services to the traveling public under an agreement with the recipient, another concessionaire, or the owner or lessee of a terminal, if other than the recipient.


(2) A business conducting one or more of the following covered activities, even if it does not maintain an office, store, or other business location on an airport subject to this part, as long as the activities take place on the airport: Management contracts and subcontracts, a web-based or other electronic business in a terminal or which passengers can access at the terminal, an advertising business that provides advertising displays or messages to the public on the airport, or a business that provides goods and services to concessionaires.


(3) For purposes of this subpart, a business is not considered to be “located on the airport” solely because it picks up and/or delivers customers under a permit, license, or other agreement. For example, providers of taxi, limousine, car rental, or hotel services are not considered to be located on the airport just because they send shuttles onto airport grounds to pick up passengers or drop them off. A business is considered to be “located on the airport,” however, if it has an on-airport facility. Such facilities include in the case of a taxi operator, a dispatcher; in the case of a limousine, a booth selling tickets to the public; in the case of a car rental company, a counter at which its services are sold to the public or a ready return facility; and in the case of a hotel operator, a hotel located anywhere on airport property.


(4) Any business meeting the definition of concession is covered by this subpart, regardless of the name given to the agreement with the recipient, concessionaire, or airport terminal owner or lessee. A concession may be operated under various types of agreements, including but not limited to the following:


(i) Leases.


(ii) Subleases.


(iii) Permits.


(iv) Contracts or subcontracts.


(v) Other instruments or arrangements.


(5) The conduct of an aeronautical activity is not considered a concession for purposes of this subpart. Aeronautical activities include scheduled and non-scheduled air carriers, air taxis, air charters, and air couriers, in their normal passenger or freight carrying capacities; fixed base operators; flight schools; recreational service providers (*e.g.,* skydiving, parachute-jumping, flying guides); and air tour services.


(6) Other examples of entities that do not meet the definition of a concession include flight kitchens and in-flight caterers servicing air carriers, government agencies, industrial plants, farm leases, individuals leasing hangar space, custodial and security contracts, telephone and electric service to the airport facility, holding companies, and skycap services under contract with an air carrier or airport.


*Concessionaire* means a firm that owns and controls a concession or a portion of a concession.


*Contingent liability* means a liability that depends on the occurrence of a future and uncertain event. This includes, but is not limited to, guaranty for debts owed by the applicant firm, legal claims and judgments, and provisions for Federal income tax.


*Days* means calendar days. In computing any period of time described in this part, the day from which the period begins to run is not counted, and when the last day of the period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period extends to the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Similarly, in circumstances where the recipient's offices are closed for all or part of the last day, the period extends to the next day on which the agency is open.


*Department* or *DOT* means the U.S. Department of Transportation, including the Office of the Secretary.


*Direct ownership arrangement* means a joint venture, partnership, sublease, licensee, franchise, or other arrangement in which a firm owns and controls a concession.


*Good faith efforts* means efforts to achieve an ACDBE goal or other requirement of this part that, by their scope, intensity, and appropriateness to the objective, can reasonably be expected to meet the program requirement.


*Immediate family member* means father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, grandmother, grandfather, grandson, granddaughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or registered domestic partner.


*Indian Tribe* means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any ANC, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, or is recognized as such by the State in which the Tribe, band, nation, group, or community resides. See definition of “tribally-owned concern” in this section.


*Joint venture* means an association of an ACDBE firm and one or more other firms to carry out a single, for-profit business enterprise, for which the parties combine their property, capital, efforts, skills and knowledge, and in which the ACDBE is responsible for a distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the contract and whose shares in the capital contribution, control, management, risks, and profits of the joint venture are commensurate with its ownership interest. Joint venture entities are not certified as ACDBEs.


*Large hub primary airport* means a commercial service airport that has a number of passenger boardings equal to at least one percent of all passenger boardings in the United States.


*Liabilities* mean financial or pecuniary obligations. This includes, but is not limited to, accounts payable, notes payable to bank or others, installment accounts, mortgages on real estate, and unpaid taxes.


*Management contract or subcontract* means an agreement with a recipient or another management contractor under which a firm directs or operates one or more business activities, the assets of which are owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the recipient. The managing agent generally receives, as compensation, a flat fee or a percentage of the gross receipts or profit from the business activity. For purposes of this subpart, the business activity operated or directed by the managing agent must be other than an aeronautical activity, be located at an airport subject to this subpart, and be engaged in the sale of consumer goods or provision of services to the public.


*Material amendment* means a significant change to the basic rights or obligations of the parties to a concession agreement. Examples of material amendments include an extension to the term not provided for in the original agreement or a substantial increase in the scope of the concession privilege. Examples of nonmaterial amendments include a change in the name of the concessionaire or a change to the payment due dates.


*Medium hub primary airport* means a commercial service airport that has a number of passenger boardings equal to at least 0.25 percent of all passenger boardings in the United States but less than one percent of such passenger boardings.


*Native Hawaiian* means any individual whose ancestors were natives, prior to 1778, of the area that now comprises the State of Hawaii.


*Native Hawaiian Organization* means any community service organization serving Native Hawaiians in the State of Hawaii that is a not-for-profit organization chartered by the State of Hawaii, and is controlled by Native Hawaiians


*Noncompliance* means that a recipient has not correctly implemented the requirements of this part.


*Nonhub primary airport* means a commercial service airport that has more than 10,000 passenger boardings each year but less than 0.05 percent of all passenger boardings in the United States.


*Operating Administration* or *OA* means any of the following: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), and Federal Transit Administration (FTA). The “Administrator” of an OA includes his or her designee(s).


*Part 26* means 49 CFR part 26, DOT's Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program regulation.


*Personal net worth or PNW* has the same meaning the term has in 49 CFR part 26.


*Primary airport* means a commercial service airport that the Secretary determines to have more than 10,000 passengers enplaned annually.


*Primary industry classification* means the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code designation that best describes the primary business of a firm. The NAICS Manual is available through the U.S. Census Bureau of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The U.S. Census Bureau also makes materials available through its website (*https://www.census.gov/naics/*).


*Principal place of business* means the business location where the individuals who manage the firm's day-to-day operations spend most working hours and where top management's business records are kept. If the offices from which management is directed and where business records are kept are in different locations, the recipient will determine the principal place of business for ACDBE program purposes.


*Race-conscious* means a measure or program that is focused specifically on assisting only ACDBEs, including women-owned ACDBEs. For the purposes of this part, race-conscious measures include gender-conscious measures.


*Race-neutral* means a measure or program that is, or can be, used to assist all small businesses, without making distinctions or classifications on the basis of race or gender.


*Recipient* is any entity, public or private, to which DOT financial assistance is extended, whether directly or through another recipient, through the programs of the FAA, FHWA, or FTA, or who has applied for such assistance.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation or his/her designee.


*Set-aside* means a contracting practice restricting eligibility for the competitive award of a contract solely to ACDBE firms.


*Small Business Administration* or *SBA* means the United States Small Business Administration.


*Small business concern* means a for profit business that does not exceed the size standards of § 23.33.


*Small hub airport* means a publicly owned commercial service airport that has a number of passenger boardings equal to at least 0.05 percent of all passenger boardings in the United States but less than 0.25 percent of such passenger boardings.


*Socially and economically disadvantaged individual* means any individual who is a citizen (or lawfully admitted permanent resident) of the United States and has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society because of his or her identity as a member of a certain group and without regard to his or her individual qualities. The social disadvantage must stem from circumstances beyond the individual's control. Socially and economically disadvantaged individuals include:


(1) Any individual determined by a recipient to be a socially and economically disadvantaged individual on a case-by-case basis. An individual must demonstrate that he or she has held himself or herself out, as a member of a designated group if the certifier requires it.


(2) Any individual in the following groups, members of which are rebuttably presumed to be socially and economically disadvantaged:


(i) “Black Americans,” which includes persons having origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa;


(ii) “Hispanic Americans,” which includes persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, Central or South American, or other Spanish or Portuguese culture or origin, regardless of race;


(iii) “Native Americans,” which includes persons who are enrolled members of a federally or State-recognized Indian Tribe, Alaska Natives, or Native Hawaiians.


(iv) “Asian-Pacific Americans,” which includes persons whose origins are from Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Burma (Myanmar), Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands, Macao, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, Nauru, Federated States of Micronesia, or Hong Kong.


(v) “Subcontinent Asian Americans,” which includes persons whose origins are from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, Nepal or Sri Lanka;


(vi) Women;


(vii) Any additional groups whose members are designated as socially and economically disadvantaged by the SBA, at such time as the SBA designation becomes effective.


*Subconcession* means a firm that has a sublease or other agreement with a prime concessionaire rather than with the airport itself, to operate a concession at the airport.


*Sublease* means a lease by a lessee (tenant) to a sublessee (subtenant). Sublease is an example of a subconcession in which the sublessee is independently responsible for the full financing and operation of the subleased concession location(s) and activities. A sublease passes on to the sublessee all requirements applicable to the concession under the primary lease, including proportionate share of the rent and capital expenditures.


*Tribally-owned concern* means any concern at least 51 percent owned by an Indian Tribe as defined in this section.


*You* refers to a recipient, unless a statement in the text of this part or the context requires otherwise (*i.e.,* “You must do XYZ” means that recipients must do XYZ).



---

[N] [89 FR 24956, Apr. 9, 2024]




