# § 8101.103   Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) *Prior approval requirement.* Before engaging in any outside employment, with or without compensation, an employee, other than a special Government employee. shall obtain prior written approval from his or her supervisor and the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or Alternate DAEO. The Request for Approval of Outside Activity (CPSC Form 241), available from the DAEO or unit administrative officer, may be used to request approval. Requests for approval shall be forwarded through normal supervisory channels.


(b) *Standard of approval.* Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by Federal statute or regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635.


(c) *Notification of action.* Employees will be notified in writing of the action taken on their requests. All requests will be maintained in the files of the Designated Agency Ethics Official for the duration of the requester's CPSC employment.


(d) *Duration and scope of approval.* Approval will be for a period not to exceed two years, after which renewal approval must be sought. An employment must submit a new request for approval after two years or earlier upon either a significant change in the nature or scope of the outside employment or a change in the employee's CPSC position.


(e) *Definition of employment.* For purposes of this section, “employment” means any form of non-Federal employment, business relationship or activity involving the provision of personal services by the employee, whether or not for compensation. Employment includes, but is not limited to, personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher or speaker. Employment also includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. Employment does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, consumer or civic organization, unless such activities are for compensation other than reimbursement for expenses or involve the provision of professional services or advice to, or serving as an officer, trustee, or member of a board or other such body of, an organization that is a prohibited source as defined in 5 CFR 2635.203(d).




