# § 301.7623-2   Definitions.

(a) *Action.* (1) *In general.* For purposes of section 7623(b) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the term *action* means an administrative or judicial action.


(2) *Administrative action.* For purposes of section 7623(b) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the term *administrative action* means all or a portion of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) civil or criminal proceeding against any person that may result in collected proceeds, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, including, for example, an examination, a collection proceeding, a status determination proceeding, or a criminal investigation.


(3) *Judicial action.* For purposes of section 7623(b) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the term *judicial action* means all or a portion of a proceeding against any person in any court that may result in collected proceeds, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) *Proceeds based on.* (1) *In general.* For purposes of section 7623(b) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the IRS *proceeds based on* information provided by a whistleblower when the information provided substantially contributes to an action against a person identified by the whistleblower. For example, the IRS proceeds based on the information provided when the IRS initiates a new action, expands the scope of an ongoing action, or continues to pursue an ongoing action, that the IRS would not have initiated, expanded the scope of, or continued to pursue, but for the information provided. The IRS does not proceed based on information when the IRS analyzes the information provided or investigates a matter raised by the information provided.


(2) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(c) *Related action.* (1) *In general.* For purposes of section 7623(b) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the term *related action* means an action against a person other than the person(s) identified in the information provided and subject to the original action(s), when—


(i) The facts relating to the underpayment of tax or violations of the internal revenue laws by the other person are substantially the same as the facts described and documented in the information provided (with respect to the person(s) subject to the original action);


(ii) The IRS proceeds with the action against the other person based on the specific facts described and documented in the information provided; and


(iii) The other, unidentified person is related to the person identified in the information provided. For purposes of this paragraph, an unidentified person is related to the person identified in the information provided if the IRS can identify the unidentified person using the information provided (without first having to use the information provided to identify any other person or having to independently obtain additional information).


(2) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Collected proceeds.* (1) *In general.* For purposes of section 7623 and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the terms *proceeds of amounts collected* and *collected proceeds* (collectively, *collected proceeds*) include: Tax, penalties, interest, additions to tax, and additional amounts collected because of the information provided; amounts collected prior to receipt of the information if the information provided results in the denial of a claim for refund that otherwise would have been paid; and a reduction of an overpayment credit balance used to satisfy a tax liability incurred because of the information provided. Collected proceeds are limited to amounts collected under the provisions of title 26, United States Code.


(2) *Refund netting.* (i) *In general.* If any portion of a claim for refund that is substantively unrelated to the information provided is—


(A) Allowed, and


(B) Used to satisfy a tax liability attributable to the information provided instead of refunded to the taxpayer, then the allowed but non-refunded amount constitutes collected proceeds.


(ii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(3) *Amended returns.* Amounts collected based on amended returns constitute collected proceeds if—


(i) The IRS proceeds based on the information provided;


(ii) As a result, the person subject to the action(s) with which the IRS proceeds files amended returns; and


(iii) The amounts collected based on the amended returns relate to the activities or facts described in the information provided.


(4) *Criminal fines.* Criminal fines deposited into the Crime Victims Fund are not collected proceeds and cannot be used for payment of awards.


(5) *Computation of collected proceeds.* (i) *In general.* Pursuant to § 301.7623-4(d)(1), the IRS cannot make an award payment until there has been a final determination of tax. For purposes of determining the amount of an award under section 7623 and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, after there has been a final determination of tax as defined in § 301.7623-4(d)(2), the IRS will compute the amount of collected proceeds based on all information known with respect to the taxpayer's account, including with respect to all tax attributes, as of the date the computation is made.


(ii) *Post-determination proceeds.* If, based on all information known with respect to the taxpayer's account as of the date of the computation described in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, there is a possibility that the IRS may collect additional proceeds, then the Whistleblower Office will continue to monitor the case. If the Whistleblower Office identifies additional collected proceeds, then the IRS will compute and pay accordingly.


(iii) *Partial collection.* If the IRS does not collect the full amount of taxes, penalties, interest, additions to tax, and additional amounts assessed against the taxpayer, then any amounts that the IRS does collect will constitute collected proceeds in the same proportion that the adjustments attributable to the information provided bear to the total adjustments.


(e) *Amount in dispute and gross income.* (1) *In general.* Section 7623(b) applies with respect to any action against any taxpayer in which the tax, penalties, interest, additions to tax, and additional amounts in dispute exceed $2,000,000 but, if the taxpayer is an individual, then only if the taxpayer's gross income exceeds $200,000 in at least one taxable year subject to the action.


(2) *Amount in dispute.* (i) *In general.* For purposes of section 7623(b)(5) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the term *amount in dispute* means the greater of the maximum total of tax, penalties, interest, additions to tax, and additional amounts that resulted from the action(s) with which the IRS proceeded based on the information provided, or the maximum total of such amounts that were stated in formal positions taken by the IRS in the action(s). The IRS will compute the amount in dispute, for purposes of award determinations described in § 301.7623-3(c)(6), when there has been a final determination of tax as defined in § 301.7623-4(d)(2).


(ii) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(3) *Gross income.* For purposes of section 7623(b)(5) and §§ 301.7623-1 through 301.7623-4, the term *gross income* has the same meaning as provided under section 61(a). The IRS will compute the individual taxpayer's gross income, for purposes of award determinations described in § 301.7623-3(c)(6), when there has been a final determination of tax as defined in § 301.7623-4(d)(2).


(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This rule is effective on August 12, 2014. This rule applies to information submitted on or after August 12, 2014, and to claims for award under sections 7623(a) and 7623(b) that are open as of August 12, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9687, 79 FR 47266, Aug. 12, 2014; 79 FR 57785, Sept. 26, 2014]




