# ยง 15.701   Officers Competency Certificates Convention, 1936.

(a) This section implements the Officers Competency Certificates Convention, 1936 (see 46 U.S.C. 8304), and applies to each vessel documented under the laws of the United States navigating seaward of the Boundary Lines in part 7 of this chapter, except:


(1) A public vessel;


(2) A wooden vessel of primitive build, such as a dhow or junk;


(3) A barge; or


(4) A vessel of less than 200 gross tons.


(b) The Master, Mates and engineers on any vessel to which this section applies must hold an MMC officer endorsement to serve in that capacity issued by the Coast Guard under parts 10 and 11 of this subchapter.


(c) A vessel to which this section applies, or a foreign flagged vessel to which the Officers Competency Certificates Convention applies, may be detained by a designated official until that official is satisfied that the vessel is in compliance with the Convention. *Designated official* includes Coast Guard officers, Coast Guard petty officers and officers or employees of the Customs and Border Protection Service.


(d) Whenever a vessel is detained, the owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, Master, or individual in charge may appeal the detention within 5 days under the provisions of ยง 2.01-70 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [CGD 81-059, 52 FR 38652, Oct. 16, 1987, as amended by USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11261, Mar. 16, 2009; USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 78004, Dec. 24, 2013; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102338, Dec. 17, 2024]




