# ยง 14.10   Mandatory review for declassification.

(a) *Scope of review.* The mandatory review procedures apply to information originally classified by the DOL when it had such authority, i.e., before December 1, 1978. Requests may come from members of the public or a government employee or agency. The procedures do not apply to information originated by other agencies and merely held in possession of the DOL. Requests for disclosure submitted under provisions of the Freedom of Information Act are to be processed in accordance with provisions of that Act.


(b) *Where requests should be directed.* Requests for mandatory review for declassification should be directed to the Department of Labor, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM), Washington, DC 20210. Requests should be in writing and should reasonably describe the classified information to allow identification. Whenever a request does not reasonably describe the information sought, the requestor will be notified that unless additional information is provided or the scope of the request is narrowed, no further action will be undertaken.


(c) *Processing.* The OASAM will assign the request for information to the appropriate DOL office for declassification consideration. A decision will be made within 60 days as to whether the requested information may be declassified and, if so, made available to the requestor. If the information may not be released in whole or in part, the requestor will be given a brief statement as to the reasons for denial, and a notice of the right to appeal the determination to the DOL Classification Review Committee, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management, Washington, DC 20210. The requestor is to be told that such an appeal must be filed with the DOL within 60 days.


(d) *Appeals procedure.* The DOL Classification Review Committee will review and act within 30 days on all applications and appeals for the declassification of information. The Committee is authorized to overrule on behalf of the Secretary, Agency determinations in whole or in part, when it decides that continued protection is not required. It will notify the requestor of the declassification and provide the information. If the Committee determines that continued classification is required, it will promply notify the requestor and provide the reasons for the determination.


(e) *Burden of proof.* In evaluating requests for declassification the DOL Classification Review Committee will require the DOL office having jurisdiction over the document to prove that continued classification is warranted.


(f) *Fees.* If the request requires a service for which fair and equitable fees may be charged pursuant to title 5 of the Independent Office Appropriation Act, 31 U.S.C. 483a (1976), the requestor will be notified and charged.




