# § 141.86   Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.

All water systems must sample for lead and copper at taps used to provide water for human consumption in accordance with the requirements of this section.


(a) *Sample site location.* (1) By the start of the first tap monitoring period in which sampling for lead and copper is required under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, each water system must identify potential tap sampling sites and submit a site sample plan to the State as required in § 141.90(a)(1)(i). States may require modifications to submitted site sample plans. Each water system must identify a pool of tap sampling sites that will allow the water system to collect the number of lead and copper tap samples required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section.


(i) To select sampling sites, a water system must use information regarding the material of service lines and connectors, including lead, copper, and galvanized iron or steel, required to be collected under § 141.84.


(ii) Water systems must identify locations in the site sample plan by selecting from sites in the highest tier, unless the site has been found to be unavailable, in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(iii) Sampling sites cannot include sites with installed point-of-entry (POE) treatment devices or taps with point-of-use devices designed to remove inorganic contaminants, except in water systems using these devices at all service connections for primary drinking water taps to meet other primary and secondary drinking water standards as under § 141.93(c)(1).


(2) A water system that has fewer than five sites with drinking water taps that can be used for human consumption meeting the sample site criteria of this paragraph (a) to reach the required number of sample sites listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section, must collect at least one sample from each tap and collect additional samples from those taps on different days during the tap sampling period to meet the required number of sites. Alternatively, the State may allow these water systems to collect a number of samples fewer than the number of sites specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1), provided that 100 percent of all taps that can be used for human consumption are sampled. The State must approve this reduction of the minimum number of samples in writing based on a request from the system or onsite verification by the State.


(3) A water system serving sites with premise plumbing made of lead and/or that are served by a lead service line must collect all samples for monitoring under this section from sites with premise plumbing made of lead and/or served by a lead service line. A water system that cannot identify enough sampling sites with premise plumbing made of lead and/or served by lead service lines to meet the minimum number of sites required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section must still collect samples from every available site, in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, containing premise plumbing made of lead and/or served by a lead service line and collect the remaining samples in accordance with the tiering requirements under paragraph (a)(4).


(4) Sampling sites must be selected from the highest tier available (Tier 1 is the highest tier and Tier 5 is the lowest tier). Sites are available unless a customer refuses to participate in sampling or a system has made at least two outreach attempts at a site and has not received a response. The number of customer refusals and non-responses for compliance sampling during each tap sampling period must be submitted to the State in accordance with the requirements at § 141.90(a)(2)(viii). Systems may continue conducting outreach at sites considered unavailable and may subsequently add such sites to the site sample plan for any reason, such as receiving a service initiation request from a new property owner or occupant or receiving a new consumer request for sampling. A system without a large enough number of sites from a higher tier to meet the number of sites required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section may sample sites from the next highest tier. For water systems where Tier 2 sites comprise at least 20 percent of the residential structures served by the community water system, Tier 2 sites may be sampled even when Tier 1 sites are available.


(i) Tier 1 sampling sites are single-family structures with premise plumbing made of lead and/or served by a lead service line.


(ii) Tier 2 sampling sites are buildings, including multiple-family residences, with premise plumbing made of lead and/or served by a lead service line.


(iii) Tier 3 sampling sites are sites that are served by a lead connector. Tier 3 sites are also sites served by a galvanized service line or containing galvanized premise plumbing identified as ever having been downstream of a lead service line. Tier 3 for community water systems only includes single-family structures.


(iv) Tier 4 sampling sites are sites that contain copper premise plumbing with lead solder installed before the effective date of the State's applicable lead ban. Tier 4 for community water systems only includes single-family structures.


(v) Tier 5 sampling sites are sites that are representative of sites throughout the distribution system. For purpose of this paragraph (a), a representative site is a site in which the plumbing materials used at that site would be commonly found at other sites served by the water system.


(b) *Sample collection protocol.* (1) Except for samples described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, all tap samples collected for analysis of lead and copper must be one liter in volume and have stood motionless in the plumbing system and/or service line of each sampling site for at least six hours. Bottles used to collect samples for analysis must be wide-mouth, one-liter sample bottles, as defined at § 141.2. Samples from residential housing must be collected from an interior kitchen or bathroom sink cold-water tap. Samples from a nonresidential building must be collected at an interior cold-water tap from which water is typically drawn for human consumption. Samples may be collected by the system, or the system may allow members of the public to collect samples after providing instructions for collecting samples in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1). Sample collection instructions cannot direct the sample collector to remove or clean the aerator or flush taps prior to the start of the minimum six-hour stagnation period. To protect members of the public from injury due to handling nitric acid, samples may be acidified up to 14 days after the sample is collected. After acidification to resolubilize the metals, the sample must stand in the original container for a period of time, as specified by the approved EPA method in § 141.23 selected for sample analysis. If a system allows members of the public to sample, the system cannot challenge the accuracy of the sampling results based on alleged sample collection errors.


(i) The first-liter sample must be analyzed for lead and copper at sample sites where both contaminants are required to be monitored. At sample sites where only lead is required to be monitored, the first-liter sample may be analyzed for only lead.


(ii) For sites served by a lead service line, which fall under Tier 1 and Tier 2, an additional fifth-liter sample must be collected at the same time as the first-liter sample and must be analyzed for lead. To collect a first-liter-and-fifth-liter-paired sample, systems must collect tap water in five consecutively numbered, wide-mouth, one-liter sample bottles after the water has stood motionless in the plumbing of each sampling site, including the lead service line, for at least six hours without flushing the tap prior to sample collection. Systems must collect samples starting with the first sample bottle and then fill each subsequently numbered bottle in consecutive order until the final bottle is filled, with the water running constantly while the samples are being collected. In this sequence, the first-liter sample is the first sample collected and the fifth-liter sample is the final sample collected.


(iii) State-approved samples collected pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section may include samples with stagnation periods less than six hours, but must meet all the other sample collection criteria in this paragraph (b)(1), including being one-liter in volume using a wide-mouth bottle and collected at an interior tap from which water is typically drawn for human consumption.


(iv) Systems may use different sample volumes and/or different sample collection procedures when they collect follow-up samples for Distribution System and Site Assessment under § 141.82(j)(2) and consumer-requested samples under § 141.85(c) to assess the source of lead. Consumer-requested samples must be collected in accordance with § 141.85(c). Systems must submit these sample results to the State in accordance with § 141.90(a)(2)(i) and (g).


(2) Systems must sample at sites listed in the site sample plan. Additionally, systems must prioritize sampling at the same sites that were sampled in the previous tap sampling period. If such a site no longer qualifies under the tiering criteria or if, for reasons beyond the control of the water system, the water system cannot gain access to a sampling site in order to collect a tap sample, the system must collect the tap sample from another site in its site sample plan that meets the original tiering criteria, where such a site exists. Systems must report any change in sites from the previous tap sampling period, and include an explanation of why sampling sites have changed, as required in § 141.90(a)(2)(v). If changes are needed to the site sample plan, systems must submit their updated site sample plan, as required under § 141.90(a)(1)(i), before the start of the next tap sampling period conducted by the system.


(3) A non-transient non-community water system, or a community water system that meets the criteria of § 141.85(b)(8), that does not have enough sites with taps from which first-liter samples or first-liter-and-fifth-liter-paired samples meeting the six-hour minimum stagnation time can be collected, as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may apply to the State in writing to request approval to substitute first-liter or first-liter-and-fifth-liter-paired samples that do not meet the six-hour minimum stagnation time. Such systems must collect as many first-liter or first-liter-and-fifth-liter-paired samples from interior taps used for human consumption as possible towards meeting the minimum number of sites required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section. For the remaining samples to meet the minimum number required, systems must identify sampling times and locations that would likely result in the longest standing times. The State has the discretion to waive the requirement for prior State approval of sites not meeting the six-hour stagnation time either through State regulation or written notification to the system.


(c) *Standard monitoring.* Standard monitoring consists of six-month tap monitoring periods that begin on January 1 and July 1.


(1) *Standard monitoring sites.* During a standard tap monitoring period, a water system must collect at least one sample from the number of sites in the following table 1 to this paragraph (c)(1). Standard monitoring sites must be selected in accordance with the sampling tiers identified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Criteria for standard monitoring.* The following systems must conduct standard monitoring for at least two consecutive tap monitoring periods beginning January 1 or July 1, whichever is sooner, following the tap sampling period in which the criterion is met. Systems may then reduce monitoring in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(i) All water systems with lead or galvanized requiring replacement service lines in their inventories as of November 1, 2027, including those deemed optimized under § 141.81(b)(3), must conduct standard monitoring in the first six-month tap monitoring period following November 1, 2027, unless the system has, before or by that date, met all the following criteria:


(A) The system conducts compliance monitoring of sites that meet the correct priority tiering targeting sites served by lead and galvanized requiring replacement service lines in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section;


(B) The system collects samples in accordance with all sample collection requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section; and


(C) The system collects either first-liter samples or first-liter-and-fifth-liter- paired samples in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) Any water system whose most recent 90th percentile lead and/or copper results as of November 1, 2027, exceeds the lead and/or copper action level must conduct standard monitoring in the first six-month tap monitoring period following November 1, 2027.


(iii) Systems meeting any of the following criteria:


(A) Any water system that exceeds a lead or copper action level.


(B) Any system that fails to operate at or above the minimum value or within the range of values for the optimal water quality parameters designated by the State under § 141.82(f) for more than nine days in any tap monitoring period as specified in § 141.87.


(C) Any water system that becomes a large water system without corrosion control treatment or any large water system without corrosion control treatment whose lead 90th percentile exceeds the lead practical quantitation limit of 0.005 mg/L.


(D) Any water system that installs OCCT or re-optimizes OCCT as a result of exceeding the lead or copper action level, or any water system that adjusts OCCT following a Distribution System and Site Assessment. Systems conducting standard monitoring under this criterion must continue standard monitoring until the State designates new optimal water quality parameters, at which point systems must comply with paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(E) of this section.


(E) Any water system for which the State has designated new values for optimal water quality parameters under § 141.82.


(F) Any water system that installs source water treatment pursuant to § 141.83(a)(3).


(G) Any water system that has notified the State in writing in accordance with § 141.90(a)(4) of an upcoming addition of a new source or long-term change in treatment, unless the State determines that the addition of the new source or long-term change in treatment is not significant and, therefore, does not warrant more frequent monitoring.


(H) Any water system without lead or galvanized requiring replacement service lines in its inventory that notifies the State under § 141.90(e)(4)(ii) of any subsequently discovered lead or galvanized requiring replacement service lines in its distribution system, unless the system replaces all the discovered service lines before the start of the next tap monitoring period.


(d) *Reduced monitoring based on 90th percentile levels.* Reduced monitoring refers to an annual or triennial tap monitoring period. Each annual or triennial tap monitoring period includes one tap sampling period. The reduced monitoring frequency is based on the 90th percentile value for the water system.


(1) *Reduced monitoring sites.* During a reduced tap monitoring period, a water system must collect at least one sample from the number of sites specified in table 2 to this paragraph (d)(1), unless otherwise specified. Reduced monitoring sites must be selected in accordance with the sampling tiers identified in paragraph (a) of this section. Lead and copper sampling results collected from point-of-use sites under § 141.93(c)(1) cannot be used to meet the criteria for reduced monitoring under this section. States may specify the locations of sample sites when a system is conducting reduced monitoring.


(2) *Criteria for reduced monitoring.* Systems are eligible for reduced monitoring if they meet all the requirements of this section, including collecting at least the minimum number of samples required, for at least two consecutive tap monitoring periods. The State may require an eligible system to conduct more frequent monitoring.


(i) *Annual monitoring for any system size.* Any system that does not exceed the lead and copper action levels and, for systems with State-designated OWQPs, also maintains the range of optimal water quality parameters designated by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f), for two consecutive six-month tap monitoring periods may reduce the monitoring frequency to annual monitoring. Systems with an annual tap monitoring period must sample at least the standard number of sampling sites for lead in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and at least the reduced number of sites for copper as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Prior to conducting annual monitoring, systems must receive a written determination from the State approving annual monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. For systems that reduce to annual monitoring, the first annual tap monitoring period must begin no later than six months following the last tap monitoring period.


(ii) *Triennial monitoring for small and medium water systems.* Any small or medium water system that does not exceed the lead and copper action levels and, for systems with State-designated OWQPs, also maintains the range of optimal water quality parameters designated by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f), during three consecutive years of monitoring, including monitoring conducted at both standard and annual frequencies (standard monitoring completed during both six-month periods of a calendar year is considered one year of monitoring), may reduce the monitoring frequency to triennial monitoring. Systems on triennial monitoring must sample at least the reduced number of sites for lead and copper in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Prior to conducting triennial monitoring, systems must receive a written determination from the State approving triennial monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. For systems that reduce to triennial monitoring, the first triennial tap monitoring period must immediately follow the last annual monitoring period, and the first triennial sampling period must begin no later than three calendar years after the last calendar year in which the system sampled.


(iii) *Triennial monitoring for any system size.* Any water system that demonstrates for two consecutive tap monitoring periods that its 90th percentile lead level, calculated under § 141.80(c)(3), is less than or equal to 0.005 mg/L, the 90th percentile copper level, calculated under § 141.80(c)(3), is less than or equal to 0.65 mg/L and, for systems with State-designated OWQPs, also maintains the range of optimal water quality parameters designated by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f), may reduce the monitoring frequency to triennial monitoring. Systems on triennial monitoring must sample at least the reduced number of sites for lead and copper in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Prior to conducting triennial monitoring, systems must receive a written determination from the State approving triennial monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. For systems that reduce to triennial monitoring, the first triennial tap monitoring period must immediately follow the last monitoring period, and the first triennial tap sampling period must begin no later than three calendar years after the last calendar year in which the system sampled.


(3) *Tap sampling period under reduced monitoring.* The tap sampling period for systems on reduced monitoring must occur within the months of June, July, August, or September, unless the State has approved a different tap sampling period in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. Only systems on reduced monitoring can monitor during a tap sampling period that is shorter than the tap monitoring period.


(i) The State may approve a different tap sampling period for systems collecting samples on reduced monitoring. An alternative tap sampling period approved by the State must be a continuous period of time no longer than four consecutive months, must occur entirely within one calendar year, and must represent a time of normal operation where the highest levels of lead are most likely to occur. For a non-transient non-community water system that does not operate during the months of June through September and for which the period of normal operation where the highest levels of lead are most likely to occur is not known, the State must designate a period that represents normal operation for the system.


(ii) Systems that receive State-approval for an alternate tap sampling period under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section and have been sampling in the months of June through September must complete their next tap sampling period no later than 21 months, if on annual monitoring, or no later than 45 months, if on triennial monitoring, following the end of the previous tap sampling period.


(iii) Systems with waivers granted pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section that have been collecting samples during the months of June through September and receive State approval to alter their sampling period as per paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section must collect their next round of samples before the end of the next nine-year period.


(e) *Inclusion of lead and copper tap samples for calculation of the 90th percentile.* Water systems and the State must consider the results of any sampling conducted in addition to the minimum number of samples required in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, as applicable, in making any determinations (*i.e.,* calculating the 90th percentile lead or copper level in accordance with § 141.80(c)(3)) under this subpart if the samples meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Consumer-requested sampling conducted in accordance with § 141.85(c) must be considered if the sample meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b). If multiple samples from the same site, taken during the same tap sampling period, meet the requirements of this section for consideration of the 90th percentile calculation, only the highest value from each site can be considered, except for systems under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(1) Water systems sampling at one or more Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 sites in a tap sampling period that are unable to collect the minimum number of samples required in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section from Tier 1 or 2 sites must consider the lead and copper values from the next highest tier available in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If a water system has sufficient samples after including the samples from the next highest available tier to meet the minimum number of samples required in paragraph (c) or (d), the system may not consider additional samples from other available lower tiers. Systems (or the State) must calculate the 90th percentile lead and copper values in accordance with § 141.80(c)(3)(iii) using a total number of samples equal to the minimum number of samples required in paragraph (c) or (d). Systems must submit all additional sampling results to the State that were not used in the 90th percentile calculation.


(2) Systems (or the State when the State is calculating the 90th percentile) cannot include samples collected as part of Distribution System and Site Assessment under § 141.82(j)(2) in the 90th percentile calculation.


(3) Systems (or the State when the State is calculating the 90th percentile) cannot include follow-up samples collected as a result of monitoring after service line replacement under § 141.84(h) in the 90th percentile calculation.


(f) *Invalidation of lead and copper tap samples used in the calculation of the 90th percentile.* A sample invalidated under this paragraph (f) does not count towards determining lead or copper 90th percentile levels under § 141.80(c)(3) or towards meeting the minimum monitoring requirements of paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. The system must report the results of all samples to the State and all supporting documentation for samples the system believes should be invalidated.


(1) The State may invalidate a lead or copper tap water sample if at least one of the following conditions is met:


(i) The laboratory establishes that improper sample analysis caused erroneous results.


(ii) The State determines that a sample collected for compliance purposes under this section, that is not an additional sample collected under paragraph (e) of this section, was taken from a site that did not meet the site selection criteria under paragraph (a) of this section, such as when sites of a higher tier were still available.


(iii) The State determines the sample was collected in a manner that did not meet the sample collection protocol under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(iv) The sample container was damaged in transit.


(v) There is a substantial reason to believe that the sample was subject to tampering.


(2) To invalidate a sample under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the State must document in writing both the decision and the rationale for the decision. States may not invalidate a sample solely on the grounds that a follow-up sample result is higher or lower than that of the original sample.


(3) The water system must collect replacement samples for any samples invalidated under this section if, after the invalidation of one or more samples, the system has too few samples to meet the minimum requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (d)(1) of this section. Any such replacement samples must be taken as soon as possible, but no later than 20 days after the date the State notifies the system of an invalidated sample or by the end of the tap sampling period, whichever occurs later. Replacement samples taken after the end of the applicable tap sampling period can only be used to meet the monitoring requirements of the applicable tap monitoring period in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section and not a subsequent tap monitoring period. The replacement samples must be taken at the same locations as the invalidated samples, except when the sample is invalidated due to an error in meeting the site selection criteria under paragraph (a) of this section, or a system cannot gain access for sampling. The replacement samples must then be taken at locations that meet the site selection criteria other than those locations already used for sampling during the tap monitoring period.


(g) *Monitoring waivers for systems serving 3,300 or fewer persons.* Any water system serving 3,300 or fewer persons that meets the criteria of this paragraph (g) may apply, in writing, to the State to reduce the frequency of monitoring for lead and/or copper to once every nine years. The system must meet the materials criteria specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section and the monitoring criteria specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. Systems meeting only the criteria for lead may apply for a lead waiver, systems meeting only the criteria for copper may apply for a copper waiver, and systems meeting the criteria for both lead and copper may apply for a full waiver.


(1) *Materials criteria.* The system must demonstrate that its distribution system and service lines and all drinking water supply plumbing, including plumbing conveying drinking water within all residences and buildings connected to the system, are free of lead-containing materials and/or copper-containing materials, as those terms are defined in this paragraph (g)(1), as follows:


(i) *Lead.* To qualify for a lead waiver, the water system must certify and provide supporting documentation to the State that the system, including the distribution system and all premise plumbing, is free of all lead-containing materials, as follows:


(A) It contains no plastic pipes which contain lead plasticizers, or plastic service lines which contain lead plasticizers; and


(B) It is free of lead service lines, galvanized requiring replacement service lines, lead connectors, lead pipes, lead soldered pipe joints, and leaded brass or bronze alloy fittings and fixtures, unless such fittings and fixtures meet the specifications of any standard established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 300g-6(e) (SDWA section 1417(e)).


(ii) *Copper.* To qualify for a copper waiver, the water system must certify and provide supporting documentation to the State that the system contains no copper service lines or premise plumbing.


(2) *Monitoring criteria.* The system must have completed at least one six-month round of standard tap water monitoring for lead and copper at sites approved by the State and from the number of sites required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section and demonstrate that the 90th percentile levels for any and all rounds of monitoring conducted since the system became free of all lead-containing and/or copper-containing materials, as appropriate, meet the following criteria.


(i) *Lead levels.* To qualify for a lead waiver, the system must demonstrate that the 90th percentile lead level does not exceed 0.005 mg/L.


(ii) *Copper levels.* To qualify for a copper waiver, the system must demonstrate that the 90th percentile copper level does not exceed 0.65 mg/L.


(3) *State approval of waiver application.* The State must notify the system of its waiver determination, in writing, setting forth the basis of its decision and any condition(s) of an approved waiver. As a condition of a waiver, the State may require the system to perform specific activities (*e.g.,* limited monitoring, periodic outreach to customers to remind them to avoid installing materials that might void the waiver) to avoid lead or copper concentrations of concern in tap water. The water system must continue monitoring for lead and copper at the tap as required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, as appropriate, until it receives written notification from the State that a waiver has been approved.


(4) *Monitoring frequency for systems with waivers.* (i) A system with a full waiver must conduct tap monitoring for lead and copper in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section at least once every nine years. A system with a full waiver must provide the State with the materials certification specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section for both lead and copper when submitting their tap sampling results to the State. Samples collected every nine years must be collected no later than every ninth calendar year.


(ii) A system with a lead waiver or copper waiver must conduct tap monitoring for only the waived contaminant in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section at least once every nine years. A system with a lead waiver or copper waiver must provide the State with the materials certification specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section for only the waived contaminant when submitting their tap sampling results to the State. Also, a system must continue to monitor for the non-waived contaminant in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, as appropriate.


(iii) Any water system with a waiver must notify the State in writing in accordance with § 141.90(a)(4) about any addition of a new source water or long-term change in treatment, as described in that section. The State may add or modify waiver conditions (*e.g.,* require recertification that the system is free of lead-containing and/or copper-containing materials, require additional round(s) of monitoring), if the State deems any modifications are necessary to address treatment or source water changes at the system.


(iv) If a system with a waiver becomes aware that the system is no longer free of lead-containing or copper-containing materials, as appropriate (*e.g.,* as a result of new construction or repairs), the system must notify the State in writing no later than 60 days after becoming aware of such a change.


(5) *Discontinuation of eligibility.* A system with a waiver where any of the following conditions occurs is not allowed to continue monitoring under its waiver:


(i) A system with a full waiver or a lead waiver no longer satisfies the materials criteria of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section or has a 90th percentile lead level greater than 0.005 mg/L.


(ii) A system with a full waiver or a copper waiver no longer satisfies the materials criteria of paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section or has a 90th percentile copper level greater than 0.65 mg/L.


(iii) The State notifies the system, in writing, that the waiver has been revoked, setting forth the basis of its decision.


(6) *Requirements following waiver revocation.* A system whose waiver is revoked may re-apply for a waiver when it meets the appropriate materials criteria and monitoring criteria of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. A system whose waiver is revoked by the State is subject to the following corrosion control treatment and lead and copper tap water monitoring requirements:


(i) If the system exceeds the lead and/or copper action level, the system must implement or re-optimize OCCT in accordance with the deadlines specified in § 141.81, and any other applicable requirements of this subpart.


(ii) If the system is at or below both the lead and copper action levels, the system must monitor for lead and copper at the tap no less frequently than once every three years using the reduced number of sampling sites specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(7) *Pre-existing waivers.* Waivers approved by the State in writing prior to the compliance date specified in § 141.80(a)(3) are still in effect if the system has demonstrated that it is both free of lead-containing and copper-containing materials, as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section and that its 90th percentile lead levels and 90th percentile copper levels meet the criteria of paragraph (g)(2) of this section, and the system does not meet the waiver ineligibility criteria of paragraph (g)(5) of this section.


(h) *Publicly accessible tap monitoring results used in the 90th percentile calculation.* Unless done by the State, all water systems must make the tap monitoring results, including data used in the 90th percentile calculation under § 141.80(c)(3), publicly accessible within 60 days of the end of the tap sampling period. Under this paragraph (h), water systems are not required to make the addresses of tap sampling sites publicly accessible.


(1) Large water systems must make the tap monitoring results and associated data publicly accessible in a digital format.


(2) Small and medium water systems must make the tap monitoring results and associated data publicly accessible in either a print or digital format.


(3) Water systems must certify to the State, in writing, compliance with this paragraph (h) in accordance with § 141.90(a)(2)(iii) and must retain monitoring data in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements under § 141.91.





---

[N] [89 FR 86647, Oct. 30, 2024]




