# § 1306.13   Employee response.

(a) *Voluntary repayment agreement.* An employee may submit a request to enter into a written repayment agreement of the debt in lieu of offset. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 1306.12 to the official identified in § 1306.12(a)(8). The agreement must be in writing signed by both the employee and the appropriate official within MCC. Acceptance of such an agreement is discretionary with the Agency. An employee who enters into such an agreement may, nevertheless, seek a waiver under § 1306.18.


(b) *Reconsideration.* (1) An employee may seek a reconsideration of MCC's determination regarding the existence and/or amount of the debt. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 1306.12 to the official identified in 1306.12(a)(8). Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit a detailed statement of reasons for reconsideration that must be accompanied by supporting documentation.


(2) An employee may seek a reconsideration of MCC's proposed offset schedule. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 1306.12 to the official identified in § 1306.12(a)(8). Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit an alternative repayment schedule accompanied by a detailed statement, supported by documentation, evidencing financial hardship resulting from MCC's proposed schedule. Acceptance of the request is at MCC's discretion. MCC will notify the employee in writing of its decision concerning the request to reduce the rate of an involuntary deduction.




