# § 65.47   Recordkeeping provisions.

(a) *Retention time.* Each owner or operator of a storage vessel subject to this subpart shall meet the requirements of § 65.4, except the record specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be kept as long as the storage vessel is in operation. 


(b) *Vessel dimensions and capacity.* Each owner or operator of a storage vessel subject to this subpart shall keep readily accessible records showing the dimensions of the storage vessel and an analysis of the capacity of the storage vessel. 


(c) *Inspection results.* The owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) For each IFR or EFR inspection required by § 65.43(c)(1) and (2), or § 65.44(c)(10), respectively, a record containing the following information, as appropriate: 


(i) In the event that no IFR type A failure, IFR type B failure, or EFR failure is observed, a record showing that the inspection was performed. The record shall identify the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed, the date the storage vessel was inspected, and references indicating which items were inspected. 


(ii) In the event that an IFR type A failure, IFR type B failure, or EFR failure is observed, a record that identifies the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed, the date the storage vessel was inspected, a description of the failure and of the repair made, the date the vessel was emptied (if applicable), and the date that the repair was made. As specified in § 65.48(b)(1), the owner or operator shall include this record in the periodic report. 


(2) For each EFR seal gap measurement required by § 65.44(c)(1), (2), or (3), a record describing the results of the measurement. The record shall identify the vessel on which the measurement was performed, shall include the date of the measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 65.44(c)(7) and (8), and shall meet the following two additional requirements, as appropriate: 


(i) In the event that the seal gap measurements do conform to the specifications in § 65.44(c)(7) and (8), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 65.48(b)(2)(i) in the periodic report. 


(ii) In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 65.44(c)(7) and (8), the owner or operator shall also keep a description of the repairs that were made, the date the repairs were made, and the date the storage vessel was emptied and shall include a report of the seal gap measurement results in the periodic report as specified in § 65.48(b)(2)(ii). 


(d) *Emptying and repairing extension.* The owner or operator who elects to utilize an extension in emptying a storage vessel for purposes of repair shall prepare by the initiation of the extension the following documentation, as appropriate, of the decision to utilize an extension: 


(1) For an extension pursuant to § 65.43(d)(1) or § 65.44(d)(1), a description of the failure, documentation that alternative storage capacity is unavailable, and a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical. As specified in § 65.48(b)(1)(i), the owner or operator shall include this information in the periodic report. 


(2) For an extension pursuant to § 65.44(c)(9), an explanation of why it was unsafe to perform the inspection or seal gap measurement, documentation that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and a schedule of actions that will ensure that the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical. As specified in § 65.48(b)(3), the owner or operator shall include this information in the periodic report. 


(e) *Floating roof set on its legs.* The owner or operator shall maintain a record for each storage vessel subject to § 65.43(b)(2) and § 65.44(b)(2) identifying the date when the floating roof was set on its legs and the date when the roof was refloated. The record shall also indicate whether this was a continuous operation. 




