# ยง 60.161   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part. 


(a) *Primary copper smelter* means any installation or any intermediate process engaged in the production of copper from copper sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques. 


(b) *Dryer* means any facility in which a copper sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate a portion of the moisture from the charge, provided less than 5 percent of the sulfur contained in the charge is eliminated in the facility. 


(c) *Roaster* means any facility in which a copper sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate a significant portion (5 percent or more) of the sulfur contained in the charge. 


(d) *Calcine* means the solid materials produced by a roaster. 


(e) *Smelting* means processing techniques for the melting of a copper sulfide ore concentrate or calcine charge leading to the formation of separate layers of molten slag, molten copper, and/or copper matte. 


(f) *Smelting furnace* means any vessel in which the smelting of copper sulfide ore concentrates or calcines is performed and in which the heat necessary for smelting is provided by an electric current, rapid oxidation of a portion of the sulfur contained in the concentrate as it passes through an oxidizing atmosphere, or the combustion of a fossil fuel. 


(g) *Copper converter* means any vessel to which copper matte is charged and oxidized to copper. 


(h) *Sulfuric acid plant* means any facility producing sulfuric acid by the contact process. 


(i) *Fossil fuel* means natural gas, petroleum, coal, and any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from such materials for the purpose of creating useful heat. 


(j) *Reverberatory smelting furnace* means any vessel in which the smelting of copper sulfide ore concentrates or calcines is performed and in which the heat necessary for smelting is provided primarily by combustion of a fossil fuel. 


(k) *Total smelter charge* means the weight (dry basis) of all copper sulfide ore concentrates processed at a primary copper smelter, plus the weight of all other solid materials introduced into the roasters and smelting furnaces at a primary copper smelter, except calcine, over a one-month period. 


(l) *High level of volatile impurities* means a total smelter charge containing more than 0.2 weight percent arsenic, 0.1 weight percent antimony, 4.5 weight percent lead or 5.5 weight percent zinc, on a dry basis. 




