# § 350.305   Compatibility review: Allowable variances from the FMCSRs.

The following variances are allowed for State laws and regulations applicable to intrastate commerce and are not subject to Federal jurisdiction:


(a) *General.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a State may exempt a CMV from all or part of its laws or regulations applicable to intrastate commerce, if the gross vehicle weight rating, gross combination weight rating, gross vehicle weight, or gross combination weight does not equal or exceed 11,801 kilograms (26,001 pounds).


(2) A State may not exempt a CMV from laws or regulations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the vehicle:


(i) Transports hazardous materials requiring a placard; or


(ii) Is designed or used to transport 16 or more people, including the driver.


(b) *Non-permissible exemption—Type of business operation.* (1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section and § 350.307, State laws and regulations applicable to intrastate commerce may not grant exemptions based on the type of transportation being performed (*e.g.,* for-hire carrier, private carrier).


(2) A State may retain those exemptions from its motor carrier safety laws and regulations that were in effect before April 1988, are still in effect, and apply to specific industries operating in intrastate commerce, provided the scope of the original exemption has not been amended.


(c) *Non-permissible exemption—Distance.* (1) Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, State laws and regulations applicable to intrastate commerce must not include exemptions based on the distance a motor carrier or driver operates from the work reporting location.


(2) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to distance exemptions contained in the FMCSRs.


(d) *Hours of service.* State hours-of-service limitations applied to intrastate transportation may vary to the extent that they allow:


(1) A 12-hour driving limit, provided that a driver of a CMV is not permitted to drive after having been on duty more than 16 hours;


(2) Driving prohibitions for drivers who have been on duty 70 hours in 7 consecutive days or 80 hours in 8 consecutive days; or


(3) A 150-air mile radius or the air mile radius under § 395.1(e)(1)(i) of this subchapter, whichever is greater.


(e) *Age of CMV driver.* All intrastate CMV drivers must be at least 18 years of age.


(f) *Driver physical conditions.* (1) Intrastate drivers who do not meet the physical qualification standards in § 391.41 of this subchapter may continue to be qualified to operate a CMV in intrastate commerce if:


(i) The driver was qualified under existing State law or regulation at the time the State adopted physical qualification standards consistent with the Federal standards in § 391.41 of this subchapter;


(ii) The otherwise non-qualifying medical or physical condition has not substantially worsened; and


(iii) No other non-qualifying medical or physical condition has developed.


(2) The State may adopt or continue programs granting variances to intrastate drivers with medical or physical conditions that would otherwise be non-qualifying under the State's equivalent of § 391.41 of this subchapter if the variances are based on sound medical judgment combined with appropriate performance standards ensuring no adverse effect on safety.


(3) A State that has physical qualification standards or variances continued in effect or adopted by the State under this paragraph for drivers operating CMVs in intrastate commerce has the option not to adopt laws and regulations that establish a separate registry of medical examiners trained and qualified to apply such physical qualification standards or variances.


(g) *Additional variances.* A State may apply to the Administrator for a variance from the FMCSRs not otherwise covered by this section for intrastate commerce. The variance will be granted only if the State satisfactorily demonstrates that the State law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety:


(1) Achieves substantially the same purpose as the similar Federal regulation;


(2) Does not apply to interstate commerce; and


(3) Is not likely to have an adverse impact on safety.



---

[N] [85 FR 37796, June 24, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 90618, Nov. 18, 2024]




