# § 112.2   Application of this part.

(a) This part applies to all recipients of Federal financial assistance administered by the Small Business Administration. (See appendix A) 


(b) The term *Federal financial assistance* includes: (1) Grants and loans of Federal funds; (2) the grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property; (3) the detail of Federal personnel; (4) the sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration, or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient; and (5) any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.


(c) This part does not apply to financial assistance extended by way of insurance or guarantee.


(d) The terms *applicant* and *recipient* mean, respectively, one who applies for and one who receives any of the financial assistance under any of the statutes referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The term *recipient* also shall be deemed to include *subrecipients* of SBA financial assistance, i.e., concerns which secondarily receive financial assistance from the primary recipients of such financial assistance. 


(e) The terms *program or activity* and *program* mean all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance: 


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or 


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government; 


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or 


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system; 


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship— 


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or 


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or 


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or 


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (e)(1),(2), or (3) of this section.



---

[N] [30 FR 298, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17934, July 5, 1973; 50 FR 1441 Jan. 11, 1985; 68 FR 51348, 51349, Aug. 26, 2003]




