# § 12.205   Motions.

(a) *In general.* Motions for relief not otherwise specifically provided for in this subpart (§§ 12.200 through 12.210), other than discovery-related motions and motions for extensions of time and similar procedural orders, shall not be allowed. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subpart, all motions permitted under the provisions of this subpart shall be directed to the Administrative Judge prior to the filing of the initial decision, and to the Commission after the initial decision has been filed. Motions for extensions of time and similar procedural orders may be acted upon at any time, without awaiting a response thereto. Any party adversely affected by such action may request reconsideration, vacation or modification of such action.


(b) *Answer to motions.* Any party may serve and file a written response to a motion within ten (10) days after service of the motion, or within such longer or shorter period as is established by the provisions of this part, or as the Administrative Judge or the Commission may direct.


(c) *Dismissal*—(1) *By the Administrative Judge.* An Administrative Judge, acting upon their own motion, may:


(i) Dismiss the entire proceeding without prejudice to counterclaims, if the Administrative Judge finds that the matters alleged in the complaint fail to state a claim cognizable in reparations; or


(ii) Order dismissal of any claim, counterclaim, or party from the proceeding if the Administrative Judge finds, after review of the record, that such claim or counterclaim (by itself or as applied to any party) is not cognizable in reparations.


(2) *Motion for dismissal by a party.* Any party who believes that grounds exist for dismissal of the entire complaint, or of any claim therein, or of any counterclaim or party from the proceeding, may file a motion for dismissal specifying the claims or parties to be dismissed and the reasons therefor. Upon consideration of the whole record, the Administrative Judge may grant or deny such motion, in whole or in part.


(3) *Content and effect of order of dismissal.* Any order of dismissal entered pursuant to this rule shall contain a brief statement of the findings and conclusions which serve as the basis for the order. An order of dismissal of the entire proceeding pursuant to this rule shall have the effect of an initial decision (see § 12.213(d)), and may be appealed to the Commission in accordance with the requirements of § 12.401 of these rules.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64357, Nov. 18, 2021]






