# § 52.999   Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original “The Louisiana Air Control Commission Implementation Plan” and all revisions submitted by Louisiana that were federally approved prior to July 1, 1998.


(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) Certification that public hearings were held on the State's implementation plan was submitted on February 28, 1972. (Non-regulatory)


(2) Response to comments by Region VI on the plan was transmitted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on May 8, 1972. (Non-regulatory)


(3) Revisions to Louisiana Air Control Regulations 6, 8, 18, 19, 22, A22, 27, 28, control strategy for photochemical oxidants-hydrocarbons, prevention of air pollution emergency episodes, source surveillance, and procedures for submission and approval and compliance schedules were submitted by the Governor on July 17, 1972.


(4) Revisions concerning the control strategy for photochemical oxidants and hydrocarbon for Region 106 was submitted by the Governor on March 30, 1973. (Regulatory)


(5) Revision of Section 6.1 of the State air control regulations was submitted by the Governor on April 25, 1973.


(6) A revision concerning the control strategy for particulate matter for the Southern Louisiana-Southeast Texas AQCR was submitted by the Governor on January 2, 1973.


(7) Variances to Emission Limiting Regulations adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on October 29, 1975, December 12, 1975, and April 6, 1976, and submitted by the Governor on April 22, 1976.


(8) Commission Orders creditable as emission offsets for the GM Plant in Shreveport were submitted by the Governor on January 25, 1978 as amendments to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan.


(9) A proposed dedesignation of the Shreveport area as an AQMA for particulate matter was submitted by the Governor on December 9, 1977.


(10) An administrative revision of the Air Quality Surveillance Network was submitted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on April 3, 1978. (Non regulatory)


(11) Revisions to Regulation 19.0, Emission Standards for Particulate Matter, as adopted on November 30, 1977, were submitted by the Governor on December 9, 1977.


(12) Minor changes and administrative revisions to regulations 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0, 13.0, 14.0, 15.0, 16.0, and 17.0 of the Louisiana SIP were submitted by the Governor on December 9, 1977.


(13) A variance to Regulation 19.5 for Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation at Norco, Louisiana was submitted by the Governor on August 31, 1978.


(14) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 18.1, 18.3, 18.5, 18.6-18.6.2, 18.7, 20.1-20.8, 21.1-21.6.4, 23.0-23.4.2, 24.1-24.5, 24.6.2, 24.7-24.7.3, 24.8, 25.0-25.6.2, 26.0-26.2, 26.4-26.8.2, 27.0-27.5.4, 28.0-28.6.2 and 30.0, as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on November 30, 1977, were submitted by the Governor on December 9, 1977.


(15) Revisions to the plan for attainment of standards for ozone (Part D requirements) were submitted by the Governor on April 30, 1979.


(16) Evidence of notice and public hearing for the April 30, 1979 plan was submitted by the Governor on June 20, 1979.


(17) Emission inventory information, emission reduction information, a certification of the lack of major degreasing sources, and a commitment to adopt future regulations were submitted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on August 28, 1979 (non-regulatory).


(18) Schedule for the modification and submittal of regulations 22.6 and regulation 6.3.8 were submitted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on October 11, 1979 (non-regulatory).


(19) Regulations 22.17 and 22.18, adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on September 25, 1979 were submitted by the Governor on October 18, 1979.


(20) On January 10, 1980, the Governor submitted final revisions to the ambient monitoring portion of the plan.


(21) Revised Regulation 22.8(c) was submitted by the Governor on June 20, 1979. This regulation was adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on March 27, 1979.


(22) Revised Regulation 22.5 was submitted by the Governor on April 30, 1979. This regulation was adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on March 27, 1979. A second revision to Regulation 22.5 was submitted by the Governor on July 7, 1979, as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on June 26, 1979.


(23) Revised Regulations 6.3.8, 22.3, 22.6.1, 22.6.2, 22.10, and 22.12.4 were submitted by the Governor on December 10, 1979. These regulations were adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on November 27, 1979. A second revision to Regulation 6.3.8 was submitted by the Governor on October 23, 1980. The second revision was adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on September 25, 1980.


(24) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 24.6.1 and 24.7.4, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on March 27, 1979, were submitted by the Governor on April 30, 1979.


(25) Revised Regulations 22.9.2, 22.9.3(b), 22.19, 22.20, 22.21, 22.22 and 22.23 and revised Regulation 4.0 (i.e. sections 4.99 through 4.116) were adopted by the State on November 27, 1979 and submitted by the Governor on December 10, 1979; and revised Regulations 22.3 and 22.20.2 were adopted by the State on July 22, 1980 and submitted by the Governor on September 12, 1980.


(26) Revised Regulations 22.9.3(b), 22.20.3, and 22.23.7 were adopted by the State on December 11, 1980 and submitted by the Governor on January 12, 1981; revised Regulation 22.21.2(E) was adopted by the State on April 23, 1981 and submitted by the Governor on June 3, 1981; and, revised Regulation 22.19.2(B) was adopted by the State on June 25, 1981 and submitted by the Governor on July 22, 1981.


(27) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 6.1.1, 18.2, 18.4, 18.6.3, 19.5.1, 24.9.1, 24.9.2, 26.3.1, 26.3.2 and 51.11, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on September 25, 1980, were submitted by the Governor on October 23, 1980.


(28) Revisions to the plan for permit fee systems, interstate pollution abatement, public availability of emission data, maintenance of pay, permit public comment, and public notification of exceedances of the primary national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS), were submitted by the Governor on April 30, 1979. In addition, revised submittals for permit fee schedules were submitted on July 7, 1979; September 12, 1980; October 23, 1980; and January 12, 1981. The September 12, 1980 letter also included a new § 51.285 (a), (b) and (c). Finally, the State sent a notification letter on August 7, 1979, which corrected a typographical error in the maintenance of pay revision.


(29) A revision to the Air Control Regulations 22.9.3(d) as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on December 11, 1980, was submitted by the Governor on January 12, 1981.


(30) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 8.5.1, 22.3.1.1, 22.3.1.2, and 22.10, as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on April 23, 1981, were submitted by the Governor on June 3, 1981.


(31) A revision to the Air Control Regulation 22.9.3(a), as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on May 28, 1981, was submitted by the Governor on June 3, 1981.


(32) A revision to the Air Control Regulation 22.3.2, as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on July 23, 1981, was submitted by the Governor on August 17, 1981.


(33) The Louisiana State Implementation Plan for lead and Regulations for—the Control of Air Pollution from lead, 10.0-10.3 and 19A.0, were submitted to EPA on July 27, 1979, by the Governor of Louisiana as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on July 24, 1979. Letters of Clarification dated January 6, 1982, April 1, 1982 and May 4, 1982 also were submitted. No action is taken on the Baton Rouge area.


(34) Section 6.1 of Regulation 6.0 amended and adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on October 22, 1981, was submitted by the Governor on November 30, 1981.


(35) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 4.102, 4.110, 22.20.2 and 22.21.2(D), as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on December 11, 1980, were submitted by the Governor on January 12, 1981.


(36) [Reserved]


(37) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 4.14, 4.36, 6.6, 22.3.1.1, and 22.3.1.2, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on February 26, 1981, were submitted by the Governor on March 25, 1981.


(38) Revisions to the Air Control Regulations 17.13, 23.4.1.1 and 23.4.4, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on January 28, 1982, were submitted by the Governor on February 15, 1982.


(39) A revision to section 2210 of the Louisiana Air Control Law was submitted to EPA on March 10, 1982. The Section was renamed Section 1077 of the Environmental Affairs Act, by the Louisiana Legislature, and was effective January 1, 1980.


(40) The Louisiana State Implementation Plan for lead for the Baton Rouge area was submitted on July 27, 1979, with letters of clarification and revisions dated January 4, 1983, September 15, 1983, September 30, 1983. The final lead control plan was submitted in a letter dated October 31, 1983, as adopted by the Louisiana Air Control Commission on October 20, 1983.


(41) Revisions to sections 2.3, 3.1, 3.4, and 4.1 of the Rules and Regulations for the Fee System of the Air Quality Control Program, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on January 26, 1983, were submitted by the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources (now the Department of Environmental Quality), Air Quality Division, on November 17, 1983.


(42) Deletion of Air Control Regulation 14.0, and deletion of hydrocarbon guideline standard from Table 1, 1a, and 2, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on July 28, 1983, was submitted by the Governor on October 19, 1983.


(43) Revisions to the Air Control Regulation 22.22 as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on September 23, 1982, and submitted by the Governor on July 14, 1983.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Regulation 22.22.1(A) and 22.22.2(A) Letter dated July 14, 1983, from the State of Louisiana and which change the reference for the test methods from a CTG document to the Louisiana Air Quality Regulations Division's Source Test Manual. These regulations were adopted on September 23, 1982.


(44) On October 4, 1985, the Governor submitted a revision entitled, “Protection of Visibility for Mandatory Class I Federal Areas,” July 12, 1985. This submittal included new source review and visibility monitoring strategy as adopted by the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in October 1985.


(45) On August 14, 1985, the Governor of Louisiana submitted a Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Plan including Air Quality Regulations—Part V, (sections 90.1-90.19) as adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Environmental Quality on May 23, 1985. Air Quality Regulations—Part V provides authority for the State to implement the PSD program in certain areas of the State. Letters of commitment for air quality modeling (dated September 30, 1985) and Federal stack height and dispersion technique regulation (dated June 3, 1986) were submitted by the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana Air Quality Regulations—Part V, Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality, except that no provision of this part applies to Indian Reservations meaning any Federally recognized reservation established by Treaty, Agreement,Executive Order, or Act of Congress, as adopted on May 23, 1985.


(B) A letter from the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality dated September 30, 1985, which commits the Department to use only the EPA approved air quality models in accordance with the provisions of 40 CFR 51.24(1) [now 40 CFR 51.166(1)] and to submit a stack height and dispersion techniques SIP revision by April 8, 1986.


(C) A letter from the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality dated June 3, 1986, which certifies that the Department interprets the provisions of section 90.8 of Louisiana PSD regulations as having the same meaning as the Federal stack height and dispersion technique regulation, 40 CFR 51.1(hh)-(kk) [now 40 CFR 51.100(hh)-(kk)], promulgated by EPA in the _Federal Register_ of July 8, 1985, and that the State will apply, implement, and enforce these requirements in the PSD permitting process.


(D) A narrative explanation and additional requirements entitled “Prevention of Significant Deterioration Revisions to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan”.


(46) On January 6, 1988, the Governor of Louisiana submitted a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) that contained Air Quality Regulations, LAC 33: Part III, Section 921, Stack Heights, as adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Environmental Quality on December 20, 1987. Section 921, Stack Heights, enables the State to ensure that the degree of emission limitation required for the control of any air pollutant under its SIP is not affected by that portion of any stack height which exceeds GEP or by any other dispersion technique.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana Air Quality Regulations—LAC 33: Part III, Section 921, Stack Heights, as adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Environmental Quality on December 20, 1987.


(ii) Other material—none.


(47) A revision exempting four rural carbon black plants—Ashland Chemical, Louisa, LA; Cabot Corporation, Centerville, LA; Cabot Corporation, Ville Platte, LA; and Columbian Chemicals, Franklin, LA—from further controls on acetylene emissions as required under Louisiana Air Quality Regulation 22.8 received from the Governor on January 12, 1987, and amended May 13, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) A letter dated May 29, 1987, from Martha Madden, Secretary, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to the Governor of Louisiana approving the exemptions from further controls on acetylene emissions for the four rural carbon black plants and ordering each facility to maintain its emissions at or below the levels specified in the attached summary of emissions.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) A summary of VOC emissions for each of the four rural carbon black plants exempted from further controls on acetylene emissions under Louisiana Air Quality Regulation 22.8.


(48) Part II of the Visibility Protection Plan was submitted by the Governor on October 26, 1987.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revision entitled, “Louisiana State Implementation Plan Revision: Protection of Visibility: Proposed Part II Long-Term Strategy, October 26, 1987”. This submittal includes a visibility long-term strategy and general plan provisions as approved and adopted by the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality on October 26, 1987.


(B) Letter dated October 26, 1987, from Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ), to the Governor approving the SIP revision.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated June 16, 1988, from Administrator, Air Quality Division, LDEQ, to Chief, SIP/New Source Section (6T-AN), EPA Region 6, committing to make its three-year periodic review report available to the public as well as to EPA.


(49) The recodified and revised regulations of the Louisiana Administrative Code, Title 33, Part 3 (LAC:33:III) that were adopted by the State effective December 20, 1987, and submitted by the Governor by letters dated January 6, 1988, and October 4, 1988, for inclusion in the SIP. These regulations include LAC:33:III: Chapters 1, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 23, 56, 60, 63, and 65, except LAC:33:III:111 “Particulate matter,” and “Suspended particulate matter,” LAC:33:III:505.J, and LAC:33:III:505.L, which were previously disapproved, and LAC:33:III:6099, which was withdrawn by the Governor. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana Administrative Code, Title 33, Part 3, Chapters 1, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 23, 56, 60, 63, and 65 as adopted by Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality on December 20, 1987, except LAC:33:III: section 111 “Particulate matter,” “Suspended particulate matter,” section 505.J, section 505.L, and section 6099.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) A letter dated December 16, 1987, from Martha Madden, Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to the Governor of Louisiana, approving the codified air quality regulations effective December 20, 1987.


(50) The Louisiana State Implementation Plan for PM_10_ as submitted by the Governor in a letter dated July 26, 1988, and adopted by the State effective June 20, 1988.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to the Louisiana Administrative Code, Title 33, Chapter III, Sections 111, 509.B, 509.I.8.a, 709, 1301.B, 1303.A, 1305.A., 1311.B, 1311.C, 1313.C, 1315, 1319.G, 5609.A.1, 5609.A.2, 5609.A.3, and Tables 1, 1a, and 2 of chapter 7 as adopted effective June 20, 1988.


(B) A letter dated May 22, 1989, from Mike D. McDaniel, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to William B. Hathaway, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) A letter dated July 26, 1988, from Paul H. Templet, Secretary, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to the Governor of Louisiana approving the adoption of amendments to the Louisiana Air Quality Regulations to implement the new PM_10_ standard effective June 20, 1988.


(B) A narrative supplement to the Louisiana PM_10_ submitted by the Governor in a letter dated July 26, 1988.


(51) Revision to the Louisiana Lead State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted by the Governor in a letter dated July 18, 1986.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) An amended Compliance Order dated January 31, 1986, issued by the Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Ethyl Corporation, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Computer modeling submitted by letter dated May 27, 1988, from Doug Walters, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to Joe Winkler, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.


(B) Explanatory letter dated January 27, 1989, from Gustave Von Bodungen, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to Gerald Fontenot, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.


(52) On October 31, 1983, the Governor submitted a request to revise the Louisiana SIP to include an Alternative Emission Reduction Plan for the Vulcan Materials Company facility located at Geismar, Ascension Parish. A permit was issued by LDEQ on March 24, 1983 (#1829T), but after several revisions, the final permit for the trade is #1829T (M-2), issued July 28, 1989. This Bubble uses credits obtained from installation of a vapor recovery system on a tank farm of five VOC storage tanks in lieu of controls on one process vent and one VOC storage tank.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) LDEQ Permit number 1829T (M-2), Revision of Bubble Permit—Vulcan Chemicals Company, Geismar, Ascension Parish, Louisiana, issued July 28, 1989.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated June 28, 1989, from the Administrator of the Louisiana Office of Air Quality, giving assurances that the State has resources and plans necessary to strive toward attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS for ozone taking into account the influence of this Bubble on air quality.


(53) On May 5, 1986, the Governor submitted a request to revise the Louisiana SIP to include an alternate Emission Reduction Plan for the American Cyanamid Company Fortier Plant located at Westwego, Jefferson Parish. A permit was issued by LDEQ on October 17, 1984 (#1896), but after several revisions, the final permit for the trade is #1896 (M-2), issued July 20, 1989. This Bubble uses credits obtained from the change of service of three storage tanks from VOC to non-VOC usage to offset reductions required by controlling one methanol storage tank.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) LDEQ permit number 1896 (M-2) issued July 20, 1989, a Revision to Bubble Permit No. 1896 (M-1)—American Cyanamid Company, Westwego, Jefferson Parish, Louisiana.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated June 6, 1989, from the Administrator of the Louisiana Office of Air Quality, giving the State position that the Volatile Organic Compounds that have been shifted out of the emission reduction credit donating tanks have not been shifted elsewhere in the nonattainment area.


(B) Letter received by EPA on March 31, 1989, from Mr. Addison Tatum of the State of Louisiana, including calculations for the permit.


(54) A revision to allow an alternative emission reduction plan (“bubble”) for the Vista Chemical Company facility in Westlake, Louisiana, as submitted by the Governor on November 22, 1983, and amended by Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division permit #1828 M-2 issued September 25, 1986.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division permit #1828 M-2 issued September 25, 1986.


(ii) *Additional material.*—None.


(55) A revision to allow an alternative emission reduction plan [“bubble”] for the Union Carbide facility in Hahnville, Louisiana, as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 1983, and amended by Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division permit #1836T(M-1) issued April 23, 1987, and revised on May 5, 1990.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division permit #1836T(M-1) issued April 23, 1987, and revised on May 5, 1990.


(ii) *Additional material.*—None. 


(56) Revisions to Louisiana's volatile organic compound regulations were submitted by the Governor on June 13, 1990.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds, Subchapter B. Organic Solvents, Section 2123. Organic Solvents, paragraphs C.6. and D.3., effective February 20, 1990.


(57) Revisions to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan for LAC:33:III: Section 509 Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) sections (509)(B) (Baseline Area) (1), 509(B) (Baseline Area) (2), 509(B) (Baseline Concentration) (1), (509)(B) (Baseline Concentration) (1)(b), 509(B) (Baseline Concentration) (2)(a), 509(B) (Baseline Concentration) (2)(b), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (1)(a), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (1)(b), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (2), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (2)(a), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (2)(b), 509(B) (Net Emission Increases) (4), 509(D), and 509(P)(4), as adopted by the Secretary of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) on July 20, 1990, were submitted by the Governor on October 26, 1990.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) LAG:33:III: Section 509 Prevention of Significant Deterioration Sections (509)(B) (Baseline Area) (1), 509(B) (Baseline Area) (2), 509(B) (Baseline Concentration) (1)(a), (509)(B) (Baseline Concentration) (1)(b), 509(B) (Baseline Concentration) (2)(a), 509(B) (Baseline Concentration) (2)(b), 509(B) (Baseline Date (1)(a), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (1)(b), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (2), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (2)(a), 509(B) (Baseline Date) (2)(b), 509(B) (Net Emission Increase) (4), 509(D), and 509(P)(4) as amended on July 20, 1990.


(ii) *Additional material.*—None.


(58) Louisiana Air Quality Regulation section 6.6 as revised and adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on February 26, 1981, submitted by the Governor on March 25, 1981, and approved by the Environmental Protection Agency on June 9, 1982.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana Air Quality Regulation section 6.6 as revised and adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on February 26, 1981, submitted by the Governor on March 25, 1981, and approved by the Environmental Protection Agency on June 9, 1982.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated March 24, 1981, from the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources to the Governor of Louisiana acknowledging approval of Louisiana Air Quality Regulation section 6.6 by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission effective on February 26, 1981.


(59) A revision to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan (SIP) to include revisions to LAC, Title 33, “Environmental Quality,” Part III. Air, Chapter 15. Emission Standards for Sulfur Dioxide, effective April 20, 1992, and submitted by the Governor by cover letter dated August 5, 1992. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, “Environmental Quality,” Part III. Air, Chapter 15. Emission Standards for Sulfur Dioxide, Section 1501, “Degradation of Existing Emission Quality Restricted;” Section 1503, “Emission Limitations;” Table 4, “Emissions—Methods of Contaminant Measurement;” Section 1505, “Variances;” Section 1507, “Exceptions;” Section 1509, “Reduced Sulfur Compounds (New and Existing Sources);” Section 1511, “Continuous Emissions Monitoring;” and Section 1513, “Recordkeeping and Reporting,” effective April 20, 1992.


(60) A revision to the Louisiana State Implementation plan (SIP) to include revisions to Louisiana Administrative Code (LAC), Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 1, Chapter 21, and Chapter 61 as submitted by the Governor on June 13, 1990, October 26, 1990, May 24, 1991, and March 24, 1992.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21 (December 1987). Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, except section 2105. Storage of Volatile Organic Components (Small Tanks).


(B) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 1. General Provisions, section 111. Definitions—Administrator, Administrative Authority*, Attainment Areas, Nonattainment Areas, SIP, Volatile Organic Compound, and Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General, section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds paragraphs A., C., D.1., D.1.a. through D.1.d., D.2., D.2.a., D.2.b., D.3., E., F., H.1., H.2., I. effective January 20, 1990.


(C) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds Subchapter A. General, section 2107. Volatile Organic Compounds-Loading, section 2109. Oil/Water-Separation, paragraphs A.1. through A.4., B. through D., section 2113. Housekeeping, paragraphs A.1 through A.3., A.5., section 2117. Exemptions, section 2119. Variances B., and Subchapter D. Cutback Paving Asphalt section 2127. Cutback Paving Asphalt, paragraphs A., B., C.1., C.2., C.3., D., D.1., D.1.b., D.1.c., D.1.d., and D.2., effective February 20, 1990.


(D) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Subchapter B. Organic Solvents, section 2123. Organic Solvents, paragraphs C., C.1. through C.5., C.7. through C.9., effective February 20, 1990.


(E) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Subchapter F. Gasoline Handling, section 2131. Filling of Gasoline Storage Vessels, paragraphs A., B., B.1., B.3., D., D.1., D.4., D.5., E., F., and G., section 2133. Gasoline Bulk Plants paragraphs A., A.1., A.3. through A.6., B., B.3., B.4., C. and D., section 2135. Bulk Gasoline Terminals paragraphs A., B., B.1.a., B.1.a.i., B.1.a.iii., B.1.d., B.2. through B.5., and C. through E., E.1. through E.4., and section 2137. Gasoline Terminal Vapor-Tight Control Procedure. effective July 20, 1990.


(F) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds Subchapter A. General, section 2101. Compliance Schedules, section 2115. Waste Gas Disposal paragraphs A., B., C., D., F., G., H., I.1. through I.5., J. through K., section 2121. Fugitive Emission Control paragraphs B., B.1, B.2., C., C.1.b., C.1.b.i., C.1.b.ii., C.1.b.iii., C.1.c, C.2., C.2.b., C.2.b.i., C.4., C.4.c., C.4.d., C.5. and G., Subchapter C. Vapor Degreasers, section 2125. Vapor Degreasers paragraphs A., A.1., A.2., A.2.i. through A.2.m., A.3., A.3.a. through A.3.d., B., B.1., B.7., B.8., C., C.1., C.1.a. through C.1.c., C.1.i., C.1.j., and D. through G., Subchapter E. Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Systems, section 2129. Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Systems paragraphs A., A.1., A.2., A.2.a. through A.2.c., C., and D., Subchapter H. Graphic Arts, section 2143. Graphic Arts (Printing) by Rotogravure and Flexographic Processes paragraphs A., A.1., A.3., A.5., B., C. and D., Subchapter I. Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Facilities, section 2145. Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Facilities, paragraphs A., A.1., A.1.c., and E. through G. effective November 20, 1990.


(G) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds Subchapter A. General, section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds paragraphs B.,D., D.2.c. through D.2.e., G., H.3., I.2.c., I.4. and I.5., section 2107. Volatile Organic Compounds-Loading paragraphs D.3. and D.4., section 2109. Oil/Water Separation paragraphs A., B.4., and B.5., section 2111. Pumps and Compressors, section 2113. Housekeeping paragraph A.4., section 2119. Variances paragraph A.; Subchapter D. Cutback Paving Asphalt, section 2127. Cutback Paving Asphalt paragraphs C. and D.1.a. effective April 20, 1991.


(H) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 21. Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, section 2115. Waste Gas Disposal paragraphs I., K., and K.4., section 2121. Fugitive Emission Control paragraphs A., C.1., C.1.b.iv. through C.1.b.vi., C.4.a., C.4.b., C.4.h., D., D.1., D.1.b. through D.1.f., and D.2., section 2123. Organic Solvents paragraphs A., A.1. through A.3., B., B.1., B.1.a. through B.1.c., C.11., D., D.1. through D.9., E., E.1. through E.7., F., and F.1. through F.4., Subchapter F. Gasoline Handling, section 2131. Filling of Gasoline Storage Vessels paragraphs D.2. and D.3., section 2135. Bulk Gasoline Terminals paragraph E.5., Subchapter G-Petroleum Refinery Operations, section 2139. Refinery Vacuum Producing Systems paragraphs A. and B. and section 2141. Refinery Process Unit Turnarounds effective July 20, 1991.


(I) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air, Chapter 61. Division's Sources Test Manual, Subchapter A. Method 43-Capture Efficiency Test Procedures section 6121 through section 6131 effective July 20, 1991.


(J) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air Chapter 1. General Provisions, section 111. Definitions-Coating, Department, Distance from Source to Property Line, Exceedance, Hydrocarbon, Leak, Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products Coating, Nonattainment Area, Ozone Exceedance, SIP effective August 20, 1991.


(61) A revision to the Louisiana SIP to include revisions to LAC, Title 33, “Environmental Quality,” Part III. Air, Chapter 21, Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Section 2132—Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems for Control of Vehicle Refuelling Emissions at Gasoline Dispensing Facilities effective November 20, 1992, and submitted by the Governor by cover letter dated November 10, 1992. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, “Environmental Quality,” Part III. Air, Chapter 21, Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, Section 2132—Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems for Control of Vehicle Refuelling Emissions at Gasoline Dispensing Facilities, effective November 20, 1992; and Chapter 65, Section 6523—Fee Schedule Listing, effective November 20, 1992. 


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) November 15, 1993, narrative plan addressing: Legal authority, control strategy, compliance schedules, air quality surveillance, public notice, determination of regulated universe, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality recordkeeping, facility recordkeeping, annual in-use above ground inspections, program penalties, training, and benefits.


(62) Alternative emission reduction (bubble) plan for the Dow Chemical facility located in Plaquemine, Iberville Parish, as adopted by the Louisiana Environmental Control Commission on July 28, 1983, submitted by the Governor on October 19, 1983, and amended by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality with permit number 1838T(M-2) issued on October 16, 1991. 


(ii) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Permit number 1838T(M-2) as issued by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality on October 16, 1991. 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated September 17, 1991, from the Administrator of the Office of Air Quality at the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality to the Chief of the Planning Section at the Air Programs Branch of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency—Region 6, furnishing State assurances. 


(63) The State is required to implement a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM) as specified in the plan revision submitted by the Governor on October 22, 1992. This plan submittal, as adopted by the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) on October 22, 1992, was developed in accordance with section 507 of the Clean Air Act (CAA).


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Enrolled House Bill No. 1319 (Act 1037, Regular Session, 1992), signed into law by the Governor on July 13, 1992, and effective upon signature, enacting Louisiana Revised Statutes (R.S.) 30:2061 and 2062 and R.S. 36:239(H). Included in Act 1037 are provisions establishing a small business stationary source compliance assistance program; creating the State Ombudsman Office for small business; creating a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP); establishing membership of the CAP; and establishing CAP powers, duties, and functions.


(B) Louisiana R.S. 30:2060N.(6), “Toxic air pollutant emission control program”, (the small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program subsection), as in effect on October 22, 1992.


(C) State of Louisiana Executive Order No. EWE 92-4 dated February 10, 1992, and effective upon signature, creating and establishing an Office of Permits within the Executive Department, Office of the Governor.


(D) Letter from Louisiana Governor Edwards to Mr. Kai Midboe, Secretary, LDEQ, dated February 20, 1992, designating the Governor's Office of Permits as the official State office to serve as Ombudsman for the PROGRAM per the mandate of section 507 of the Federal CAA. The Coordinator of the Office of Permits will be responsible for administering the Small Business Ombudsman portion of the PROGRAM.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Narrative SIP Revision entitled, “Louisiana SIP, Concerning CAA Amendments of 1990, Section 507, Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance (Program); November 15, 1992.”


(B) “State of Louisiana Memorandum of Understanding Between the Governor's Office of Permits and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality”, signed (and effective) on April 7, 1992, by Mr. Kai David Midboe, Secretary, LDEQ, and Ms. Martha A. Madden, Coordinator, Governor's Office of Permits. 


(C) Legal opinion letter dated October 22, 1992, from James B. Thompson, III, Assistant Secretary for Legal Affairs and Enforcement, LDEQ, to Mr. B. J. Wynne, Regional Administrator, EPA Region VI, regarding “Appointment to Small Business Advisory Panel”.


(64) Revisions to the Louisiana SIP addressing VOC RACT catch-up requirements were submitted by the Governor of Louisiana by letters dated December 21, 1992, and April 14, 1993.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds, paragraphs G., I., I.4.; section 2109. Oil/Water Separation, paragraph B.4.; Subchapter B. Organic Solvents; section 2123. Organic Solvents, paragraph D.6.; Subchapter C. Vapor Degreasers; section 2125. Vapor Degreasers, paragraph D.; Subchapter F. Gasoline Handling; section 2131. Filling of Gasoline Storage Vessels, paragraphs D., D.1., D.3., G.; section 2135. Bulk Gasoline Terminals, paragraph A.; Subchapter H. Graphic Arts; section 2143. Graphic Arts (Printing) by Rotogravure and Flexographic Processes, paragraph B, as adopted by LDEQ on October 20, 1992.


(B) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2115. Waste Gas Disposal, introductory paragraph, paragraphs H., H.1., H.1.a through H.1.d, H.2, H.2.a, H.2.b, H.3, L., as adopted by LDEQ on March 20, 1993.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letters dated November 10, 1992 and December 21, 1992, signed by Edwin Edwards, Governor of Louisiana.


(B) Letter dated April 14, 1993, signed by Edwin Edwards, Governor of Louisiana.


(C) Letter of negative declaration dated March 29, 1994, signed by Gustave Von Boduungen, P.E., Assistant Secretary, LDEQ.


(65) Revisions to the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Regulation Title 33, Part III, Chapter 9, Section 919, (February 2, 1993), and a technical correction (October 20, 1994). These revisions are for the purpose of implementing an emission statement program for stationary sources within the ozone nonattainment areas. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to LAC, title 33, Part III, Chapter 9, *General Regulations on Control of Emissions and Emissions Standards,* Section 919, *Emission Inventory,* adopted in the *Louisiana Register,* Vol. 19, No. 2, 184-186, February 20, 1993. All subsections except B.2.a. and B.2.d. 


(B) Revisions to LAC, title 33, Part III, Chapter 9, *General Regulations on Control of Emissions and Emissions standards,* Section 919, *Emission Inventory,* adopted in the *Louisiana Register,* Vol 20, No. 10, 1102, October 20, 1994. Subsections B.2.a. and B.2.d. 


(66) Revisions to the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Regulation Title 33, Part III, Chapter 2, Section 223 and Chapter 19, Sections 1951-1973. These revisions are for the purpose of implementing a Clean Fuel Fleet Program to satisfy the Federal requirements for a Clean Fuel Fleet Program to be part of the SIP for Louisiana. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revision to LAC, Title 33, Part III, Chapter 2, Rules and Regulations for the Fee System of the Air Quality Control Programs, Section 223, Fee Schedule Listing, adopted in the *Louisiana Register,* Vol. 20, No. 11, 1263, November 20, 1994. 


(B) Revision to LAC, Title 33, Part III, Chapter 19, Mobile Sources, Subchapter B, Clean Fuel Fleet Program, Sections 1951-1973, adopted in the *Louisiana Register,* Vol. 20, No. 11, 1263-1268, November 20, 1994. 


(67) A revision to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan for General Conformity: LAC 33:III. CHAPTER 14. SUBCHAPTER A “Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plan” as adopted by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Secretary and published in the Louisiana Register, Vol. 20, No. 11, 1268, November 20, 1994, was submitted by the Governor on November 10, 1994.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana General Conformity: LAC 33:III. CHAPTER 14. SUBCHAPTER A “Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plan” as adopted by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Secretary and published in the Louisiana Register, Vol. 20, No. 11, 1268, November 20, 1994.


(68) A revision to the Louisiana SIP addressing the nonattainment NSR program for Louisiana was submitted by the Governor of Louisiana on March 3, 1993, and November 15, 1993.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revision to LAC, Title 33, Part III. Air, Chapter 5. Permit Procedures, by the addition of Section 504. Nonattainment New Source Review Procedures, as promulgated in the Louisiana Register, Volume 19, Number 2, 176-183, February 20, 1993; effective February 20, 1993, and submitted by the Governor on March 3, 1993.


(B) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Part III. Air, Chapter 5. Permit Procedures, Section 504. Nonattainment New Source Review Procedures, Subsections: A., Applicability, Paragraphs A(1), A(2), A(3), A(4); D., Nonattainment New Source Requirements, Paragraph D(4); Delete G., Permit Procedures, Public Participation and Notification; Reletter H., Definitions, to G., and revise definitions for Major Modification (paragraphs: a., c.iii, c.iv, c.v.(a)(b), c.vi, c.vii), Major Stationary Source (paragraphs: a., d.i); Delete Table 1; Renumber Table 2, Major Stationary Source/Major Modification Emission Thresholds, to Table 1, and revise Footnote 1., as promulgated in the Louisiana Register, Volume 19, Number 11, 1420-1421, November 20, 1993; effective November 20, 1993, and submitted by the Governor on November 4, 1993.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated January 7, 1994, signed by the Governor of Louisiana, which clarifies that section 504 is to be reviewed under the SIP program.


(69) The Governor of Louisiana submitted revisions to Regulation Louisiana Administrative Code on March 22, 1995 to incorporate changes in the Federal PSD permitting regulations for PM-10 increments.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to Regulation Louisiana Administrative Code 33:III.Chapter 5, Section 509, effective February 20, 1995: Section B. Definitions: Baseline Date; Section B. Definitions: Net Emissions Increase; Section D. Ambient Air Increments; Section I.8.a.; Section K.2.; and Section P.4.


(70) The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality submitted a redesignation request and maintenance plan for Pointe Coupee Parish on December 20, 1995. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements in section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act as amended in 1990. The redesignation meets the Federal requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as a revision to the Louisiana ozone State Implementation Plan for Pointe Coupee Parish. The EPA therefore approved the request for redesignation to attainment with respect to ozone for Pointe Coupee Parish on December 20, 1996.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* Letter dated August 31, 1995, from Mr. Gustave Von Bodungen, P.E., Assistant Secretary, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, transmitting a copy of the Pointe Coupee Parish maintenance plan for the EPA's approval.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter dated August 28, 1995, from Governor Edwin E. Edwards of Louisiana to Ms. Jane Saginaw, Regional Administrator, requesting the reclassification and redesignation of Pointe Coupee Parish to attainment for ozone.


(B) The ten year ozone maintenance plan, including emissions projections and contingency measures, submitted to EPA as part of the Pointe Coupee Parish redesignation request on December 20, 1995.


(71) A revision to the Louisiana SIP addressing the 15 percent rate-of-progress requirements was submitted by the Governor of Louisiana by cover letter dated December 15, 1995. This revision, submitted to satisfy the requirements of section 182(b) of the Clean Air Act (Act), will aid in ensuring that reasonable further progress is made towards attaining the national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2108. Marine Vapor Recovery, paragraphs B.1., B.2., B.3., B.3.a. through B.3.d., B.4.a., B.4.b., B.5., B.6., D.1.a., D.1.a.i., D.1.a.ii., D.1.b., D.2., D.3., D.4.a., D.4.b., D.4.c., D.4.c.i., D.4.c.ii., D.4.d., D.4.e., D.4.e.i., D.4.e.ii., D.4.f., D.4.g., E.2., E.2.a. through E.2.c., F.1., F.2., F.3., G.1., G.2., as adopted by LDEQ on October 20, 1988.


(B) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2108. Marine Vapor Recovery, paragraphs A., B. Definitions-Barge, Crude Oil, Gasoline, Ship, C., C.1., C.2., C.3., C.3.a. through C.3.d. (note: paragraphs B.1., B.2., B.3., and B.3.a. through B.3.d., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to C.1., C.2., C.3., and C.3.a. through C.3.d. without repromulgating), C.4., C.4.a., C.4.b., C.5., C.6. (note: paragraphs B.4.a., B.4.b., B.5., and B.6., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to C.4.a., C.4.b., C.5., and C.6. without repromulgating), D.1., D.1.a. through D.1.c., D.2., D.2.a. through D.2.c., D.3., E., E.1., E.1.a., E.1.a.i., E.1.a.ii., E.1.b., E.2., E.3. (note: D.1.a., D.1.a.i., D.1.a.ii., D.1.b., D.2., and D.3., as adopted October 20, 1988, were moved to E.1.a., E.1.a.i., E.1.a.ii., E.1.b., E.2., and E.3. without repromulgating), E.4., E.4.a., E.4.b., E.4.c., E.4.c.i., E.4.c.ii., E.4.d., E.4.e., E.4.e.i., E.4.e.ii., E.4.f., E.4.g. (note: D.4.a., D.4.b., D.4.c., D.4.c.i., D.4.c.ii., D.4.d., D.4.e., D.4.e.i., D.4.e.ii., D.4.f., and D.4.g, as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to E.4.a., E.4.b., E.4.c., E.4.c.i., E.4.c.ii., E.4.d., E.4.e., E.4.e.i., E.4.e.ii., E.4.f., and E.4.g. without repromulgating), E.5., F., F.1., F.2., F.2.a. through F.2.e. (note: E.2. and E.2.a. through E.2.c., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to F.2. and F.2.a through F.2.c. without repromulgating), G., G.1., G.2., G.3. (note: F.1., F.2., and F.3., as adopted October 20, 1988, were moved to G.1., G.2., and G.3. without repromulgating), H., H.1., H.2. (note: G.1. and G.2., as adopted on October 20, 1988, were moved to H.1. and H.2. without repromulgating), as adopted by LDEQ on November 20, 1990.


(C) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2122. Fugitive Emission Control for Ozone Nonattainment Areas, paragraphs A., A.1. through A.5., A.6., A.6.a. through A.6.d., B. Definitions-Connector, Good Performance Level, Heavy Liquid Service, Inaccessible Valve/Connector, In Vacuum Service, Light Liquid, Light Liquid Service, Liquid Service, Process Unit, Process Unit Shutdown, Unrepairable Component, C., C.1., C.1.a. through C.1.c., C.2. through C.5., D., D.1., D.1.a., D.1.a.i., D.1.a.ii., D.1.b., D.1.b.i. through D.1.b.v., D.1.c. through D.1.e., D.2., D.2.a., D.2.b., D.2.b.i. through D.2.b.iii., D.3., D.3.a. through D.3.d., D.4., D.4.a. through D.4.k., D.5., E.1.a. through E.1.f., E.2., E.3., E.3.a., E.3.a.i. through E.3.a.v., E.3.b., E.3.b.i. through E.3.b.v., F., F.1., F.2., F.2.a. through F.2.j., F.3., G., G.1. through G.13., as adopted by LDEQ on October 20, 1994.


(D) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2122. Fugitive Emission Control for Ozone Nonattainment Areas, paragraphs E., E.1., E.1.g., as adopted by LDEQ on November 20, 1994.


(E) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds, paragraphs A., B., D.1., D.1.a. through D.1.d., D.2., D.2.a. through D.2.e., E., F., G., G.1. through G.4., H., H.1., H.2., H.2.a. through H.2.e., H.3., I., I.1., I.2., I.2.a. through I.2.c., I.3. through I.5., as adopted by LDEQ on December 20, 1994.


(F) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air;


(G) Revisions to LAC, Title 33, Environmental Quality, Part III. Air; Chapter 21. Control of Emissions of Organic Compounds, Subchapter A. General; section 2103. Storage of Volatile Organic Compounds, paragraph D.4., as adopted by LDEQ on December 20, 1995.


(H) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated December 16, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of BASF Corporation, Geismar, Louisiana.


(I) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated August 22, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of CosMar Company, Inc., Carville, Louisiana.


(J) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated September 26, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Shell Chemical Company, Geismar, Louisiana.


(K) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated September 8, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Uniroyal Chemical Company, Inc., Geismar, Louisiana.


(L) Reasonable Further Progress Agreed To Order, dated September 8, 1994, issued by the Assistant Secretary of the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality in the matter of Vulcan Chemicals, Geismar, Louisiana.


(M) SIP narrative plan entitled, “Revision to the 15% Rate of Progress Plan and 1990 Emissions Inventory,” dated December 28, 1995, page 11, Section 2.2, 1996 Target Level Emissions, first paragraph; page 23, Section 5, Table 2—Reductions in Plan; page 173, Appendix G, table—Reductions from Industrial Sources through 1996 Used for the 15% Requirement, which ends on page 174.


(ii) *Additional materials.* (A) SIP narrative plan entitled, “Revision to 15% Rate of Progress Plan and 1990 Emissions Inventory,” submitted by the Governor of Louisiana on December 15, 1995, except Section 6. Contingency Measures Documentation, Appendix M. Contingency Reductions Documentation, and Appendix N. Banking Regulations.


(B) Letter dated May 3, 1996, from Gustave Von Bodungen, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, to Thomas Diggs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting supplemental documentation for the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan.


(72) Revisions to the Louisiana SIP addressing VOC RACT Negative Declarations. The Governor of Louisiana submitted the negative declarations for reasonably available control technology (RACT) for the Baton Rouge ozone nonattainment area on December 15, 1996. Section 172(c)(1) of the Clean Air Act requires nonattainment areas to adopt, at a minimum, RACT to reduce emissions from existing sources. Pursuant to section 182(b)(2) of the Act, for moderate and above ozone nonattainment areas, the EPA has identified 13 categories for such sources and developed the Control Technique Guidelines (CTGs) or Alternate Control Techniques (ACTs) documents to implement RACT at those sources. When no major volatile organic compound (VOC) sources for a CTG/ACT category exist in a nonattainment area, a State may submit a negative declaration for that category. Louisiana's submittal included two negative declaration letters from Mr. Gustave Von Bodungen to Ms. Karen Alvarez dated April 6, 1994, and June 20, 1994, for the following source categories: offset lithography, plastic parts-business machines, plastic parts-others, wood furniture, aerospace coatings, autobody refinishing, and shipbuilding coatings/repair. This submittal satisfies section 182(b)(2) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 for these particular CTG/ACT source categories for the Baton Rouge ozone nonattainment area.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* The letter dated December 15, 1995, from the Governor of Louisiana to the Regional Administrator, submitting a revision to the Louisiana SIP for VOC RACT rules, which included VOC RACT negative declarations.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) The negative declaration letter dated April 16, 1994, from Mr. Gustave Von Bodungen to Ms. Karen Alvarez.


(B) The negative declaration letter dated June 20, 1994, from Mr. Gustave Von Bodungen to Ms. Karen Alvarez.


(73) The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality submitted a redesignation request and maintenance plan for Calcasieu Parish on December 20, 1995. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements in section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act. The redesignation meets the Federal requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Act as a revision to the Louisiana ozone State Implementation Plan for Calcasieu Parish. The EPA therefore approved the request for redesignation to attainment with respect to ozone for Calcasieu Parish on June 2, 1997.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* Letter dated December 20, 1995, from Governor Edwin E. Edwards of Louisiana to Ms. Jane Saginaw, Regional Administrator, transmitting a copy of the Calcasieu Parish maintenance plan and requesting the redesignation of Calcasieu Parish to attainment for ozone.


(ii) *Additional material.*The ten year ozone maintenance plan, including emissions projections and contingency measures, submitted to EPA as part of the Calcasieu Parish redesignation request on December 20, 1995.


(74) Revisions to the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Regulation Title 33, Part III, Chapter 21, Control of Emission of Organic Compounds, submitted by the Governor on December 15, 1995. 


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) LAC, Title 33, Part III, Chapter 21, Section 2147, Limiting Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Reactor Processes and Distillation Operations in the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry, adopted in the Louisiana Register on April 20, 1995 (LR 21:380). 


(B) LAC, Title 33, Part III, Chapter 21, Section 2149, Limiting Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Batch Processing, adopted in the Louisiana Register on April 20, 1995 (LR 21:387). 


(C) LAC, Title 33, Part III, Chapter 21, Section 2151, Limiting Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Cleanup Solvent Processing, adopted in the Louisiana Register on April 20, 1995 (LR 21:391). 


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter of negative declaration for wood furniture dated January 21, 1997, from the State of Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality. 


(75) A revision to the Louisiana State Implementation Plan for General Conformity: LAC 33:III. Chapter 14. Subchapter A “Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plan,” Section 1405.B as adopted by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Secretary and published in the Louisiana Register, Vol. 23, No. 6, 720, June 20, 1997, was submitted by the Governor on September 8, 1997.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* (A) Louisiana General Conformity: LAC 33:III. Chapter 14. Subchapter A “Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plan”, Section 1405.B as adopted by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality Secretary and published in the Louisiana Register, Vol. 23, No. 6, 720, June 20, 1997.


(76) [Reserved]


(77) Revisions to the Louisiana Administrative Code, Title 33, Part III, Chapter 21, Section 2149 (LAC 33:III.2149), “Limiting Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Batch Processing,” submitted by the Governor on March 23, 1998.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* LAC 33:III Chapter 21, revised paragraph 2149.A.2.b; paragraphs 2149.C.2.a, b, and c become paragraphs 2149.C.2.d, e, and f respectively; and add new paragraphs 2149.C.2.a, b, and c, as adopted in the Louisiana Register on November 20, 1997 (LR 23:1507).


(ii) *Additional material.*None.


(78) [Reserved]


(79) Site-specific revision to the 15% Rate-of-Progress plan submitted by the Governor in a letter dated December 20, 1997. The revision provides for a schedule extension for installation of guide pole sliding cover gaskets on 33 external floating roof tanks located at the Baton Rouge refinery of Exxon Company U.S.A.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* Letters dated July 17, 1997, and September 12, 1997, from the LDEQ to Exxon Company U.S.A. approving the compliance date extension; which are included in the State Implementation Plan submittal entitled, “Summary of 15% Rate-of-Progress State Implementation Plan Revision,” dated December 20, 1997.


(ii) *Additional material.* (A) Letter from the Governor of Louisiana dated December 20, 1997, transmitting a copy of the State Implementation Plan revision.


(B) Letters dated November 13, 1996; May 14, 1997; and July 3, 1997; from Exxon Company U.S.A. to the LDEQ requesting the compliance date extension and including a list of the subject tanks, the date of the next maintenance downtime, and emissions estimates for the tanks; which are included in the State Implementation Plan submittal entitled, “Summary of 15% Rate-of-Progress State Implementation Plan Revision,” dated December 20, 1997.



---

[N] [37 FR 10869, May 31, 1972]


