# § 91.323   Increased maximum certificated weights for certain airplanes operated in Alaska.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Federal Aviation Regulations, the Administrator will approve, as provided in this section, an increase in the maximum certificated weight of an airplane type certificated under Aeronautics Bulletin No. 7-A of the U.S. Department of Commerce dated January 1, 1931, as amended, or under the normal category of part 4a of the former Civil Air Regulations (14 CFR part 4a, 1964 ed.) if that airplane is operated in the State of Alaska by—


(1) A certificate holder conducting operations under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter; or


(2) The U.S. Department of Interior in conducting its game and fish law enforcement activities or its management, fire detection, and fire suppression activities concerning public lands. 


(b) The maximum certificated weight approved under this section may not exceed—


(1) 12,500 pounds; 


(2) 115 percent of the maximum weight listed in the FAA aircraft specifications; 


(3) The weight at which the airplane meets the positive maneuvering load factor *n, where n*=2.1+(24,000/(W+10,000)) and W=design maximum takeoff weight, except that n need not be more than 3.8; or


(4) The weight at which the airplane meets the climb performance requirements under which it was type certificated. 


(c) In determining the maximum certificated weight, the Administrator considers the structural soundness of the airplane and the terrain to be traversed. 


(d) The maximum certificated weight determined under this section is added to the airplane's operation limitations and is identified as the maximum weight authorized for operations within the State of Alaska. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 91-211, 54 FR 41211, Oct. 5, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-253, 62 FR 13253, Mar. 19, 1997; Docket FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 91-346, 81 FR 96700, Dec. 30, 2016]




