# 6.102   Use of competitive procedures.

The competitive procedures available for use in fulfilling the requirement for full and open competition are as follows:


(a) *Sealed bids.* (See 6.401(a).)


(b) *Competitive proposals.* (See 6.401(b).) If sealed bids are not appropriate under paragraph (a) of this section, contracting officers shall request competitive proposals or use the other competitive procedures under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.


(c) *Combination of competitive procedures.* If sealed bids are not appropriate, contracting officers may use any combination of competitive procedures (e.g., two-step sealed bidding).


(d) *Other competitive procedures.* (1) Selection of sources for architect-engineer contracts in accordance with the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 1102 *et seq.* is a competitive procedure (see subpart 36.6 for procedures).


(2) Competitive selection of basic and applied research and that part of development not related to the development of a specific system or hardware procurement is a competitive procedure if award results from—


(i) A broad agency announcement that is general in nature identifying areas of research interest, including criteria for selecting proposals, and soliciting the participation of all offerors capable of satisfying the Government's needs; and


(ii) A peer or scientific review.


(3) Use of multiple award schedules issued under the procedures established by the Administrator of General Services consistent with the requirement of 41 U.S.C. 152(3)(A) for the multiple award schedule program of the General Services Administration is a competitive procedure.



---

[N] [50 FR 1729, Jan. 11, 1985; 50 FR 52429, Dec. 23, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 27463, July 20, 1988; 59 FR 53716, Oct. 25, 1994; 70 FR 57454, Sept. 30, 2005; 79 FR 24198, Apr. 29, 2014; 84 FR 19842, May 6, 2019]




