# § 484.355   Data reporting for measures and evaluation and the public reporting of model data under the expanded Home Health Value-Based Purchasing (HHVBP) Model.

(a) Competing home health agencies will be evaluated using a set of quality measures.


(1) *Data submission.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, for the pre-implementation year and each performance year, an HHA must submit all of the following to CMS in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS:


(i) Data on measures specified under the expanded HHVBP model.


(ii) HHCAHPS survey data. For purposes of HHCAHPS Survey data submission, the following additional requirements apply:


(A) *Survey requirements.* An HHA must contract with an approved, independent HHCAHPS survey vendor to administer the HHCAHPS survey on its behalf.


(B) *CMS approval.* CMS approves an HHCAHPS survey vendor if the applicant has been in business for a minimum of 3 years and has conducted surveys of individuals and samples for at least 2 years.


(C) *Definition of survey of individuals.* For the HHCAHPS survey, a “survey of individuals” is defined as the collection of data from at least 600 individuals selected by statistical sampling methods and the data collected are used for statistical purposes.


(D) *Administration of the HHCAHPS survey.* No organization, firm, or business that owns, operates, or provides staffing for an HHA is permitted to administer its own HHCAHPS survey or administer the survey on behalf of any other HHA in the capacity as an HHCAHPS survey vendor. Such organizations are not approved by CMS as HHCAHPS survey vendors.


(E) *Compliance by HHCAHPS survey vendors.* Approved HHCAHPS survey vendors must fully comply with all HHCAHPS survey oversight activities, including allowing CMS and its HHCAHPS survey team to perform site visits at the vendors' company locations.


(F) *Patient count exemption.* An HHA that has less than 60 eligible unique HHCAHPS survey patients must annually submit to CMS its total HHCAHPS survey patient count to be exempt from the HHCAHPS survey reporting requirements for a calendar year.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) Competing home health agencies are required to collect and report such information as the Secretary determines is necessary for purposes of monitoring and evaluating the expanded HHVBP Model under section 1115A(b)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1315a).


(c) For each performance year of the expanded HHVBP Model, CMS publicly reports applicable measure benchmarks and achievement thresholds for each cohort as well as all of the following for each competing HHA that qualified for a payment adjustment for the applicable performance year on a CMS website:


(1) The Total Performance Score.


(2) The percentile ranking of the Total Performance Score.


(3) The payment adjustment percentage.


(4) Applicable measure results and improvement thresholds.


(d) CMS may grant an exception with respect to quality data reporting requirements in the event of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the HHA. CMS may grant an exception as follows:


(1) A competing HHA that wishes to request an exception with respect to quality data reporting requirements must submit its request to CMS within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred. Specific requirements for submission of a request for an exception are available on the CMS website.


(2) CMS may grant an exception to one or more HHAs that have not requested an exception if CMS determines either of the following:


(i) That a systemic problem with CMS data collection systems directly affected the ability of the HHA to submit data.


(ii) That an extraordinary circumstance has affected an entire region or locale.








