# ยง 93.12   Analyses available and locations of laboratories.

(a) *Aflatoxin testing services.* The aflatoxin analyses for peanuts, peanut products, dried fruits, grains, edible seeds, tree nuts, shelled corn products, cottonseed, oilseed products and other commodities are performed at the following 6 locations for AMS Science and Technology (S&T) Aflatoxin Laboratories: 


(b) *Peanuts, peanut products, and oilseed testing services.* (1) The Science and Technology (S&T) Aflatoxin Laboratories at Madill, Oklahoma and Blakely, Georgia will perform other analyses for peanuts, peanut products, and a variety of oilseeds. The analyses for oilseeds include testing for free fatty acids, ammonia, nitrogen or protein, moisture and volatile matter, foreign matter, and oil (fat) content. 


(2) All of the analyses described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section performed on a single seed sample are billed at the rate of one hour per sample. Any single seed analysis performed on a single sample is billed at the rate of one-half hour per sample. The standard hourly rate shall be as specified in ยง 91.37(a) of this subchapter. 


(c) *Vegetable oil testing services.* The analyses for vegetable oils are performed at the USDA, AMS, Science and Technology (S&T) Midwestern Laboratory, 3570 North Avondale Avenue, Chicago, IL 60618-5391. The analyses for vegetable oils will include the flash point test, smoke point test, acid value, peroxide value, phosphorus in oil, and specific gravity. The fee charged for any single laboratory analysis for vegetable oils shall be obtained from the Midwestern Laboratory Director and it is based on the hourly fee rates and charges as specified in 7 CFR part 91, subpart I.



---

[N] [65 FR 64317, Oct. 26, 2000]




