# § 306.12   Labels.

All labels must meet the following specifications:


(a) *Layout*—(1) *For gasoline labels.* The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide × 2
1/2 inches (6.35 cm) long. The illustrations appearing at the end of this rule are prototype labels that demonstrate the proper layout. “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type is used throughout except for the octane rating number on octane labels, which is in Franklin gothic type. All type is centered. Spacing of the label is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) between the top border and the first line of text, 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) between the first and second line of text, 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) between the octane rating and the line of text above it. All text and numerals are centered within the interior borders.


(2) *For alternative liquid automotive fuel labels (one principal component), other than biodiesel, biomass-based diesel, biodiesel blends, or biomass-based diesel blends.* The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide × 2
1/2 inches (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the name of the fuel. This band should measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the fuel name is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the top of the label and 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band is 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, with 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) between each line. The bottom line of type is 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label. If you wish to change the dimensions of this one principal component label to accommodate a fuel descriptor that is longer than shown in the sample labels, you must petition the Federal Trade Commission. You must state the size and contents of the label that you wish to use, and the reasons that you want to use it. Petitions for exemptions will be handled pursuant to the procedures prescribed in § 1.31 of this chapter.


(3) *For alternative liquid automotive fuel labels (two components).* The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide × 2
1/2 inches (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the name of the fuel. This band should measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the fuel name is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the top of the label and 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band is 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, with 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) between each line. The bottom line of type is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label. If you wish to change the dimensions of this two component label to accommodate additional fuel components, you must petition the Federal Trade Commission. You must state the size and contents of the label that you wish to use, and the reasons that you want to use it. Petitions for exemptions will be handled pursuant to the procedures prescribed in § 1.31 of this chapter.


(4) *For ethanol flex fuels.* (i) The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide x 2
1/2 inches (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type is used throughout. The band at the top of the label contains one of the following:


(A) *For all ethanol flex* fuels. The numerical value representing the volume percentage of ethanol in the fuel followed by the percentage sign and then by the term “ETHANOL”; or


(B) *For ethanol flex fuels containing more than 10 percent and no greater than 50 percent ethanol by volume.* The numerical value representing the volume percentage of ethanol in the fuel, rounded to the nearest multiple of 10, followed by the percentage sign and then the term “ETHANOL”; or


(C) *For ethanol flex fuels containing more than 50 percent and no greater than 83 percent ethanol by volume.* The numerical value representing the volume percentage of ethanol in the fuel, rounded to the nearest multiple of 10, followed by the percentage sign and then the term “ETHANOL” or the phrase, “51%-83% ETHANOL.”


(ii) The band should measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep. The type in the band is centered both horizontally and vertically. The percentage disclosure and the word “ETHANOL” are in 24 point font. In the case of labels including the phrase, “51%-83% ETHANOL,” the percentage disclosure is in 18 point font, and the word “ETHANOL” is in 24 point font and at least 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) below the percentage disclosure. The type below the black band is centered vertically and horizontally. The first line is the text: “USE *ONLY* IN.” It is in 16 point font, except for the word “*ONLY,*” which is in 26 point font. The word “*ONLY*” is underlined with a 2 point (or thicker) underline. The second line is in 16 point font, at least 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) below the first line, and is the text: “FLEX-FUEL VEHICLES.” The third line is in 10 point font, at least 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) below the first line, and is the text “MAY HARM OTHER ENGINES.”


(5) *For biodiesel blends containing more than 5 percent and no greater than 20 percent biodiesel by volume.* (i) The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide × 2
1/2 inches (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains either:


(A) The capital letter “B” followed immediately by the numerical value representing the volume percentage of biodiesel in the fuel (e.g., “B20”) and then by the term “Biodiesel Blend”; or


(B) The term “Biodiesel Blend.”


(ii) The band should measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the text in the band is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the top of the label and 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. Directly underneath the black band, the label shall read “contains biomass-based diesel or biodiesel in quantities between 5 percent and 20 percent.” The script underneath the black band must be centered horizontally, with 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) between each line. The bottom line of type is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label.


(6) *For biomass-based diesel blends containing more than 5 percent and no greater than 20 percent biomass-based diesel by volume.* (i) The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide × 2
1/2 inches (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains either:


(A) The numerical value representing the volume percentage of biomass-based diesel in the fuel followed immediately by the percentage symbol (*e.g.,* “20%”) and then by the term “Biomass-Based Diesel Blend”; or


(B) The term “Biomass-Based Diesel Blend.”


(ii) The band should measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the text in the band is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the top of the label and 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. Directly underneath the black band, the label shall read “contains biomass-based diesel or biodiesel in quantities between 5 percent and 20 percent.” The script underneath the black band must be centered horizontally, with 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) between each line. The bottom line of type is 
1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than 
3/16 inch (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label.


(7) *For biodiesel blends containing more than 20 percent biodiesel by volume.* The requirements are the same as in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, except that the black band at the top of the label shall contain the capital letter “B” followed immediately by the numerical value representing the volume percentage of biodiesel in the fuel (e.g., “B-70”) and then the term “Biodiesel Blend.” In addition, the words directly underneath the black band shall read “contains more than 20 percent biomass-based diesel or biodiesel.”


(8) *For biomass-based diesel blends containing more than 20 percent biomass-based diesel by volume.* The requirements are the same as in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, except that the black band at the top of the label shall contain the numerical value representing the volume percentage of biomass-based diesel in the fuel followed immediately by the percentage symbol (e.g., “70%”) and then the term “Biomass-Based Diesel Blend.” In addition, the words directly underneath the black band shall read “contains more than 20 percent biomass-based diesel or biodiesel.”


(9) *For 100% biodiesel.* The requirements are the same as in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, except that the black band at the top of the label shall contain the phrase “B-100 Biodiesel.” In addition, the words directly underneath the black band shall read “contains 100 percent biodiesel.”


(10) *For 100% biomass-based diesel.* The requirements are the same as in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, except that the black band at the top of the label shall contain the phrase “100% Biomass-Based Diesel.” In addition, the words directly underneath the black band shall read “contains 100 percent biomass-based diesel.”


(b) *Type size and setting*—(1) *For gasoline labels.* The Helvetica series or equivalent type is used for all numbers and letters with the exception of the octane rating number. Helvetica is available in a variety of phototype setting systems, by linotype, and in a variety of computer desk-top and phototype setting systems. Its name may vary, but the type must conform in style and thickness to the sample provided here. The line “Minimum Octane Rating” is set in 12 point Helvetica Bold, all capitals, with letterspace set at 12
1/2 points. The line “(R + M)/2 METHOD” is set in 10 point Helvetica Bold, all capitals, with letterspace set at 10
1/2 points. The octane number is set in 96 point Franklin gothic condensed with 
1/8 inch (.32 cm) space between the numbers.


(2) *For alternative liquid automotive fuel labels (one principal component).* Except as provided above, labels should conform to the following specifications. All type should be set in upper case (all caps) “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type throughout. Helvetica Black is available in a variety of computer desk-top and phototype setting systems. Its name may vary, but the type must conform in style and thickness to the sample provided here. The spacing between letters and words should be set as “normal.” The type for the fuel name is 50 point (
1/2 inch (1.27 cm) cap height) “Helvetica Black,” knocked out of a 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep band. The type for the words “MINIMUM” and the principal component is 24 point (
1/4 inch (.64 cm) cap height). The type for percentage is 36 point (
3/8 inch (.96 cm) cap height).


(3) *For alternative liquid automotive fuel labels (two components).* All type should be set in upper case (all caps) “Helvetica Black” or equivalent type throughout. Helvetica Black is available in a variety of computer desk-top and phototype setting systems. Its name may vary, but the type must conform in style and thickness to the sample provided here. The spacing between letters and words should be set as “normal.” The type for the fuel name is 50 point (
1/2 inch (1.27 cm) cap height) “Helvetica Black,” knocked out of a 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep band. All other type is 24 point (
1/4 inch (.64 cm) cap height).


(c) *Colors*—(1) *For gasoline labels.* The basic color on all octane labels is process yellow. All type is process black. All borders are process black. All colors must be non-fade.


(2) *For alternative liquid automotive fuel labels other than biodiesel and biodiesel blends.* The background color on all the labels is Orange: PMS 1495 or its equivalent. The knock-out type within the black band is Orange: PMS 1495 or its equivalent. All other type is process black. All borders are process black. All colors must be non-fade.


(3) *For biodiesel and biodiesel blends.* The background color on all the labels is Blue: PMS 277 or its equivalent. The knock-out type within the black band is Blue: PMS 277 or its equivalent. All other type is process black. All borders are process black. All colors must be non-fade.


(d) *Contents.* Examples of the contents are shown in the sample labels. The proper octane rating for each gasoline must be shown. The proper automotive fuel rating for each alternative liquid automotive fuel must be shown. No marks or information other than that called for by this rule may appear on the labels.


(e) *Special label protection.* All labels must be capable of withstanding extremes of weather conditions for a period of at least one year. They must be resistant to automotive fuel, oil, grease, solvents, detergents, and water.


(f) *Illustrations of labels.* Labels should meet the specifications in this section, and should look like these examples, except the black print should be on the appropriately colored background.



---

[N] [58 FR 41375, Aug. 3, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 40163, July 11, 2008; 76 FR 19691, Apr. 8, 2011; 81 FR 2063, Jan. 14, 2016; 86 FR 59853, Oct. 29, 2021]





