# § 1026.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1026. Unless otherwise indicated, for the purposes of this part:


(a) *Account.* For purposes of § 1026.220:


(1) *Account* means a formal relationship with a futures commission merchant, including, but not limited to, those established to effect transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, options on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or options on a commodity.


(2) *Account* does not include:


(i) An account that the futures commission merchant acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or


(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.


(b) *Commodity* means any good, article, service, right, or interest described in Section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(4)).


(c) *Contract of sale* means any sale, agreement of sale or agreement to sell as described in Section 1a(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(7)).


(d) *Customer.* For purposes of § 1026.220:


(1) *Customer* means:


(i) A person that opens a new account with a futures commission merchant; and


(ii) An individual who opens a new account with a futures commission merchant for:


(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity; or


(B) An entity that is not a legal person.


(2) *Customer* does not include:


(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a state bank regulator;


(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or


(iii) A person that has an existing account, provided the futures commission merchant or introducing broker has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.


(3) When an account is introduced to a futures commission merchant by an introducing broker, the person or individual opening the account shall be deemed to be a *customer* of both the futures commission merchant and the introducing broker for the purposes of this section.


(e) *Financial institution* is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).


(f) *Futures commission merchant* means any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).


(g) *Introducing broker* means any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).


(h) *Option* means an agreement, contract or transaction described in Section 1a(26) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(26)).




