# ยง 600.335   Appeals.

(a) *Notice of eligibility appeal rights.* Eligibility determinations must include a notice of the right to appeal the determination, and instructions regarding how to file an appeal.


(b) *Appeals process.* Individuals must be given the opportunity to appeal the following actions through the appeals rules of the State's Medicaid program, unless granted an exception under paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) BHP eligibility determinations; and


(2) Delay, denial, reduction, suspension, or termination of health services, in whole or in part, including a determination about the type or level of service, after individuals exhaust appeals or grievances through the BHP standard health plans.


(c) *Exception.* Subject to HHS approval, a state may request to follow an appeals process for BHP eligibility determinations and health service matters that differs from the State's Medicaid program. In its request, the State must provide a clear description of the responsibilities and functions delegated to such an entity and ensure that:


(1) The State has oversight of any entity delegated the authority to administer appeals;


(2) The agency to which eligibility determinations or appeals decisions are delegated complies with all relevant Federal and State law, regulations and policies; and


(3) The agency to which eligibility determinations or appeals decisions are delegated informs applicants and beneficiaries how they can directly contact and obtain information from the agency.


(d) *Accessibility.* Notices must be provided and the appeals process must be conducted in a manner accessible to individuals with limited English proficiency and persons with disabilities.



---

[N] [79 FR 14140, Mar. 12, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 79555, Nov. 16, 2023]






