# § 660.402   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in the Magnuson Act and in § 600.10 of this chapter, the terms used in this subpart have the following meanings: 


*Barbless hook* means a hook with a single shank and point, with no secondary point or barb curving or projecting in any other direction. Where barbless hooks are specified, hooks manufactured with barbs can be made barbless by forcing the point of the barb flat against the main part of the point. 


*Commercial fishing* means fishing with troll fishing gear as defined annually under § 660.408, or fishing for the purpose of sale or barter of the catch. 


*Council* means the Pacific Fishery Management Council. 


*Dressed, head-off length of salmon* means the shortest distance between the midpoint of the clavicle arch and the fork of the tail, measured along the lateral line while the fish is lying on its side, without resort to any force or mutilation of the fish other than removal of the head, gills, and entrails.


*Dressed, head-off salmon* means salmon that have been beheaded, gilled, and gutted without further separation of vertebrae, and are either being prepared for on-board freezing, or are frozen and will remain frozen until landed. 


*Fishery management area* means the EEZ off the coasts of Washington, Oregon, and California, bounded on the north by the Provisional International Boundary between the United States and Canada, and bounded on the south by the International Boundary between the United States and Mexico. The northeastern, northern, and northwestern boundaries of the fishery management area are as follows: 


(1) Northeastern boundary—that part of a line connecting the light on Tatoosh Island, WA, with the light on Bonilla Point on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, southerly of the International Boundary between the United States and Canada (at 48°29′37″ N. lat., 124°43′33″ W. long.), and northerly of the point where that line intersects with the boundary of the U.S. territorial sea. 


(2) Northern and northwestern boundary is a line 
1 connecting the following coordinates: 


(3) The southern boundary of the fishery management area is the U.S.-Mexico International Boundary, which is a line connecting the following coordinates: 


(4) The inner boundaries of the fishery management area are subject to change if the Secretary assumes responsibility for the regulation of the salmon fishery within state waters under section 306(b) of the Magnuson Act. 


*Freezer trolling vessel* means a fishing vessel, equipped with troll fishing gear, that has a present capability for: 


(1) On board freezing of the catch. 


(2) Storage of the fish in a frozen condition until they are landed. 


*Land* or *landing* means to begin transfer of fish from a fishing vessel. Once transfer begins, all fish onboard the vessel are counted as part of the landing. 


*Pacific Coast Salmon Plan (PCSP or Salmon FMP)* means the Fishery Management Plan, as amended, for commercial and recreational ocean salmon fisheries in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) (3 to 200 nautical miles offshore) off Washington, Oregon, and California. The Salmon FMP was first developed by the Council and approved by the Secretary in 1978. The Salmon FMP was amended on October 31, 1984, to establish a framework process to develop and implement fishery management actions; the Salmon FMP has been subsequently amended at irregular intervals. Other names commonly used include: Pacific Coast Salmon Fishery Management Plan, West Coast Salmon Plan, West Coast Salmon Fishery Management Plan.


*Plugs* means artificial fishing lures made of wood or hard plastic with one or more hooks attached. Lures commonly known as “spoons,” “wobblers,” “dodgers,” and flexible plastic lures are not considered plugs, and may not be used where “plugs only” are specified. 


*Recreational fishing* means fishing with recreational fishing gear as defined annually under § 660.408 and not for the purpose of sale or barter. 


*Recreational fishing gear* will be defined annually under § 660.408. 


*Regional Administrator* means the Administrator, West Coast Region, NMFS. 


*Salmon* means any anadromous species of the family Salmonidae and genus *Oncorhynchus,* commonly known as Pacific salmon, including, but not limited to: 


*Total length of salmon* means the shortest distance between the tip of the snout or jaw (whichever extends furthest while the mouth is closed) and the tip of the longest lobe of the tail, without resort to any force or mutilation of the salmon other than fanning or swinging the tail. 


*Treaty Indian fishing* means fishing for salmon and steelhead in the fishery management area by a person authorized by the Makah Tribe to exercise fishing rights under the Treaty with the Makah, or by the Quileute, Hoh, or Quinault Tribes to exercise fishing rights under the Treaty of Olympia. 


*Troll fishing gear* will be defined annually under § 660.408. 


*Whole bait* means a hook or hooks baited with whole natural bait with no device to attract fish other than a flasher. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34572, July 2, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 29241, May 30, 2001; 76 FR 81858, Dec. 29, 2011; 78 FR 10559, Feb. 14, 2013; 87 FR 25430, Apr. 29, 2022]




