# § 520.1242f   Levamisol gel.

(a) *Specifications.* Each gram of gel contains 115 milligrams (11.5 percent) levamisol hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.350 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Eight milligrams of levamisole hydrochloride per kilogram of body weight, as a single oral dose.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Anthelmintic effective against the following nematode infections: Stomach worms (*Haemonchus, Trichostrongylus, Ostertagia*), intestinal worms (*Trichostrongylus, Cooperia, Nematodirus, Bunostomum, Oesophagostomum*), and lungworms (*Dictyocaulus*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Conditions of constant helminth exposure may require re-treatment within 2 to 4 weeks after the first treatment; do not administer to cattle within 6 days of slaughter for food; do not administer to dairy animals of breeding age; consult veterinarian before using in severely debilitated animals.


(2) *Breeding swine*—(i) *Amount.* Eight milligrams per kilogram of body weight (3.6 milligrams per pound) as a single oral dose.


(ii) *Conditions of use.* For treating breeding swine infected with the following nematodes: Large roundworms (*Ascaris suum*), nodular worms (*Oesophagostomum* spp.), lungworms (*Metastrongylus* spp.), intestinal threadworms (*Strongyloides ransomi*), and kidney worms (*Stephanurus dentatus*).


(iii) *Limitations.* May require retreatment in 4 to 5 weeks. Do not use within 11 days of slaughter for food. Consult your veterinarian for assistance before using in severely debilitated animals and in the diagnosis, treatment, and control of parasitism.



---

[N] [47 FR 22517, May 25, 1982; 47 FR 30242, July 13, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 11429, Mar. 18, 1983; 51 FR 29215, Aug. 15, 1986; 67 FR 63055, Oct. 10, 2002; 78 FR 28823, May 20, 2014]




