# ยง 986.175   Handler inventory.

(a) Handlers shall submit to the Council a year-end inventory report following August 31 each fiscal year. Handlers shall file such reports by September 10. Should September 10 fall on a weekend, reports are due by the first business day following September 10. Such reports shall be reported to the Council on APC Form 5 and include:


(1) The name and address of the handler;


(2) The total weight and type of inshell pecans in inventory, regardless of country of origin;


(3) The total weight and type of shelled pecans in inventory, regardless of country of origin;


(4) The total weight and type of inshell pecans committed, not shipped, for export and domestic shipments, and any uncommitted inventory, regardless of country of origin;


(5) The total weight and type of shelled pecans committed, not shipped, for export and domestic shipments, and any uncommitted inventory, regardless of country of origin;


(6) The combined total inventory for inshell and shelled pecans calculated on an inshell basis, and combined weight committed, not shipped, for exports and domestic shipments, and any uncommitted inventory;


(7) Total weight and type of domestic pecans handled for the fiscal year;


(8) Total assessments owed, assessments paid to date, and remaining assessments due to be paid by the due date of the year-end inventory report for the fiscal year;


(9) The average price paid for all inshell pecans purchased during the fiscal year regardless of how the pecans are handled, including pecans from outside the production area; and


(10) The average yield of shelled pecans per pound of inshell pecans shelled during the fiscal year.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [82 FR 56155, Nov. 28, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 8411, Mar. 8, 2019; 85 FR 19654, Apr. 8, 2020]




