# § 426.432   Discovery.

(a) *General rule.* If the ALJ orders discovery, the ALJ must establish a reasonable timeframe for discovery. 


(b) *Protective order*—(1) *Request for a protective order.* Any party receiving a discovery request may file a motion for a protective order before the date of production of the discovery. 


(2) *The ALJ granting of a protective order.* The ALJ may grant a motion for a protective order if (s)he finds that the discovery sought— 


(i) Is irrelevant or unduly repetitive; 


(ii) Is unduly costly or burdensome; or 


(iii) Unduly delays the proceeding. 


(c) *Types of discovery available.* A party may obtain discovery via a request for the production of documents, and/or via the submission of up to 10 written interrogatory questions, relating to a specific LCD. 


(d) *Types of documents.* For the purpose of this section, the term “documents” includes relevant information, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained in this section is interpreted to require the creation of a document. 


(e) *Types of discovery not available.* Requests for admissions, depositions, or any other forms of discovery, other than those permitted under paragraph (c) of this section, are not authorized. 


(f) *Privileged information and proprietary data.* The ALJ must not, under any circumstance, order the disclosure of privileged information or proprietary data filed under seal without the consent of the party who possesses the right to protection of the information. 


(g) *Notification.* The ALJ notifies all parties in writing when the discovery period closes. 




