# ยง 2552.46   What cost reimbursements and benefits do sponsors provide to Foster Grandparents?

Cost reimbursements and benefits include:


(a) *Stipend.* The stipend is paid for the time Foster Grandparents spend with their assigned children, for earned leave, for administrative leave, and for attendance at official project events. The sponsor may pay a stipend for administrative leave for extenuating circumstances lasting up to seven calendar days but must obtain AmeriCorps' written approval to pay a stipend for administrative leave based on extenuating circumstances lasting beyond seven calendar days.




(b) *Insurance.* A Foster Grandparent is provided with the AmeriCorps specified minimum levels of insurance as follows:


(1) *Accident insurance.* Accident insurance covers Foster Grandparents for personal injury during travel between their homes and places of assignment, during their service, during meal periods while serving as a Foster Grandparent, and while attending project-sponsored activities. Protection shall be provided against claims in excess of any benefits or services for medical care or treatment available to the Foster Grandparent from other sources.


(2) *Personal liability insurance.* Protection is provided against claims in excess of protection provided by other insurance. Such protection does not include professional liability coverage.


(3) *Excess automobile liability insurance.* (i) For Foster Grandparents who drive in connection with their service, protection is provided against claims in excess of the greater of either:


(A) Liability insurance Foster Grandparents carry on their own automobiles; or


(B) The limits of applicable state financial responsibility law, or in its absence, levels of protection to be determined by AmeriCorps for each person, each accident, and for property damage.


(ii) Foster Grandparents who drive their personal vehicles to, or on, assignments or project-related activities, shall maintain personal automobile liability insurance equal to or exceeding the levels established by AmeriCorps.


(c) *Transportation.* Foster Grandparents shall receive assistance with the cost of transportation to and from, assignments and official project activities, including orientation, training, and recognition events.


(d) *Meals.* Foster Grandparents may be provided assistance with the cost of meals taken while on assignment, within limits of the project's available resources.


(e) *Recognition.* Foster Grandparent volunteers shall be provided recognition for their service.


(f) *Physical examination.* Foster Grandparents may be provided a physical examination or assistance with the cost of a physical examination prior to assignment and annually thereafter.


(g) *Other volunteer expenses.* Foster Grandparents may also be reimbursed for allowable out-of-pocket expenses incurred while performing their assignments.



---

[N] [64 FR 14126, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 19775, Apr. 14, 2004; 69 FR 56718, Sept. 22, 2004. Redesignated at 72 FR 48585, Aug. 24, 2007; 83 FR 64651, Dec. 17, 2018; 89 FR 70543, Aug. 30, 2024]




