# § 63.502   Equipment leak, fenceline monitoring, and heat exchange system provisions.

(a) The owner or operator of each affected source, shall comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7), and (b) through (m) of this section. Except as specified in § 63.170(b), surge control vessels required to be controlled by subpart H may, alternatively, comply with the Group 1 storage vessel provisions specified in § 63.484.


(1) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, on and after July 15, 2027,” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, on and after July 15, 2027,”.


(2) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n),” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.


(3) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o),” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11),”.


(4) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(p),” for each occurrence of “For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(12),”.


(5) Substitute “§ 63.508” for each occurrence of “§ 63.108”.


(6) Substitute “in chloroprene service” for each occurrence of “in ethylene oxide service”.


(7) If an affected source uses, produces, stores, or emits chloroprene, the action level for chloroprene in § 63.184(d)(3) is 0.3 µg/m
3 on an annual average basis for the purposes of this subpart. Additionally, the sampling period Δc in § 63.184(e)(4)(iii) and (f)(1)(iii) is 0.3 µg/m
3 instead of 0.8 µg/m
3 for the purposes of this subpart.


(b) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section are exempt from the requirements contained in § 63.170. 


(1) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only styrene-butadiene latex; 


(2) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive latex products other than styrene-butadiene latex, located downstream of the stripping operations; 


(3) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only high conversion latex products; 


(4) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers located downstream of the stripping operations at affected sources subject to the back-end residual organic HAP limitation located in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) that are complying through the use of stripping technology, as specified in § 63.495;


(5) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only styrene; 


(6) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only acrylamide; and 


(7) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that receive only epichlorohydrin. 


(c) The compliance date for the equipment leak provisions in this section is provided in § 63.481(d). Whenever subpart H of this part refers to the compliance dates specified in any paragraph contained in § 63.100, the compliance dates listed in § 63.481(d) shall instead apply, for the purposes of this subpart. When § 63.182(c)(4) refers to “sources subject to subpart F,” the phrase “sources subject to this subpart” shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, extensions of compliance dates are addressed by § 63.481(e) instead of by § 63.182(a)(6), for the purposes of this subpart. 


(d) For an affected source producing polybutadiene rubber or styrene butadiene rubber by solution, the conditions in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section are applicable. 


(1) Indications of liquids dripping, as defined in subpart H of this part, from bleed ports in pumps and agitator seals in light liquid service, shall not be considered a leak. For the purposes of this subpart, a “bleed port” is a technologically-required feature of the pump or seal whereby polymer fluid used to provide lubrication and/or cooling of the pump or agitator shaft exits the pump, thereby resulting in a visible dripping of fluid. 


(2) For reciprocating pumps in heavy liquid service, owners and operators are not required to comply with the requirements in § 63.169 and associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements. 


(3) Reciprocating pumps in light liquid service are exempt from § 63.163 and associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements, if recasting the distance piece or reciprocating pump replacement would be necessary to comply with that section. 


(e) Owners and operators of an affected source subject to this subpart are not required to submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.182(a)(1) and § 63.182(b). 


(f) As specified in § 63.506(e)(5), the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.182(a)(2) and § 63.182(c) shall be submitted within 150 days (rather than 90 days) of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.481(d) for the equipment leak provisions. 


(g) The information specified by § 63.182(a)(3) and § 63.182(d) (i.e., Periodic Reports) shall be submitted as part of the Periodic Reports required by § 63.506(e)(6). 


(h) If specific items of equipment, comprising part of a process unit subject to this subpart, are managed by different administrative organizations (e.g., different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any EPPU within the affected source for all purposes under subpart H of this part, providing there is no delay in achieving the applicable compliance date. 


(i) When § 63.166(b)(4)(i) refers to Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 9 of subpart G of this subpart that are also listed on Table 5 of this subpart. 




(j) When the provisions of subpart H of this part specify that Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used, either Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The use of Method 25A must conform with the requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of emissions.


(2) The use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

 


(k)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, an owner or operator using a flare to comply with the requirements of this section shall conduct a compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.504(c).


(2) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (k)(1) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.




(l) When the term “equipment” is used in subpart H of this part, the definition of this term in § 63.482(b) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(m) The phrase “the provisions of subparts F, I, or U of this part” shall apply instead of the phrase “the provisions of subpart F or I of this part” throughout §§ 63.163 and 63.168, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the phrase “subparts F, I, and U” shall apply instead of the phrase “subparts F and I” in § 63.174(c)(2)(iii), for the purposes of this subpart. 




(n) The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (n)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) When the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used in § 63.104, the term “elastomer product process unit” (or EPPU) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart, with the exception noted in paragraph (n)(2) of this section.


(2) When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart, except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c) of this subpart” is used in the first sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an EPPU, except for EPPUs meeting the condition specified in § 63.480(b)” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3),” is used in the last sentence of § 63.104(a) of subpart F of this part, the term “an EPPU” shall apply for purposes of this subpart.


(3) When § 63.104 refers to table 4 to subpart F of this part or table 9 to subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on table 5 to this subpart.


(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 63.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1), the requirements in § 63.506(a) and § 63.506(h) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.506(e)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.


(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.481(d)(6).


(7) Substitute “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n),” for each occurrence of “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.


(8) § 63.104(k) of subpart F of this part does not apply. Instead for each source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), owners and operators must not inject water into or dispose of water through any heat exchange system in an EPPU if the water contains any amount of chloroprene, has been in contact with any process stream containing chloroprene, or the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.482. 



---

[N] [62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 37722, July 15, 1997; 65 FR 38070, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43254, May 16, 2024]




