# § 410.145   Requirements for entities.

(a) *Deemed entities.* (1) Except as permitted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an entity may be deemed to meet a set of quality standards described in § 410.144 if the following conditions are met:


(i) The entity has submitted necessary documentation and is fully accredited (and periodically reaccredited) by an organization approved by CMS under § 410.142. 


(ii) The entity is not accredited by an organization that owns or controls the entity. 


(2) Before August 27, 2002 CMS may deem an entity to meet the NSDSMEP quality standards described in § 410.144(b), if the entity provides the Medicare contractor that will process its claims with a copy of a current certificate the entity received from the ADA that verifies the training program it furnishes meets the NSDSMEP quality standards described in § 410.144(b). 


(b) *Approved entities.* An entity may be approved to furnish training if the entity meets the following conditions: 


(1) Before submitting a claim for Medicare payment, forwards a copy of its certificate or proof of accreditation from an organization approved by CMS under § 410.142 indicating that the entity meets a set of quality standards described in § 410.144, or before August 27, 2002, submits documentation of its current ADA recognition status. 


(2) Agrees to submit to evaluation (including onsite inspections) by CMS (or its agent) to validate its approved organization's accreditation process. 


(3) Authorizes its approved organization to release to CMS a copy of its most recent accreditation evaluation, and any accreditation-related information that CMS may require. 


(4) At a minimum, allows the QIO (under a contract with CMS) access to beneficiary or group training records. 


(c) *Effective dates*—(1) *Deemed to meet quality standards.* Except as permitted in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the date on which an entity is deemed to meet a set of quality standards described in § 410.144 is the later of one of the following dates: 


(i) The date CMS approves and recognizes the accreditation organization to accredit entities to furnish training.


(ii) The date an organization accredits the entity to meet a set of quality standards described in § 410.144. 


(2) *Approved to furnish training.* CMS covers the training furnished by an entity beginning on the later of one of the following dates: 


(i) The date CMS approves the deemed entity as meeting the conditions for coverage in § 410.141(e). 


(ii) The date the entity is deemed to meet a set of quality standards described in § 410.144. 


(d) *Removal of approved status*—(1) *General rule.* CMS removes an entity's approved status for any of the following reasons: 


(i) CMS determines, on the basis of its own evaluation or the results of the accreditation evaluation, that the entity does not meet a set of quality standards described in § 410.144.


(ii) CMS withdraws its approval of the organization that deemed the entity to meet a set of quality standards described in § 410.144. 


(iii) The entity fails to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. 


(2) *Effective date.* The effective date of CMS's removal of an entity's approved status is 60 days after the date of CMS's notice to the entity. 




