# § 165.156   Regulated Navigation Area: East Rockaway Inlet to Atlantic Beach Bridge, Nassau County, Long Island, New York.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a Regulated Navigation Area: All waters of East Rockaway Inlet in an area bounded by lines drawn from position 40°34′56″ N, 073°45′19″ W, (approximate position of East Rockaway Inlet Breakwater Light, LLNR 31500) running north to a point of land on the northwest side of the inlet at position 40°35′28″ N, 073°46′12″ W, thence easterly along the shore to the east side of the Atlantic Beach Bridge, State Route 878, over East Rockaway Inlet, thence across the bridge to the south side of East Rockaway Inlet, thence westerly along the shore and across the water to the beginning.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations contained in 33 CFR 165.10, 165.11, and 165.13 apply.


(2) In accordance with the general regulations, the following regulations apply to vessels carrying petroleum products in excess of 250 barrels:


(i) The vessel must have plans in place to maintain a minimum of two feet under keel clearance at all times.


(ii) A vessel requiring a nighttime transit through East Rockaway Inlet may only do so only after receiving approval from the Captain of the Port Long Island Sound.


(iii) Vessels are prohibited from transiting East Rockaway Inlet if a small craft advisory or greater has been issued for the area unless specific approval is received from the Captain of the Port Long Island Sound.


(iv) In an emergency, any vessel may deviate from the regulations in this section to the extent necessary to avoid endangering the safety of persons, the environment, and or property. If deviation from the regulations is necessary, the master or their designee shall inform the Coast Guard as soon as it is practicable to do so.


(c) *Waivers.* (1) The Captain of the Port Long Island Sound may, upon request, waive any regulation in this section.


(2) An application for a waiver must state the need for the waiver and describe the proposed vessel operations through the Regulated Navigation Area.



---

[N] [USCG-2008-0085, 74 FR 57887, Nov. 10, 2009, as amended by USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44283, July 27, 2015]


















