# § 72.100   Periodic examinations.

(a) Each operator of a coal mine shall provide to each miner periodic examinations including chest x-rays, spirometry, symptom assessment, and occupational history at a frequency specified in this section and at no cost to the miner.


(1) Each operator shall use facilities approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to provide examinations specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) The results of examinations or tests made pursuant to this section shall be furnished only to the Secretary, Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), and at the request of the miner, to the miner's designated physician.


(b) *Voluntary examinations.* Each operator shall provide the opportunity to have the examinations specified in § 72.100(a) at least every 5 years to all miners employed at a coal mine. The examinations shall be available during a 6-month period that begins no less than 3.5 years and not more than 4.5 years from the end of the last 6-month period.


(c) *Mandatory examinations.* For each miner who begins work at a coal mine for the first time, the operator shall provide examinations specified in § 72.100(a) as follows:


(1) An initial examination no later than 30 days after beginning employment;


(2) A follow-up examination no later than 3 years after the initial examination in paragraph (c)(1); and


(3) A follow-up examination no later than 2 years after the examinations in paragraph (c)(2) if the chest x-ray shows evidence of pneumoconiosis or the spirometry examination indicates evidence of decreased lung function. For this purpose, evidential criteria will be defined by NIOSH.


(d) Each mine operator shall develop and submit for approval to NIOSH a plan in accordance with 42 CFR part 37 for providing miners with the examinations specified in § 72.100(a) and a roster specifying the name and current address of each miner covered by the plan.


(e) Each mine operator shall post on the mine bulletin board at all times the approved plan for providing the examinations specified in § 72.100(a).




