# § 240.17a-14   Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS.

(a) *Scope of section.* This section shall apply to every broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15 of the Act that offers services to a retail investor.


(b) *Form CRS.* You must:


(1) Prepare Form CRS 17 CFR 249.640, by following the instructions in the form.


(2) File your current Form CRS electronically with the Commission through the Central Registration Depository (“Web CRD®”) operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., and thereafter, file an amended Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS.


(3) Amend your Form CRS as required by the instructions in the form.


(c) *Delivery of Form CRS.* You must:


(1) Deliver to each retail investor your current Form CRS before or at the earliest of:


(i) A recommendation of an account type, a securities transaction; or an investment strategy involving securities;


(ii) Placing an order for the retail investor; or


(iii) The opening of a brokerage account for the retail investor.


(2) Deliver to each retail investor who is an existing customer your current Form CRS before or at the time you:


(i) Open a new account that is different from the retail investor's existing account(s);


(ii) Recommend that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into a new or existing account or investment; or


(iii) Recommend or provide a new brokerage service or investment that does not necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an existing account.


(3) Post the current Form CRS prominently on your public website, if you have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible for retail investors.


(4) Communicate any changes made to Form CRS to each retail investor who is an existing customer within 60 days after the amendments are required to be made and without charge. The communication can be made by delivering the amended Form CRS or by communicating the information through another disclosure that is delivered to the retail investor.


(5) Deliver a current Form CRS to each retail investor within 30 days upon request.


(d) *Other disclosure obligations.* Delivering a Form CRS in compliance with this section does not relieve you of any other disclosure obligations arising under the federal securities laws and regulations or other laws or regulations (including the rules of a self-regulatory organization).


(e) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Current Form CRS* means the most recent version of the Form CRS.


(2) *Retail investor* means a natural person, or the legal representative of such natural person, who seeks to receive or receives services primarily for personal, family or household purposes.


(f) *Transition rule.* (1) If you are registered with the Commission prior to June 30, 2020, pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, you must file your initial Form CRS with the Commission in accordance with section (b)(2) of this section, beginning on May 1, 2020, and by no later than June 30, 2020.


(2) On or after June 30, 2020, if you file an application for registration with the Commission or have an application for registration pending with the Commission as a broker or dealer pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, you must begin to comply with this section by the date on which your registration application becomes effective pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, including by filing your Form CRS in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(3) Within 30 days after the date by which you are first required by paragraph (f) of this section to electronically file your initial Form CRS with the Commission, you must deliver to each of your existing customers who is a retail investor your current Form CRS.


(4) As of the date by which you are first required to electronically file your Form CRS with the Commission pursuant to this section, you must begin using your Form CRS as required to comply with paragraph (c) of this rule.



---

[N] [84 FR 33629, July 12, 2019]






