# ยง 36.1   Notice provisions applicable to applications for transmission services under section 211 of the Federal Power Act.

(a) *Definitions.* (1) *Affected party* means each affected electric utility, each affected State regulatory authority, and each affected Federal power marketing agency.


(2) *Affected electric utility* means each electric utility that has made arrangements for the sale or purchase of electric energy to be transmitted pursuant to the particular application for transmission services, and each transmitting utility, as defined in section 3(23) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 796(23), being requested to transmit such electric energy.


(3) *Affected State regulatory authority* means a State regulatory authority, as defined in section 3(21) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 796(21), regulating the rates and charges of each affected electric utility.


(4) *Affected Federal power marketing agency* means a Federal power marketing agency that operates in the service area of each affected electric utility.


(b) *Additional filing requirements.* Any person filing an application for transmission services pursuant to section 211 of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 824j, shall include the following:


(1) The applicant must include a form of notice of the application suitable for publication in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with the specifications in ยง 385.203(d) of this chapter. The form of notice shall be on electronic media as specified by the Secretary.


(2) A sworn statement that actual notice, including the applicant's name, the date of the application, the names of the affected parties, and a brief description of the transmission services sought (including the proposed dates for initiating and terminating the requested transmission services, the total amount of transmission capacity requested, a brief description of the character and nature of the transmission services being requested, and whether the transmission services requested are firm or non-firm) has been served, pursuant to Rule 2010 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, ยง 385.2010 of this chapter, on each affected party. Such statement shall enumerate each person so served.


(c) *Other filing requirements.* All other filing requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure remain in effect for applications under this section.



---

[N] [Order 560, 58 FR 57737, Oct. 27, 1993, as amended by Order 593, 62 FR 1283, Jan. 9, 1997; Order 647, 69 FR 32438, June 10, 2004]




