# § 358.7   Transparency rule.

(a) *Contemporaneous disclosure.* (1) If a transmission provider discloses non-public transmission function information, other than information identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in a manner contrary to the requirements of § 358.6, the transmission provider must immediately post the information that was disclosed on its Internet Web site.


(2) If a transmission provider discloses, in a manner contrary to the requirements of § 358.6, non-public transmission customer information, critical energy infrastructure information (CEII) as defined in § 388.113(c)(1) of this chapter or any successor provision, or any other information that the Commission by law has determined is to be subject to limited dissemination, the transmission provider must immediately post notice on its Web site that the information was disclosed.


(b) *Exclusion for specific transaction information.* A transmission provider's transmission function employee may discuss with its marketing function employee a specific request for transmission service submitted by the marketing function employee. The transmission provider is not required to contemporaneously disclose information otherwise covered by § 358.6 if the information relates solely to a marketing function employee's specific request for transmission service.


(c) *Voluntary consent provision.* A transmission customer may voluntarily consent, in writing, to allow the transmission provider to disclose the transmission customer's non-public information to the transmission provider's marketing function employees. If the transmission customer authorizes the transmission provider to disclose its information to marketing function employees, the transmission provider must post notice on its Internet Web site of that consent along with a statement that it did not provide any preferences, either operational or rate-related, in exchange for that voluntary consent.


(d) *Posting written procedures on the public Internet.* A transmission provider must post on its Internet Web site current written procedures implementing the standards of conduct.


(e) *Identification of affiliate information on the public Internet.* (1) A transmission provider must post on its Internet Web site the names and addresses of all its affiliates that employ or retain marketing function employees.


(2) A transmission provider must post on its Internet Web site a complete list of the employee-staffed facilities shared by any of the transmission provider's transmission function employees and marketing function employees. The list must include the types of facilities shared and the addresses of the facilities.


(3) The transmission provider must post information concerning potential merger partners as affiliates that may employ or retain marketing function employees, within seven days after the potential merger is announced.


(f) *Identification of employee information on the public Internet.* (1) A transmission provider must post on its Internet Web site the job titles and job descriptions of its transmission function employees.


(2) A transmission provider must post a notice on its Internet Web site of any transfer of a transmission function employee to a position as a marketing function employee, or any transfer of a marketing function employee to a position as a transmission function employee. The information posted under this section must remain on its Internet Web site for 90 days. No such job transfer may be used as a means to circumvent any provision of this part. The information to be posted must include:


(i) The name of the transferring employee,


(ii) The respective titles held while performing each function (*i.e.,* as a transmission function employee and as a marketing function employee), and


(iii) The effective date of the transfer.


(g) *Timing and general requirements of postings on the public Internet.* (1) A transmission provider must update on its Internet Web site the information required by this part 358 within seven business days of any change, and post the date on which the information was updated. A public utility may also post the information required to be posted under part 358 on its OASIS, but is not required to do so.


(2) In the event an emergency, such as an earthquake, flood, fire or hurricane, severely disrupts a transmission provider's normal business operations, the posting requirements in this part may be suspended by the transmission provider. If the disruption lasts longer than one month, the transmission provider must so notify the Commission and may seek a further exemption from the posting requirements.


(3) All Internet Web site postings required by this part must be sufficiently prominent as to be readily accessible.


(h) *Exclusion for and recordation of certain information exchanges.* (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 358.5(a) and 358.6, a transmission provider's transmission function employees and marketing function employees may exchange certain non-public transmission function information, as delineated in § 358.7(h)(2), in which case the transmission provider must make and retain a contemporaneous record of all such exchanges except in emergency circumstances, in which case a record must be made of the exchange as soon as practicable after the fact. The transmission provider shall make the record available to the Commission upon request. The record may consist of hand-written or typed notes, electronic records such as e-mails and text messages, recorded telephone exchanges, and the like, and must be retained for a period of five years.


(2) The non-public information subject to the exclusion in § 358.7(h)(1) is as follows:


(i) Information pertaining to compliance with Reliability Standards approved by the Commission, and


(ii) Information necessary to maintain or restore operation of the transmission system or generating units, or that may affect the dispatch of generating units.


(i) *Posting of waivers.* A transmission provider must post on its Internet Web site notice of each waiver of a tariff provision that it grants in favor of an affiliate, unless such waiver has been approved by the Commission. The posting must be made within one business day of the act of a waiver. The transmission provider must also maintain a log of the acts of waiver, and must make it available to the Commission upon request. The records must be kept for a period of five years from the date of each act of waiver.




