# § 180.417   Reporting and record retention requirements.

(a) *Vehicle certification.* (1) Each owner of a specification cargo tank must retain the manufacturer's certificate, the manufacturer's ASME U1A data report, where applicable, and related papers certifying that the specification cargo tank identified in the documents was manufactured and tested in accordance with the applicable specification. This would include any certification of emergency discharge control systems required by § 173.315(n) of this subchapter or § 180.405(m). The owner must retain the documents throughout his ownership of the specification cargo tank and for one year thereafter. In the event of a change in ownership, the prior owner must retain non-fading photo copies of these documents for one year.


(2) Each motor carrier who uses a specification cargo tank motor vehicle must obtain a copy of the manufacturer's certificate and related papers or the alternative report authorized by paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section and retain the documents as specified in this paragraph (a)(2). A motor carrier who is not the owner of a cargo tank motor vehicle must also retain a copy of the vehicle certification report for as long as the cargo tank motor vehicle is used by that carrier and for one year thereafter. The information required by this section must be maintained at the company's principal place of business or at the location where the vehicle is housed or maintained. The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor carrier who leases a cargo tank for less than 30 days. 


(3) *DOT Specification cargo tanks*—(i) *Non-ASME Code stamped cargo tanks*—If an owner does not have a manufacturer's certificate for a cargo tank and he wishes to certify it as a specification cargo tank, the owner must perform appropriate tests and inspections, under the direct supervision of a Registered Inspector, to determine if the cargo tank conforms with the applicable specification. Both the owner and the Registered Inspector must certify that the cargo tank fully conforms to the applicable specification. The owner must retain the certificate, as specified in this section.


(ii) *ASME Code Stamped cargo tanks.* If the owner does not have the manufacturer's certificate required by the specification and the manufacturer's data report required by the ASME, the owner may contact the National Board for a copy of the manufacturer's data report, if the cargo tank was registered with the National Board, or copy the information contained on the cargo tank's identification and ASME Code plates. Additionally, both the owner and the Registered Inspector must certify that the cargo tank fully conforms to the specification. The owner must retain such documents, as specified in this section.


(b) *Test or inspection reporting.* Each person performing a test or inspection as specified in § 180.407 must prepare a written report, in English, in accordance with this paragraph.


(1) Each test or inspection report must include the following information:


(i) Owner's and manufacturer's unique serial number for the cargo tank;


(ii) Name of cargo tank manufacturer;


(iii) Cargo tank DOT or MC specification number;


(iv) MAWP of the cargo tank;


(v) Minimum thickness of the cargo tank shell and heads when the cargo tank is thickness tested in accordance with § 180.407(d)(5), § 180.407(e)(3), § 180.407(f)(3), or § 180.407(i); 


(vi) Indication of whether the cargo tank is lined, insulated, or both; and


(vii) Indication of special service of the cargo tank (e.g., transports material corrosive to the tank, dedicated service, etc.)


(2) Each test or inspection report must include the following specific information as appropriate for each individual type of test or inspection:


(i) Type of test or inspection performed;


(ii) Date of test or inspection (month and year);


(iii) Listing of all items tested or inspected, including information about pressure relief devices that are removed, inspected and tested or replaced, when applicable (type of device, set to discharge pressure, pressure at which device opened, pressure at which device re-seated, and a statement of disposition of the device (e.g., reinstalled, repaired, or replaced)); information regarding the inspection of upper coupler assemblies, when applicable (visually examined in place, or removed for examination); and, information regarding leakage and pressure testing, when applicable (pneumatic or hydrostatic testing method, identification of the fluid used for the test, test pressure, and holding time of test);


(iv) Location of defects found and method of repair;


(v) ASME or National Board Certificate of Authorization number of facility performing repairs, if applicable;


(vi) Name and address of person performing test;


(vii) Registration number of the facility or person performing the test;


(viii) Continued qualification statement, such as “cargo tank meets the requirements of the DOT specification identified on this report” or “cargo tank fails to meet the requirements of the DOT specification identified on this report”;


(ix) DOT registration number of the registered inspector; and


(x) Dated signature of the registered inspector and the cargo tank owner.


(3) The owner and the motor carrier, if not the owner, must each retain a copy of the test and inspection reports until the next test or inspection of the same type is successfully completed. This requirement does not apply to a motor carrier leasing a cargo tank for fewer than 30 days.


(c) *Additional requirements for Specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks.* (1) After completion of the pressure test specified in § 180.407(g)(3), each motor carrier operating a Specification MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tank in anhydrous ammonia, liquefied petroleum gas, or any other service that may cause stress corrosion cracking, must make a written report containing the following information:


(i) Carrier's name, address of principal place of business, and telephone number;


(ii) Complete identification plate data required by Specification MC 330 or MC 331, including data required by ASME Code;


(iii) Carrier's equipment number;


(iv) A statement indicating whether or not the tank was stress relieved after fabrication;


(v) Name and address of the person performing the test and the date of the test;


(vi) A statement of the nature and severity of any defects found. In particular, information must be furnished to indicate the location of defects detected, such as in weld, heat-affected zone, the liquid phase, the vapor phase, or the head-to-shell seam. If no defect or damage was discovered, that fact must be reported;


(vii) A statement indicating the methods employed to make repairs, who made the repairs, and the date they were completed. Also, a statement of whether or not the tank was stress relieved after repairs and, if so, whether full or local stress relieving was performed;


(viii) A statement of the disposition of the cargo tank, such as “cargo tank scrapped” or “cargo tank returned to service”; and


(ix) A statement of whether or not the cargo tank is used in anhydrous ammonia, liquefied petroleum gas, or any other service that may cause stress corrosion cracking. Also, if the cargo tank has been used in anhydrous ammonia service since the last report, a statement indicating whether each shipment of ammonia was certified by its shipper as containing 0.2 percent water by weight.


(2) A copy of the report must be retained by the carrier at its principal place of business during the period the cargo tank is in the carrier's service and for one year thereafter. Upon a written request to, and with the approval of, the Field Administrator, Regional Service Center, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration for the region in which a motor carrier has its principal place of business, the carrier may maintain the reports at a regional or terminal office.


(3) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a motor carrier leasing a cargo tank for less than 30 days.


(d) *Supplying certificates and reports.* Each person offering a DOT-specification cargo tank for sale or lease must provide the purchaser or lessee a copy of the cargo tank certificate of compliance, records of repair, modification, stretching, or rebarrelling; and the most recent inspection and test reports made under this section. Copies of such reports must be provided to the lessee if the cargo tank is leased for more than 30 days.



---

[N] [Amdt. 180-2, 54 FR 25032, June 12, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 21038, May 22, 1990; 55 FR 37069, Sept. 7, 1990; 56 FR 27879, June 17, 1991; 58 FR 12905, Mar. 8, 1993; Amdt. 180-2, 59 FR 1786, Jan. 12, 1994; Amdt. 180-10, 61 FR 51343, Oct. 1, 1996; 63 FR 52850, Oct. 1, 1998; 64 FR 28052, May 24, 1999; 65 FR 50463, Aug. 18, 2000; 67 FR 61016, Sept. 27, 2002; 68 FR 19290, Apr. 18, 2003; 68 FR 52372, Sept. 3, 2003; 69 FR 54047, Sept. 7, 2004; 70 FR 34077, June 13, 2005; 76 FR 43532, July 20, 2011; 85 FR 75717, Nov. 25, 2020]




