# § 1.382-3   Definitions and rules relating to a 5-percent shareholder.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Entity*—(i) *In general.* An entity is any corporation, estate, trust, association, company, partnership or similar organization. An entity includes a group of persons who have a formal or informal understanding among themselves to make a coordinated acquisition of stock. A principal element in determining if such an understanding exists is whether the investment decision of each member of a group is based upon the investment decision of one or more other members. However, the participation by creditors in formulating a plan for an insolvency workout or a reorganization in a title 11 or similar case (whether as members of a creditors' committee or otherwise) and the receipt of stock by creditors in satisfaction of indebtedness pursuant to the workout or reorganization do not cause the creditors to be considered an entity.


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Effective date.* (A) *In general.* The second, third and fourth sentences of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section and *Examples 1, 2* and *3* of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section apply to testing dates (determined by applying such sentence and examples) on or after November 20, 1990, but with respect to any group of persons that pursuant to a formal or informal understanding among themselves makes a coordinated acquisition of stock before November 20, 1990, only if the group increases or decreases its ownership of stock of the loss corporation relative to its percentage ownership interest at the close of November 19, 1990, by five percentage points or more on or after November 20, 1990.


(B) *Special rule.* If pursuant to a formal or informal understanding among themselves a group consisting only of regulated investment companies under section 851, qualified trusts under section 401, common trust funds under section 584, or trusts or estates that are clients of a trust department of a bank under section 581, make a coordinated acquisition of stock before November 20, 1990, the second, third and fourth sentences of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section and *Examples 1, 2,* and *3* of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section apply for testing dates (determined by applying such sentences and examples) on or after November 20, 1990, only if the group increases its ownership of stock of the loss corporation relative to its percentage ownership interest at the close of November 19, 1990, by five percentage points or more on or after November 20, 1990.


(C) *Example.* The following example illustrates the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.


(2) [Reserved]


(b)-(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Modification of the segregation rules of § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii) and (3)*—(1)* Introduction.* This paragraph (j) exempts, in whole or in part, certain transfers of stock from the segregation rules of § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii) and (3). Terms and nomenclature used in this paragraph (j), and not otherwise defined herein, have the same meanings as in section 382 and the regulations issued under section 382.


(2) *Small issuance exception*—(i) *In general.* Section 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B) does not apply to a small issuance (as defined in paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section), except to the extent that the total amount of stock issued in that issuance and all other small issuances previously made in the same taxable year (determined in each case on issuance) exceeds the small issuance limitation. This paragraph (j)(2) does not apply to an issuance of stock that, by itself, exceeds the small issuance limitation. 


(ii) *Small issuance defined.* “Small issuance” means an issuance (other than an issuance described in paragraph (j)(6) of this section) by the loss corporation of an amount of stock not exceeding the small issuance limitation. For purposes of this paragraph (j)(2)(ii), all stock issued in the issuance is taken into account, including stock owned immediately after the issuance by a 5-percent shareholder that is not a direct public group. 


(iii) *Small issuance limitation*—(A) *In general.* For each taxable year, the loss corporation may, at its option, apply this paragraph (j)(2)— 


(*1*) On a corporation-wide basis, in which case the small issuance limitation is 10 percent of the total value of the loss corporation's stock outstanding at the beginning of the taxable year (excluding the value of stock described in section 1504(a)(4)); or 


(*2*) On a class-by-class basis, in which case the small issuance limitation is 10 percent of the number of shares of the class outstanding at the beginning of the taxable year. 


(B) *Class of stock defined.* For purposes of this paragraph (j)(2)(iii), a class of stock includes all stock with the same material terms. 


(C) *Adjustments for stock splits and similar transactions.* Appropriate adjustments to the number of shares of a class outstanding at the beginning of a taxable year must be made to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend to which section 305(a) applies, recapitalization, or similar transaction occurring during the taxable year. 


(D) *Exception.* The loss corporation may not apply this paragraph (j)(2)(iii) on a class-by-class basis if, during the taxable year, more than one class of stock is issued in a single issuance (or in two or more issuances that are treated as a single issuance under paragraph (j)(8)(ii) of this section). 


(iv) *Short taxable years.* In the case of a taxable year that is less than 365 days, the small issuance limitation is reduced by multiplying it by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the taxable year, and the denominator of which is 365. 


(3) *Other issuances of stock for cash*—(i) *In general.* If the loss corporation issues stock solely for cash, § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B) does not apply to such stock in an amount equal (as a percentage of the total stock issued) to one-half of the aggregate percentage ownership interest of direct public groups immediately before the issuance. 


(ii) *Solely for cash*—(A) *In general.* A share of stock is not issued solely for cash if— 


(*1*) The acquiror, as a condition of acquiring that share for cash, is required to purchase other stock for consideration other than cash; or 


(*2*) The share is acquired upon the exercise of an option that was not issued solely for cash or was not distributed with respect to stock. 


(B) *Related issuances.* Paragraph (j)(8)(i) of this section (relating to the treatment of one or more issuances as a single issuance) does not apply in determining whether stock is issued solely for cash. 


(iii) *Coordination with paragraph (j)(2) of this section.* This paragraph (j)(3) does not apply to a small issuance exempted in whole from § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B) under paragraph (j)(2) of this section. In the case of a small issuance exempted in part from § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B) under paragraph (j)(2) of this section, this paragraph (j)(3) applies only to the portion of the issuance not so exempted, and that portion is treated as a separate issuance for purposes of this paragraph (j)(3). 


(4) *Limitation on exempted stock.* The total amount of stock that is exempted from the application of § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B) under paragraphs (j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section cannot exceed the total amount of stock issued in the issuance less the amount of that stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder (other than a direct public group) immediately after the issuance. Except to the extent that the loss corporation has actual knowledge to the contrary, any increase in the amount of the loss corporation's stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder on the day of the issuance is considered to be attributable to an acquisition of stock in the issuance. 


(5) *Proportionate acquisition of exempted stock*—(i) *In general.* Each direct public group that exists immediately before an issuance to which paragraph (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this section applies is treated as acquiring its proportionate share of the amount of stock exempted from the application of § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B) under paragraph (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this section. 


(ii) *Actual knowledge of greater overlapping ownership.* Under the last sentence of § 1.382-2T(k)(2), the loss corporation may treat direct public groups existing immediately before an issuance to which paragraph (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this section applies as acquiring in the aggregate more stock than the amount determined under paragraph (j)(5)(i) of this section, but only if the loss corporation actually knows that the aggregate amount acquired by those groups in the issuance exceeds the amount so determined. 


(6) *Exception for equity structure shifts.* This paragraph (j) does not apply to any issuance of stock in an equity structure shift, except that paragraph (j)(2) of this section applies (if its requirements are met) to the issuance of stock in a recapitalization under section 368(a)(1)(E). 


(7) *Transitory ownership by underwriter disregarded.* For purposes of § 1.382-2T(g)(1) and (j), and this paragraph (j), the transitory ownership of stock by an underwriter of the issuance is disregarded. 


(8) *Certain related issuances.* For purposes of this paragraph (j), two or more issuances (including issuances of stock by first tier or higher tier entities) are treated as a single issuance if— 


(i) The issuances occur at approximately the same time pursuant to the same plan or arrangement; or 


(ii) A principal purpose of issuing the stock in separate issuances rather than in a single issuance is to minimize or avoid an owner shift under the rules of this paragraph (j). 


(9) *Application to options.* The principles of this paragraph (j) apply for purposes of applying § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(D) (relating to the deemed acquisition of stock as a result of the ownership of an option). 


(10) *Issuance of stock pursuant to the exercise of certain options.* If stock is issued on the exercise of a transferable option issued by the loss corporation, § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(F) does not apply and, in applying the last sentence of § 1.382-2T(k)(2), the loss corporation must take into account any transfers of the option (including transfers described in § 1.382-2T(h)(4)(xi)). Therefore, even if transferable options are distributed pro rata to members of existing public groups, the actual knowledge exception of § 1.382-2T(k)(2) applies only to the extent that the loss corporation actually knows that the persons acquiring stock on exercise of the options are members of a pre-existing public group. Moreover, if transferable options are issued to more than one public group, § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(F) does not apply to treat the options as exercised pro rata by each such public group as the options are actually exercised. 


(11) *Application to first tier and higher tier entities*—(i) *In general.* The principles of paragraphs (j)(1) through (10) and paragraph (j)(12) apply to issuances of stock by a first tier entity or a higher tier entity that owns 5 percent or more of the loss corporation's stock (determined without regard to § 1.382-2T(h)(2)(1)(A)).


(ii) *Small issuance limitation.* In applying paragraph (j)(2) of this section to any issuance of stock by a first tier or higher tier entity, the small issuance limitations of paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section are computed by reference to the stock value and the stock classes of the issuing corporation.


(12) *Certain non-stock ownership interests.* As the context may require, a non-stock ownership interest in an entity other than a corporation is treated as stock for purposes of this paragraph (j).


(13) *Secondary transfer exception.* The segregation rules of § 1.382-2T(j)(3)(i) will not apply to the transfer of a direct ownership interest in the loss corporation by a first tier entity or an individual that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation to public shareholders. Instead, each public group existing at the time of the transfer will be treated under § 1.382-2T(j)(3)(i) as acquiring its proportionate share of the stock exempted from the application of § 1.382-2T(j)(3)(i). The segregation rules also will not apply if an ownership interest in an entity that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of § 1.382-2T(h)(2)(i)(A)) is transferred to a public owner or a 5-percent owner who is not a 5-percent shareholder of the loss corporation. Instead, provided that the transferor is either a 5-percent owner that is a 5-percent shareholder of the loss corporation or a higher tier entity owning five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of section 1.382-2T(h)(2)(i)(A)), each public group of the entity existing at the time of the transfer is treated under § 1.382-2T(j)(3)(i) as acquiring its proportionate share of the transferred ownership interest. With regard to a transferor that is neither a 5-percent shareholder of the loss corporation nor a higher tier entity owning five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of § 1.382-2T(h)(2)(i)(A)), see generally § 1.382-2T(e)(1)(ii) (disregarding these transactions if the transferee is not a 5-percent shareholder).


(14) *Small redemption exception*—(i) *In general.* Section 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C) does not apply to a small redemption (as defined in paragraph (j)(14)(ii) of this section), except to the extent that the total amount of stock redeemed in that redemption and all other small redemptions previously made in the same taxable year (determined in each case on redemption) exceeds the small redemption limitation. This paragraph (j)(14) does not apply to a redemption of stock that, by itself, exceeds the small redemption limitation.


(ii) *Small redemption defined. Small redemption* means a redemption of public shareholders by the loss corporation of an amount of stock not exceeding the small redemption limitation.


(iii) *Small redemption limitation*—(A) *In general.* For each taxable year, the loss corporation may, at its option, apply this paragraph (j)(14)—


(*1*) On a corporation-wide basis, in which case the small redemption limitation is 10 percent of the total value of the loss corporation's stock outstanding at the beginning of the taxable year (excluding the value of stock described in section 1504(a)(4)); or


(*2*) On a class-by-class basis, in which case the small redemption limitation is 10 percent of the number of shares of the class redeemed that are outstanding at the beginning of the taxable year.


(B) *Class of stock defined.* For purposes of this paragraph (j)(14)(iii), a class of stock includes all stock with the same material terms.


(C) *Adjustments for stock splits and similar transactions.* Appropriate adjustments to the number of shares of a class outstanding at the beginning of a taxable year must be made to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend to which section 305(a) applies, recapitalization, or similar transaction occurring during the taxable year.


(D) *Exception.* The loss corporation may not apply this paragraph (j)(14)(iii) on a class-by-class basis if, during the taxable year, more than one class of stock is redeemed in a single redemption (or in two or more redemptions that are treated as a single redemption under paragraph (j)(14)(v) of this section).


(E) *Short taxable years.* In the case of a taxable year that is less than 365 days, the small redemption limitation is reduced by multiplying it by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the taxable year, and the denominator of which is 365.


(iv) *Proportionate redemption of exempted stock*—(A) *In general.* Each direct public group that exists immediately before a redemption to which this paragraph (j)(14) applies is treated as having been redeemed of its proportionate share of the amount of stock exempted from the application of § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C) under this paragraph (j)(14).


(B) *Actual knowledge of greater redemption.* Under the last sentence of § 1.382-2T(k)(2), the loss corporation may treat direct public groups existing immediately before a redemption to which this paragraph (j)(14) applies as having been redeemed of more stock than the amount determined under paragraph (j)(14)(iv)(A) of this section, but only if the loss corporation actually knows that the amount redeemed from those groups in the redemption exceeds the amount so determined.


(v) *Certain related redemptions.* For purposes of this paragraph (j)(14), two or more redemptions (including redemptions of stock by first tier or higher tier entities) are treated as a single redemption if—


(A) The redemptions occur at approximately the same time pursuant to the same plan or arrangement; or


(B) A principal purpose of redeeming the stock in separate redemptions rather than in a single redemption is to minimize or avoid an owner shift under the rules of this paragraph (j)(14).


(vi) *Certain non-stock ownership interests.* As the context may require, a non-stock ownership interest in an entity other than a corporation is treated as stock for purposes of this paragraph (j)(14).


(vii) *Application to first tier and higher tier entities*—(A) *In general.* The principles of this paragraph (j)(14) apply to redemptions of stock by a first tier entity or a higher tier entity that owns 5 percent of the loss corporation stock (determined without regard to § 1.382-2T(h)(2)(i)(A)).


(B) *Small redemption limitation.* In applying this paragraph (j)(14) to any redemption of stock by a first tier or a higher tier entity, the small redemption limitations of paragraph (j)(14)(iii)(A) of this section are computed by reference to the stock value and the stock classes of the redeeming corporation.


(15) *Exception for first tier and higher tier entities*—(i) *In general.* The segregation rules of § 1.382-2T(j)(3)(iii) will not apply to a transaction involving stock in a first tier or a higher tier entity if, after taking into account the results of such transaction and all other transactions occurring on that date, the first tier or higher tier entity owns 10 percent or less (by value) of all the outstanding stock (without regard to § 1.382-2(a)(3)) of the loss corporation.


(ii) *Anti-avoidance rule.* The rules of paragraph (j)(15)(i) of this section do not apply to a transaction involving an ownership interest in a first tier or higher tier entity if the loss corporation, directly or through one or more persons, has participated in planning or structuring the transaction with a view to avoiding the application of the segregation rules. For this purpose, a transaction includes any event that would result in segregation under § 1.382-2T(j)(3)(iii), absent the application of this paragraph (j)(15), and any event (for example, the formation of a holding company) occurring as part of the same plan that includes the event that would result in segregation (without the application of this paragraph (j)(15)). Other anti-avoidance rules continue to be applicable. See, for example, §§ 1.382-2T(k)(4) and 1.382-3(a)(1).


(iii) *Special rules.* If application of paragraph (j)(15)(i) of this section results in the combination of public groups, then—


(A) The amount of increase in the percentage of stock ownership of the continuing public group will be the sum of its increase and a proportionate amount of any increase by any public group that is combined with the continuing public group (the former public group); and


(B) The continuing public group's lowest percentage ownership will be the sum of its lowest percentage ownership and a proportionate amount of the former public group's lowest percentage ownership.


(iv) *Ownership of the loss corporation.* In making the determination under paragraph (j)(15)(i) of this section—


(A) The rules of § 1.382-2T(h)(2) will not apply;


(B) The entity will be treated as owning the loss corporation stock that it actually owns, and any other loss corporation stock if that other stock would be attributed to the entity under section 318(a) (without regard to paragraph (4) thereof) unless an option is treated as exercised under § 1.382-4(d)); and


(C) The operating rules of paragraph (j)(15)(v) of this section will apply.


(v) *Operating rules.* Subject to the principles of § 1.382-2T(k)(4), a loss corporation may establish the ownership limitation of paragraph (j)(15)(i) of this section through either—


(A) Actual knowledge; or


(B) Absent actual knowledge to the contrary, the presumptions regarding stock ownership in § 1.382-2T(k)(1).


(16) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (j) are illustrated by the following examples:


(B) *December redemption.* The December redemption is a small redemption because the number of shares redeemed (90) does not exceed 106, the small redemption limitation (10 percent of the number of common shares outstanding on January 1, 2014). However, under paragraph (j)(14)(i) of this section, only 46 of the 90 shares redeemed are exempted from the segregation rules of § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C) because the total number of shares of common stock redeemed in the July and December redemptions exceeds 106, the small redemption limitation, by 44. Accordingly, under paragraph (j)(14)(iv) of this section, Public L is treated as having 46 shares redeemed in the December redemption. Section 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C) applies to the remaining 44 shares redeemed. Accordingly, Public L is segregated into two different public groups immediately before the transaction (and thereafter) so that the redeemed interests (Public RL) are treated as part of a public group that is separate from the ownership interests that are not redeemed (Public CL). Therefore, as a result of the December redemption, Public CL's interest in L increases by 4.4 percentage points (from 95.6 percent (956/1,000) to 100 percent (910/910)) on the December 31, 2014 testing date. For purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs on any subsequent testing date having a testing period that includes the December redemption, Public CL is treated as a 5-percent shareholder whose percentage ownership interests in L increased by 4.4 percentage points as a result of such redemption.


(17) *Effective/applicability date.* This paragraph (j) generally applies to issuances or deemed issuances of stock in taxable years beginning on or after November 4, 1992. However, paragraphs (j)(11)(ii) and (j)(13) through (15) of this section and *Examples 5* through *13* of paragraph (j)(16) of this section apply to testing dates occurring on or after October 22, 2013, other than with respect to the sale of a Program Instrument by the Treasury Department. For purposes of this paragraph (j)(17), a Program Instrument is an instrument issued pursuant to a Program, as defined in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2010-2 (2010-2 IRB 251 (December 16, 2009)) (see § 601.601(a)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), or a Covered Instrument, as defined in that Notice. Taxpayers may apply paragraphs (j)(11)(ii) and (j)(13) through (15) of this section and *Examples 5* through *13* of paragraph (j)(16) of this section in their entirety (other than with respect to a sale of a Program Instrument by the Treasury Department) to all testing dates that are included in a testing period beginning before and ending on or after October 22, 2013. However, the provisions described in the preceding sentence may not be applied to any date on or before the date of any ownership change that occurred before October 22, 2013, under the regulations in effect before October 22, 2013, and they may not be applied as described in the preceding sentence if such application would result in an ownership change occurring on a date before October 22, 2013, that did not occur under the regulations in effect before October 22, 2013. See § 1.382-3(j)(14)(ii) and (iii), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 1994 for the application of paragraph (j)(10) of this section to stock issued on the exercise of certain options exercised on or after November 4, 1992, and for an election to apply paragraphs (j)(1) through (12) of this section retroactively to certain issuances and deemed issuances of stock occurring in taxable years prior to November 4, 1992.


(k) *Special rules for certain regulated investment companies*—(1) *In general.* The segregation rules of § 1.382-2T(j)(2) do not apply to the issuance (as described in § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(B)(1)(*ii*)) or the redemption (as described in § 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C)) of any redeemable security, as defined in 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(32), by a regulated investment company in the ordinary course of business.


(2) *Effective date*—(i) *General rule.* Paragraph (k)(1) of this section applies to testing dates after December 31, 1986. A corporation may file an amended return for taxable years ending before August 21, 1992 (subject to any applicable statute of limitations) to take into account paragraph (k)(1) of this section only if corresponding adjustments are made in amended returns for all affected taxable years ending after December 31, 1986 (subject to any applicable statute of limitations).


(ii) *Election to apply prospectively.* A corporation may elect to apply paragraph (k)(1) of this section only to testing dates on or after October 29, 1991. The election must be made on the first return which is filed after October 20, 1992 by stating on such return, “This is an Election To Apply § 1.382-3(k)(1) Only to Testing Dates on or After October 29, 1991.”



---

[N] [T.D. 8428, 57 FR 38282, Aug. 24, 1992. Redesignated by T.D. 8440, 57 FR 45712, Oct. 5, 1992; 57 FR 52827, Nov. 5, 1992; T.D. 8490, 59 FR 51573, Oct. 4, 1993; T.D. 9638, 78 FR 62423, Oct. 22, 2013; T.D. 9685, 79 FR 44282, July 31, 2014; T.D. 9721, 80 FR 31997, June 5, 2015]




