# ยง 192.1007   What are the required elements of an integrity management plan?

A written integrity management plan must contain procedures for developing and implementing the following elements:


(a) *Knowledge.* An operator must demonstrate an understanding of its gas distribution system developed from reasonably available information.


(1) Identify the characteristics of the pipeline's design and operations and the environmental factors that are necessary to assess the applicable threats and risks to its gas distribution pipeline.


(2) Consider the information gained from past design, operations, and maintenance.


(3) Identify additional information needed and provide a plan for gaining that information over time through normal activities conducted on the pipeline (for example, design, construction, operations or maintenance activities).


(4) Develop and implement a process by which the IM program will be reviewed periodically and refined and improved as needed.


(5) Provide for the capture and retention of data on any new pipeline installed. The data must include, at a minimum, the location where the new pipeline is installed and the material of which it is constructed.


(b) *Identify threats.* The operator must consider the following categories of threats to each gas distribution pipeline: Corrosion (including atmospheric corrosion), natural forces, excavation damage, other outside force damage, material or welds, equipment failure, incorrect operations, and other issues that could threaten the integrity of its pipeline. An operator must consider reasonably available information to identify existing and potential threats. Sources of data may include incident and leak history, corrosion control records (including atmospheric corrosion records), continuing surveillance records, patrolling records, maintenance history, and excavation damage experience.


(c) *Evaluate and rank risk.* An operator must evaluate the risks associated with its distribution pipeline. In this evaluation, the operator must determine the relative importance of each threat and estimate and rank the risks posed to its pipeline. This evaluation must consider each applicable current and potential threat, the likelihood of failure associated with each threat, and the potential consequences of such a failure. An operator may subdivide its pipeline into regions with similar characteristics (e.g., contiguous areas within a distribution pipeline consisting of mains, services and other appurtenances; areas with common materials or environmental factors), and for which similar actions likely would be effective in reducing risk.


(d) *Identify and implement measures to address risks.* Determine and implement measures designed to reduce the risks from failure of its gas distribution pipeline. These measures must include an effective leak management program (unless all leaks are repaired when found).


(e) *Measure performance, monitor results, and evaluate effectiveness.* (1) Develop and monitor performance measures from an established baseline to evaluate the effectiveness of its IM program. An operator must consider the results of its performance monitoring in periodically re-evaluating the threats and risks. These performance measures must include the following:


(i) Number of hazardous leaks either eliminated or repaired as required by ยง 192.703(c) of this subchapter (or total number of leaks if all leaks are repaired when found), categorized by cause;


(ii) Number of excavation damages;


(iii) Number of excavation tickets (receipt of information by the underground facility operator from the notification center);


(iv) Total number of leaks either eliminated or repaired, categorized by cause;


(v) Number of hazardous leaks either eliminated or repaired as required by ยง 192.703(c) (or total number of leaks if all leaks are repaired when found), categorized by material; and


(vi) Any additional measures the operator determines are needed to evaluate the effectiveness of the operator's IM program in controlling each identified threat.


(f) *Periodic Evaluation and Improvement.* An operator must re-evaluate threats and risks on its entire pipeline and consider the relevance of threats in one location to other areas. Each operator must determine the appropriate period for conducting complete program evaluations based on the complexity of its system and changes in factors affecting the risk of failure. An operator must conduct a complete program re-evaluation at least every five years. The operator must consider the results of the performance monitoring in these evaluations.


(g) *Report results.* Report, on an annual basis, the four measures listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iv) of this section, as part of the annual report required by ยง 191.11. An operator also must report the four measures to the state pipeline safety authority if a state exercises jurisdiction over the operator's pipeline.



---

[N] [74 FR 63934, Dec. 4, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 5499, Feb. 1, 2011; 86 FR 2241, Jan. 11, 2021]




