# § 418.11   Specialized definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart:


(a) Except as provided below, the general definitions, abbreviations and methods of analysis set forth in 40 CFR part 401 shall apply to this subpart.


(b) The term *process wastewater* means any water which, during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product. The term “process wastewater” does not include contaminated non-process wastewater, as defined below.


(c) The term, *contaminated non-process wastewater* shall mean any water including precipitation runoff which, during manufacturing or processing, comes into incidental contact with any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or waste product by means of: (1) Precipitation runoff; (2) accidental spills; (3) accidental leaks caused by the failure of process equipment and which are repaired or the discharge of pollutants therefrom contained or terminated within the shortest reasonable time which shall not exceed 24 hours after discovery or when discovery should reasonably have been made, whichever is earliest; and (4) discharges from safety showers and related personal safety equipment, and from equipment washings for the purpose of safe entry, inspection and maintenance; provided that all reasonable measures have been taken to prevent, reduce, eliminate and control to the maximum extent feasible such contact and provided further that all reasonable measures have been taken that will mitigate the effects of such contact once it has occurred.


(d) The term *ten-year 24-hour rainfall event* shall mean the maximum 24-hour precipitation event with a probable recurrence interval of once in 10 years as defined by the National Weather Service in technical paper No. 40, “Rainfall Frequency Atlas of the United States”, May 1961, and subsequent amendments in effect as of the effective date of this regulation.


(e) The term *25-year 24-hour rainfall event* shall mean the maximum 24-hour precipitation event with a probable recurrence interval of once in 25 years as defined by the National Weather Service in technical paper No. 40, “Rainfall Frequency Atlas of the United States”, May 1961, and subsequent amendments in effect, as of the effective date of this regulation.


(f) The term *calcium sulfate storage pile runoff* shall mean the calcium sulfate transport water runoff from or through the calcium sulfate pile, and the precipitation which falls directly on the storage pile and which may be collected in a seepage ditch at the base of the outer slopes of the storage pile, provided such seepage ditch is protected from the incursion of surface runoff from areas outside of the outer perimeter of the seepage ditch.



---

[N] [39 FR 12836, Apr. 8, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 20583, May 19, 1976]




