# ยง 1005.217   Quality control plan.

(a) A quality control plan sets forth a Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee Lender, or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's procedures for ensuring the quality of the Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan Origination, underwriting, closing, and/or servicing, as applicable. The purpose of the quality control plan is to ensure the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee and non-Direct Guarantee Lender's compliance with Section 184 Program requirements and protect HUD and the entities from unacceptable or unreasonable risks. A Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee Lender, and Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must adopt and implement a quality control plan.


(b) A quality control plan must:


(1) Be maintained and updated, as needed, to comply with all applicable Section 184 Program requirements.


(2) Cover all policies and procedures, whether performed by the Lender or an agent, to ensure full compliance with all Section 184 Program requirements.


(3) Provide the Lender with information sufficient to adequately monitor and oversee the Lender's compliance and measure performance, as it relates to the Lender's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan activity.


(4) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to retain all quality control plan related documentation, including selection criteria, review documentation, findings, and actions to mitigate findings, for a period of three years from initial quality control review, or from the last action taken to mitigate findings, whichever is later.


(5) Allow the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to use employees or agents to perform the quality control functions, so long as they do not directly participate in any Loan administration processes as outlined in Section 184 Program Guidance.


(6) Ensure the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender assumes full responsibility for any agent's conduct of quality control reviews.


(7) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to train all staff, agents working with the Section 184 Program on Loan administration and quality control processes and provide staff access to all current Section 184 legal authorities and policy guidance. The Lender, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must retain copies of training documentation for all staff working on the Section 184 Program in accordance with ยง 1005.219(d)(3). Failure to comply with the training and documentation requirements may subject the Direct Guarantee Lender and Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to sanctions in accordance with ยง 1005.907.


(8) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to review a random statistical sample of rejected Loan applications within 90 days from the end of the month in which the decision was made. The reviews must be conducted no less frequently than monthly and with the goal of ensuring that the reasons given for the rejection were valid and each rejection received concurrence of an appropriate staff person with sufficient approval authority. The Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must submit a report of this review in form and timeframe as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.


(9) Ensure that the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's employees and agents are eligible to participate in the Section 184 Program. Any employees or agents deemed ineligible shall be restricted from participating in the Section 184 Program.


(10) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to refer any suspected fraud or material misrepresentation by any party whatsoever directly to HUD's Office of Inspector General (OIG) and the Office of Native American Programs.


(11) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to report all material deficiencies and submit a corrective action plan to HUD within 30 days, or a timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(12) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to conduct appropriate Loan level quality control procedures, in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.


(13) Require the Lender Applicant to comply with any other administrative requirement as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(c) Lender Applicants applying to be a Direct Guarantee Lender under ยง 1005.209, must submit a quality control plan in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and include the following additional requirements:


(1) Require the Lender Applicant to collect and forward all Loan Guarantee Fees in accordance with the Section 184 Program requirements, with sufficient documentation evidencing the timely collection and payment of the fees to HUD.


(2) Require the Lender Applicant to verify that the endorsement case binder is submitted to HUD for guarantee within required time frames.


(3) Require the Lender Applicant to review a random statistical sample of its endorsement case binders for potential fraud, material misrepresentations, or other findings on a quarterly basis. The Lender Applicant must investigate and determine if fraud, material misrepresentation or other findings occurred.


(4) Require the Lender Applicant to perform quality control review of its Sponsored Entities in the same manner and under the same conditions as required for the Lender's own operation.


(5) Where applicable, require the Sponsor to apply paragraph (b) of this section to its Sponsored Entities.


(d) All Sponsored Entities shall comply with paragraph (b) of this section and provide a quality control plan directly to their Sponsor in accordance with their sponsorship agreement.






