# ยง 2411.5   Procedure for obtaining information.

(a) Any person who desires to inspect or copy any records, documents, or other information of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG, covered by this part, other than those specified in ยง 2411.4(a)(1) and (c), shall submit an electronic written request via the FOIAXpress system or a written, facsimiled, or email request (*see* FOIAXpress, office and email addresses listed at *https://www.flra.gov/foia_contact*) as follows:


(1) If the request is for records, documents, or other information in the Authority, the Office of General Counsel, or the Panel, it should be made to the Office of the Solicitor, Washington, DC;


(2) If the request is for records, documents or other information in the offices of the IG in Washington, DC, it should be made to the IG, Washington, DC.


(b) Each request under this part should be clearly and prominently identified as a request for information under the FOIA and, if submitted by mail or otherwise submitted in an envelope or other cover, should be clearly identified as such on the envelope or other cover. A request shall be considered an agreement by the requester to pay all applicable fees charged under ยง 2411.13, up to $25.00, unless the requester seeks a waiver of fees. When making a request, the requester may specify a willingness to pay a greater or lesser amount. Fee charges will be assessed for the full allowable direct costs of document search, review, and duplication, as appropriate, in accordance with ยง 2411.13. If a request does not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, it shall not be deemed received by the Office of the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate.



---

[N] [88 FR 67059, Sept. 29, 2023]






