# § 721.10888   Siloxanes and Silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino)propyl Me, di-Me, reaction products with cadmium zinc selenide sulfide, lauric acid and oleylamine.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as siloxanes and silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino)propyl Me, di-Me, reaction products with cadmium zinc selenide sulfide, lauric acid and oleylamine (PMN P-15-59; CAS No. 1623456-05-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63 (a)(1) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p) (three months and eighteen months). A significant new use of the substance is manufacture, process, or use the chemical substance other than as a down converter for an optical filter for light emitting diodes used in displays, or other than in a liquid formulation.


(iii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85. It is a significant new use to dispose of the chemical substance other than by incineration in a permitted hazardous waste incinerator.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016]




