# § 63.8050   How do I comply with emissions averaging for stationary process vessels at existing sources?

(a) As an alternative to complying with the requirements in Table 1 to this subpart for each individual stationary process vessel, you may elect to comply with emissions averaging for stationary process vessels greater than or equal to 250 gallons (gal) at your existing affected source as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(b) *General requirements.* (1) A State may prohibit averaging of HAP emissions and require the owner or operator of an existing affected source to comply with the emission limits and work practice standards in Table 1 to this subpart.


(2) All stationary process vessels in an emissions averaging group must be equipped with a tightly-fitting vented cover.


(c) *Initial compliance.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions averaging alternative, you must comply with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Estimate uncontrolled emissions from each affected stationary process vessel in pounds per batch using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(2), except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. For the purposes of this section, uncontrolled emissions means the emissions from the vessel if it were equipped only with a tightly-fitting vented cover. You must identify the range of typical operating parameters and perform the calculation using the values that result in the highest emissions, and you must document the operating parameters and resulting emissions calculations in the precompliance report.


(i) When you are required to calculate uncontrolled emissions from heating, you may not calculate emissions using Equation 13 of subpart GGG of this part 63.


(ii) The statement in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(B) that “the partial pressure of HAP shall be assumed to be 25 percent of the saturated value if the purge flow rate is greater than 100 scfm” does not apply. For the purposes of this subpart, multiply the HAP partial pressure in Equation 12 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart GGG by a HAP-specific saturation factor determined in accordance with Equations 1 through 3 of this section. Solve equation 1 of this section iteratively beginning with saturation factors (in the right-hand side of the equation) of 1.0 for each condensable compound. Stop iterating when the calculated saturation factors for all compounds are the same to two significant figures for subsequent iterations. Note that for multi-component emission streams, saturation factors must be calculated for all condensable compounds, not just the HAP. 


(2) Estimate controlled emissions in pounds per batch for each vessel as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, estimate controlled emissions as if the vessel were controlled in compliance with entry 2.b.i. in Table 1 to this subpart. 


(ii) Estimate the controlled emissions using the control level achieved on November 15, 1990 if that value is greater than the applicable control level required by entry 2.b.i in Table 1 to this subpart. 


(iii) Estimate the controlled emissions using the control level required to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart if that level is greater than the applicable control level required by entry 2.b.i in Table 1 to this subpart and the other rule was in effect before the date when you request approval to comply with emissions averaging. 


(3) Determine actual emissions in pounds per batch for each vessel in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If emissions are routed through a closed-vent system to a condenser control device, determine controlled emissions using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(3).


(ii) If emissions are routed through a closed-vent system to any control device other than a condenser, determine actual emissions after determining the efficiency of the control device using the procedures in subpart SS of this part as specified in § 63.8000(c).


(iii) If the vessel is vented to the atmosphere, then actual emissions are equal to the uncontrolled emissions estimated in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(4) Provide rationale in the precompliance report for why the sum of the actual emissions will be less than the sum of emissions from the vessels if they had been controlled in accordance with Table 1 to this subpart. The approved actual emissions calculated according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section are emission limits that must be incorporated into your operating permit. 


(d) *Continuous compliance.* (1) Maintain a monthly log of the number of batches produced that can be correlated with the emissions estimates per batch developed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. 


(2) Sum the actual emissions for all of the process vessels in the emissions averaging group every three months, with the first 3-month period beginning on the compliance date, and compare the resulting total with the total emissions for the vessels calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Compliance is demonstrated if the sum of the actual emissions is less than the emissions estimated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(3) For control devices, establish operating limits and monitor as specified in § 63.8000. 


(e) *Recordkeeping and reporting.* Comply with §§ 63.8070, 63.8075, and 63.8080. 



---

[N] [68 FR 69185, Dec. 11, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 25682, May 13, 2005; 85 FR 49744, Aug. 14, 2020]




