# ยง 892.209   Can I cancel FEHB coverage at any time?

If you are participating in premium conversion you may cancel your FEHB coverage:


(a) *During the annual open season.* A cancellation made during the annual open season is effective at midnight of the day before the first day of the first pay period that begins in the next year. 


(b) *Within 60 days after you have a qualifying life event.* A cancellation made because of a qualifying life event takes effect at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which your employing office receives your appropriate request to cancel your enrollment. Your cancellation of coverage must be consistent with and correspond to your qualifying life event. For example, if you get married and you gain other insurance coverage because your spouse's employer provides health insurance for your spouse and you, then canceling FEHB coverage would be consistent with that qualifying life event. If you add an eligible family member, canceling coverage would generally not be consistent with that qualifying life event.


(c) If you are subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in ยง 890.301(g)(3) of this chapter, you may not cancel your coverage as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and you have at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless you provide documentation to your agency that you have other coverage for your child or children.



---

[N] [65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 56525, 56528, Oct. 1, 2003; 69 FR 56929, Sept. 23, 2004]




