# § 165.763   Moving and Fixed Security Zone, Port of Fredericksted, Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands.

(a) *Location.* A moving and fixed security zone is established that surrounds all cruise ships entering, departing, mooring or anchoring in the Port of Fredericksted, Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. The security zone extends from the cruise ship outward and forms a 50-yard radius around the vessel, from surface to bottom. The security zone for a cruise ship entering port is activated when the vessel is within one nautical mile west of the Fredericksted Pier lights. The security zone for a vessel is deactivated when the cruise ship is beyond one nautical mile west of the Fredericksted Pier lights. The Fredericksted Pier lights are at the following coordinates: 17°42′49″ N, 64°53′19″ W. All coordinates are North American Datum 1983 (NAD 1983).


(b) *Regulations.* (1) Under general regulations in § 165.33 of this part, entering, anchoring, mooring, or transiting in these zones is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port San Juan or their designated representative.


(2) Persons desiring to transit through a security zone may contact the Captain of the Port San Juan who can be reached on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) or by calling (787) 289-2041, 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or designated representative.


(3) Sector San Juan will attempt to notify the maritime community of periods during which these security zones will be in effect by providing advance notice of scheduled arrivals and departures of cruise ships via a broadcast notice to mariners.


(c) *Definition.* As used in this section, *cruise ship* means a passenger vessel greater than 100 feet in length that is authorized to carry more than 150 passengers for hire, except for a ferry.


(d) *Authority.* In addition to 46 U.S.C. 70034 and 46 U.S.C. 70051, the authority for this section includes 46 U.S.C. 70116.



---

[N] [COTP San Juan 05-002, 70 FR 22256, Apr. 29, 2005]




