# § 4284.1120   Servicing RISE grants.

The Agency will service RISE grants in accordance with the requirements specified in departmental regulations, the financial assistance agreement, 7 CFR part 1951, subparts E and O, other than 7 CFR 1951.709(d)(1)(i)(B)(iv), and the requirements in § 4284.1120, except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(a) *Inspections.* Grantees must permit periodic inspection of the project records and operations by a representative of the Agency.


(b) *Programmatic changes.* Grantees may make changes to an approved project's costs, scope, contractor, or vendor subject to the provisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. If the changes result in lowering the project's score to below what would have qualified the application for an award, the Agency will not approve the changes.


(1) *Prior Agency approval.* The grantee must obtain prior Agency approval for any change to the scope, contractor, or vendor of the approved project. Changes in project cost will require Agency approval as outlined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(i) Grantees must submit requests for programmatic changes in writing to the Agency for Agency approval.


(ii) Failure to obtain prior Agency approval of any such change could result in such remedies as suspension, termination, and recovery of grant funds.


(iii) Prior Agency approval is required for all increases in project costs. Prior Agency approval is required for a decrease in project cost only if the decrease would have a negative effect on the long-term viability of the project. A decrease in project cost that does not have a negative impact on long-term viability requires Agency notification prior to disbursement of funds. If project costs decrease, the Agency will reduce the grant amount, if necessary, to maintain a maximum grant amount of no greater than 80 percent of total project activities as required in § 4284.1114(a).


(2) *Changes in project cost or scope.* If there is a significant change in project cost or any change in project scope, then the grantee's funding needs, eligibility, and scoring, as applicable, will be reassessed. Any decreases in Agency funds will be based on revised project costs and other factors, including Agency regulations used at the time of grant approval.


(3) *Change of contractor or vendor.* When seeking a change, the grantee must submit a written request to the Agency for approval. The proposed new contractor or vendor must have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Agency. The written request must contain sufficient information to demonstrate to the Agency's satisfaction that such change maintains project integrity. If the Agency determines that project integrity continues to be demonstrated, the grantee will be allowed to make the change. If the Agency determines that project integrity is no longer demonstrated, the change will not be approved and the grantee has the following options:


(i) Continue with the original contractor or vendor;


(ii) Find another contractor or vendor that has qualifications and experience acceptable to the Agency to complete the project; or


(iii) Terminate the grant by providing a written request to the Agency. No additional funding will be available from the Agency if costs for the project have increased. Any Agency decision will be provided in writing to the lead applicant.


(c) *Transfer of Applicant or Ownership.* Any change to the jobs accelerator partnership prior to the obligation of funds must be approved by the Agency and will only be considered if the partnership entities are eligible in accordance with § 4284.1112. After the project is obligated and operational, the applicant grantee may request, in writing, a transfer of the financial assistance agreement to another entity. Subject to Agency approval provided in writing, the financial assistance agreement may be transferred to another entity provided:


(1) The entity is determined by the Agency to be an eligible lead applicant entity under this subpart; and


(2) The scope of the project for which the Agency funds will be used remain unchanged.


(d) *Disposition of acquired property.* Grantees must abide by the disposition of acquired asset requirements as outlined in 2 CFR part 200 and departmental regulations.


(e) *Financial management system and records.* The grantee must provide for financial management systems and maintain records as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Financial management system.* The grantee will provide for a financial system that will include:


(i) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant;


(ii) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supporting activities, together with documentation to support the records. Those records must contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income; and


(iii) Effective control over and accountability for all funds. The grantee must adequately safeguard all such assets and must ensure that funds are used solely for authorized purposes.


(2) *Records.* The grantee will retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least three (3) years after completion of the grant period, except that the records must be retained beyond the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved or if directed by the United States. The Agency and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, must have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the grantee that are pertinent to the specific grant for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcripts.


(f) *Audit requirements.* If applicable, grantees must provide an annual audit in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. The Agency may exercise its right to do a program audit after the end of the project to ensure that all funding supported eligible project costs.


(g) *Grant disbursement.* The Agency will determine, based on the applicable departmental regulations, whether disbursement of a grant will be by advance or reimbursement. Any funds disbursed in advance of the expense shall be used within three months and the financial need substantiated in writing by the grantee. Form SF-270 or Form SF-271 must be completed by the grantee and submitted to the Agency no more often than monthly to request either an advance or reimbursement of funds.


(h) *Reporting Requirements.* Financial and project performance reports must be provided by grantees and contain the information specified in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Federal Financial Reports.* Between grant approval and completion of project (*i.e.,* construction), SF-425, “Federal Financial Report” will be required of all grantees as applicable on a semiannual basis. The grantee will complete the project within the total sums available to it, including the grant, in accordance with the scope of work and any necessary modifications thereof prepared by grantee and approved by the Agency.


(2) *Performance reports.* Grantees shall submit a performance report semi-annually for the first two years, and then annually thereafter, with the first report submitted no later than six months after receiving a grant under this section. This report will include, but not be limited to, the following:


(i) All activities funded with the grant funds;


(ii) Evaluation of progress towards strategic initiatives identified in the application for the grant, including a discussion of any issues which may have occurred;


(iii) Measurement of progress using performance measures during the project period, which may include the following:


(A) High-wage jobs created;


(B) High-wage jobs retained;


(C) Private investment leveraged;


(D) Businesses improved;


(E) Businesses retained;


(F) New business formations;


(G) New products, prototypes and/or services commercialized;


(H) Improvement of the value of existing products or services under development;


(I) Regional collaboration as measured by the number of organizations actively engaged in the industry cluster and/or the number of symposia held by the industry cluster, including organizations that are not located in the immediate region defined by the partnership and/or the number of further cooperative agreements;


(J) Number of educations and training activities relating to the innovation;


(K) Number of innovative products, services and/or prototypes launched;


(L) Number of jobs relocated from outside of the United States to the region;


(M) Amount and number of new equity investments in industry cluster firms;


(N) Amount and number of new loans to industry cluster firms;


(O) Dollar increase in exports resulting from the project activities;


(P) Percentage of employees for which training was provided;


(Q) Improvement in sales of participating businesses;


(R) Improvement in wages paid at participating businesses;


(S) Improvement in income of participating workers;


(T) Any measure determined appropriate by the Agency; and


(U) Broadband development in the targeted region.


(iv) Initiatives and timetable established for the next reporting period; and


(v) Any additional information as found in the annual _Federal Register_ notice.






