# § 630.1205   Intermittent leave or reduced leave schedule.

(a) Leave under § 630.1203(a) (1) or (2) of this part shall not be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule unless the employee and the agency agree to do so.


(b) Leave under § 630.1203(a)(3) or (4) may be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule when medically necessary, subject to §§ 630.1207 and 630.1208 (b)(6). Leave under § 630.1203(a)(5) may be taken on an intermittent or reduced leave schedule basis, subject to §§ 630.1207 and 630.1209.


(c) If an employee takes leave under § 630.1203(a) (3) or (4) of this part intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule that is foreseeable based on planned medical treatment or recovery from a serious health condition, the agency may place the employee temporarily in an available alternative position for which the employee is qualified and that can better accommodate recurring periods of leave. Upon returning from leave, the employee is entitled to be returned to his or her permanent position or an equivalent position, as provided in § 630.1210(a) of this part.


(d) For the purpose of applying paragraph (c) of this section, an alternative position need not consist of equivalent duties, but must be in the same commuting area and must provide—


(1) An equivalent grade or pay level, including any applicable locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority; 


(2) The same type of appointment, work schedule, status, and tenure; and


(3) The same employment benefits made available to the employee in his or her previous position (e.g., life insurance, health benefits, retirement coverage, and leave accrual).


(e) The agency shall determine the available alternative position that has equivalent pay and benefits consistent with Federal laws, including the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701) and the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 2000e).


(f) Only the amount of leave taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule, as these terms are defined in § 630.1202, shall be subtracted from the total amount of leave available to the employee under § 630.1203 (e) and (f).



---

[N] [58 FR 39602, July 23, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 3544, Feb. 1, 1996; 61 FR 64453, Dec. 5, 1996; 70 FR 31314, May 31, 2005. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 60704, 60705, Sept. 30, 2011]




