# ยง 1751.100   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Bit rate.* The rate of transmission of telecommunications signals or intelligence in binary (two state) form in bits per unit time, e.g., Mb/s (megabits per second), kb/s (kilobits per second), etc.


*Borrower.* Any organization that has received a RUS loan designation number and which has an outstanding telephone loan made by RUS or guaranteed by RUS, or which has a completed loan application with RUS.


*Emerging technologies.* New or not fully developed methods of telecommunications.


*Modernization Plan (State Telecommunications Modernization Plan).* A State plan, which has been approved by RUS, for improving the telecommunications network of those Telecommunications Providers covered by the plan. A Modernization Plan must conform to the provisions of this subpart.


*New facilities.* Facilities which are wholly or partially constructed or reconstructed after a short- or medium-term requirements start date, as appropriate. This does not include connections or capacity extensions within the wired capacity of existing plant such as adding line cards to existing equipment.


*Plan Developer.* The entity creating the Modernization Plan for the State, which may be the State PUC, the State legislature, or a numeric majority of the RUS Borrowers within the State. When this part refers to the PUC as the Plan Developer, this includes the State legislature.


*PUC (Public Utilities Commission).* The public utilities commission, public service commission or other State body with such jurisdiction over rates, service areas or other aspects of the services and operation of providers of telecommunications services as vested in the commission or other body authority, to the extent provided by the State, to guide development of telecommunications services in the State. When this part refers to the PUC as the Plan Developer, this includes the State legislature.


*RE Act.* The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


*REA.* The Rural Electrification Administration, formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.


*RELRA.* The Rural Electrification Loan Restructuring Act of 1993 (107 Stat. 1356).


*RUS.* The Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941 *et seq.*)), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.


*RUS hardship loan.* A loan made by RUS under section 305(d)(1) of the RE Act bearing interest at a rate of 5 percent per year.


*State.* Each of the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and insular possessions of the United States. This does not include countries in the Compact of Free Association.


*Telecommunications.* The transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writings, or signs of all kinds, by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means.


*Telecommunications providers.* RUS Borrowers and if the Plan Developer is a PUC, such other entities providing telecommunications services as the developer of the Modernization Plan (See ยง 1751.101) may determine.


*Wireline Service.* Telecommunica-tions service provided over telephone lines. It is characterized by a wire or wirelike connection carrying electricity or light between the subscriber and the rest of the telecommunications network. Wireline Service implies a physical connection. Although radio may form part of the circuit, it is not the major method of transmission as in radiotelephone.



---

[N] [60 FR 8174, Feb. 13, 1995, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]






