# ยง 4041A.2   Definitions.

The following terms are defined in ยง 4001.2 of this chapter: annuity, ERISA, insurer, IRS, mass withdrawal, multiemployer plan, nonforfeitable benefit, PBGC, plan, and plan year. In addition, for purposes of this part:


*Actuarial valuation* means a report submitted to a plan of a valuation of plan assets and liabilities that is performed in accordance with subpart B of part 4281 of this chapter.


*Available resources* means available resources as described in section 4245(b)(3) of ERISA. 


*Benefits subject to reduction* means those benefits accrued under plan amendments (or plans) adopted after March 26, 1980, or under collective bargaining agreements entered into after March 26, 1980, that are not eligible for PBGC's guarantee under section 4022A(b) of ERISA. 


*Financial assistance* means financial assistance from PBGC under section 4261 of ERISA. 


*Insolvency benefit level* means the greater of the resource benefit level or the benefit level guaranteed by PBGC for each participant and beneficiary in pay status. 


*Insolvency year* means insolvency year as described in section 4245(b)(4) of ERISA. 


*Insolvent* means unable to pay benefits when due during the plan year. 

*Nonguaranteed benefits* means those benefits that are eligible for PBGC's guarantee under section 4022A(b) of ERISA, but exceed the guarantee limits under section 4022A(c). 


*Resource benefit level* means resource benefit level as described in section 4245(b)(2) of ERISA. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34052, July 1, 1996; 61 FR 36626, July 12, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 18722, May 2, 2019]




