# § 1.74   Human drugs.

In addition to the data required to be submitted in § 1.72, an ACE filer must submit the following information at the time of filing entry in ACE for drugs, including biological products and eligible prescription drugs as defined in § 251.2 of this chapter that are imported or offered for import under section 804 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, intended for human use that are regulated by the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.


(a) For a drug intended for human use that is not an eligible prescription drug covered under paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) *Registration and listing.* The Drug Registration Number and the Drug Listing Number of the foreign establishment where the human drug was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed before being imported or offered for import into the United States is required to register and list the drug under part 207 of this chapter. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Registration Number that must be submitted at the time of entry filing in ACE is the unique facility identifier of the foreign establishment where the human drug was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed before being imported or offered for import into the United States.  The unique facility identifier is the identifier submitted by a registrant in accordance with the system specified under section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Listing Number is the National Drug Code number of the human drug article being imported or offered for import.


(2) *Drug application number.* For a drug intended for human use that is the subject of an approved application under section 505(b) or 505(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the number of the new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. For a biological product regulated by the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research that is required to have an approved biologics license application, the number of the applicable application.


(3) *Investigational new drug application number.* For a drug intended for human use that is the subject of an investigational new drug application under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the number of the investigational new drug application.


(b) For an eligible prescription drug as defined in § 251.2 of this chapter that is imported or offered for import under section 804 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:


(1) *Registration and listing.* The Drug Registration Number and the Drug Listing Number. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Registration Number that must be submitted in ACE is the unique facility identifier submitted by the Foreign Seller registrant under § 251.9 of this chapter in accordance with the system specified under section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Listing Number is the National Drug Code number that the Importer will use when relabeling the eligible prescription drug as required in § 251.13 of this chapter.


(2) *Drug application number.* The number of the new drug application or abbreviated new drug application for the counterpart FDA-approved drug.


(3) *Lot or control number.* The lot or control number assigned by the manufacturer of the eligible prescription drug.


(4) *FDA Quantity.* FDA Quantity, which is the quantity of each eligible prescription drug in an import line delineated by packaging level, including the type of package from the largest packaging unit to the smallest packaging unit; the quantity of each packaging unit; and the volume and/or weight of each of the smallest of the packaging units.


(5) *Pre-Import Request number.* The Pre-Import Request number assigned by FDA.



---

[N] [85 FR 62125, Oct. 1, 2020, as mended at 86 FR 17060, Apr. 1, 2021]






