# ยง 750.12   Claims: Action when suit filed.

(a) *Action required of any Navy official receiving notice of suit.* The commencement, under the civil action provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 1346(b)), of any action against the United States and involving the Navy, that comes to the attention of any official in connection with his official duties, shall be reported immediately to the Tort Claims Unit Norfolk to take any necessary action and provide prompt notification to the Judge Advocate General. The commencement of a civil action against an employee of the Navy for actions arising from the performance of official duties shall be reported in the same manner.


(b) *Steps upon commencement of civil action.* Upon receipt by the Judge Advocate General or Tort Claims Unit Norfolk of notice from the DoJ or other source that a civil action involving the Navy has been initiated under the civil action provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act, and there being no investigative report available at the headquarters, a request shall be made to the commanding officer of the appropriate Naval Legal Service Command activity for an investigative report into the incident. If there is not a completed investigation, the request shall be forwarded to the appropriate naval activity to convene and complete such a report. The commanding officer of the Naval Legal Service Command activity shall contact the Tort Claims Unit Norfolk to determine whether an administrative claim had been filed and, if available information indicates none had, the Tort Claims Unit Norfolk shall advise the Office of the Judge Advocate General (Claims and Tort Litigation Division) immediately.



---

[N] [57 FR 4722, Feb. 7, 1992, as amended at 72 FR 53419, Sept. 19, 2007]




