# § 672.110   What definitions apply to this part?

*Alternative school.* The term “alternative school” means a school or program that is set up by a State, school district, or other community-based entity to serve young people who are not succeeding in a traditional public school environment. In order for an “alternative school” to qualify as of part of a “sequential service strategy” it must be recognized by the authorizing entity designated by the State, award a high school diploma or both a high school diploma and a GED and, must be affiliated with a YouthBuild program.


*Community or other public facility.* The term “community or other public facility” means those facilities which are either privately owned by non-profit organizations, including faith-based and community-based organizations, and publicly used for the benefit of the community, or publicly owned and publicly used for the benefit of the community.


*Core construction.* The term “core construction” means activities that are directly related to the construction or rehabilitation of residential, community, or other public facilities. These activities include, but are not limited to, job skills that can be found under the Standard Occupational Classification System (SOC) major group 47, Construction and Extraction Occupations, in codes 47-1011 through 47-4099. These activities may also include, but are not limited to, construction skills that may be required by green building and weatherization industries but are not yet standardized. A full list of the SOC's can be found at the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Web site, *http://www.bls.gov/soc.*

*Eligible entity.* The term “eligible entity” means a public or private nonprofit agency or organization (including a consortium of such agencies or organizations), including—


(1) A community-based organization;


(2) A faith-based organization;


(3) An entity carrying out activities under this Title, such as a local school board;


(4) A community action agency;


(5) A State or local housing development agency;


(6) An Indian tribe or other agency primarily serving Indians;


(7) A community development corporation;


(8) A State or local youth service or conservation corps; and


(9) Any other entity eligible to provide education or employment training under a Federal program (other than the program carried out under this part).


*Homeless individual.* For purposes of YouthBuild, the definition of “homeless individual” at Section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302) applies.


*Housing development agency.* The term “housing development agency” means any agency of a Federal, State or local government, or any private nonprofit organization, that is engaged in providing housing for homeless individuals or low-income families.


*Income.* As defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b), “income” is: Income from all sources of each member of the household, as determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, except that any amounts not actually received by the family and any amounts which would be eligible for exclusion under sec. 1382b(a)(7) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, may not be considered as income under this paragraph.


*Indian; Indian tribe.* As defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b of sec. 4 of the Indian Self- Determination and Education Assistance Act, the term “Indian” is a person who is a member of an Indian tribe; and the term “Indian tribe” is any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Individual of limited English proficiency.* As defined in 20 U.S.C. 9202(10), an “individual of limited English proficiency” is: An adult or out- of-school youth who has limited ability in speaking, reading, writing, or understanding the English language, and:


(1) Whose native language is a language other than English; or


(2) Who lives in a family or community environment where a language other than English is the dominant language.


*Low-income family.* As defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2), a “low-income family” is: A family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary of Labor with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that the Secretary of Labor may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area if the Secretary finds that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. Further, as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2)(3), the term families includes families consisting of one person.


*Migrant youth.* The term “migrant youth” means a youth, or a youth who is the dependent of someone who, during the previous 12 months has:


(1) Worked at least 25 days in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment;


(2) Made at least $800 from agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment, if at least 50 percent of his or her income came from such agricultural labor;


(3) Was employed at least 50 percent of his or her total employment in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment; or


(4) Was employed in agricultural labor that requires travel to a jobsite such that the farmworker is unable to return to a permanent place of residence within the same day.


*Needs-based stipend.* The term “Needs-based stipends” means additional payments (beyond regular stipends for program participation) that are based on defined needs that enable youth to participate in the program. To provide needs-based stipends the grantee must have a written policy in place, which defines: Eligibility; the amounts; and the required documentation and criteria for payments. This policy must be applied consistently to all program participants.


*Occupational skills training.* The term “Occupational skills training” means an organized program of study that provides specific vocational skills that lead to proficiency in performing the actual tasks and technical functions required by certain occupational fields at entry, intermediate, or advanced levels. The occupational skills training offered in YouthBuild programs must begin upon program enrollment and be tied to the award of an industry-recognized credential.


*Partnership.* The term “partnership” means an agreement that involves a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or letter of commitment submitted by each organization and applicant, as defined in the YouthBuild Transfer Act, that plan on working together as partners in a YouthBuild program. Each partner must have a clearly defined role. These roles must be verified through a letter of commitment, not just a letter of support, or an MOU submitted by each partner. The letter of commitment or MOU must detail the role the partner will play in the YouthBuild Program, including the partner's specific responsibilities and resources committed, if appropriate. These letters or MOUs must clearly indicate the partnering organization's unique contribution and commitment to the YouthBuild Program.


*Public housing agency.* As defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b), a “public housing agency” is: Any State, county, municipality or other government entity or public body, or agency or instrumentality of these entities, that is authorized to engage or assist in the development or operation of low- income housing.


*Registered apprenticeship program.* The term “registered apprenticeship program” means:


(1) Registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 20 U.S.C. 50 *et seq.*); and


(2) A program with a plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification, recruitment, selection, employment and training of apprentices, as required under 29 CFR parts 29 and 30, including such matters as the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.


*Sequential service strategy.* The term “sequential service strategy” means the educational and occupational skills training plan developed for individuals who have dropped out of high school and want to enroll in a YouthBuild program. The plan is designed so that the individual sequentially enrolls in an alternative school, and after receiving a year or more of educational services, enrolls in the YouthBuild program.


*Transitional housing.* The term “transitional housing” means housing provided for the purpose of facilitating the movement of homeless individuals to independent living within a reasonable amount of time. The term includes housing primarily designed to serve deinstitutionalized homeless individuals and other homeless individuals who are individuals with disabilities or are members of families with children.


*Youth in foster care.* The term “youth in foster care” means youth currently in foster care or youth who have ever been in foster care.


*Youth who is an individual with a disability.* The term youth who is an individual with a disability means a youth with any disability (as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102)) or a student receiving special education and related services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).




