# § 7.306   Explosion tests.

(a) The following shall be used for conducting an explosion test:


(1) An explosion test chamber designed and constructed to contain an explosive gas mixture to surround and fill the motor assembly being tested. The chamber must be sufficiently darkened and provide viewing capabilities of the flame-arresting paths to allow observation during testing of any discharge of flame or ignition of the explosive mixture surrounding the motor assembly.


(2) A methane gas supply with at least 98 by volume per centum of combustible hydrocarbons, with the remainder being inert. At least 80 percent by volume of the gas shall be methane.


(3) Coal dust having a minimum of 22 percent dry volatile matter and a minimum heat constant of 11,000 moist BTU (coal containing natural bed moisture but not visible surface water) ground to a fineness of minus 200 mesh U.S. Standard sieve series.


(4) An electric spark ignition source with a minimum of 100 millijoules of energy.


(5) A pressure recording system that will indicate the pressure peaks resulting from the ignition and combustion of explosive gas mixtures within the enclosure being tested.


(b) *General test procedures.* (1) Motor assemblies being tested shall—


(i) Be equipped with unshielded bearings regardless of the type of bearings specified; and


(ii) Have all parts that do not contribute to the operation or assure the explosion-proof integrity of the enclosure, such as oil seals, grease fittings, hose conduit, cable clamps, and outer bearing caps (which do not house the bearings) removed from the motor assembly.


(2) Each motor assembly shall be placed in the explosion test chamber and tested as follows:


(i) The motor assembly shall be filled with and surrounded by an explosive mixture of the natural gas supply and air. The chamber gas concentrations shall be between 6.0 by volume per centum and the motor assembly natural gas concentration just before ignition of each test. Each externally visible flame-arresting path fit shall be observed for discharge of flames for at least two of the tests, including one with coal dust added.


(ii) A single spark source is used for all testing. Pressure shall be measured at each end of the winding compartment simultaneously during all tests. Quantity and location of test holes shall permit ignition on each end of the winding compartment and recording of pressure on the same and opposite ends as the ignition.


(iii) Motor assemblies incorporating a conduit box shall have the pressure in the conduit box recorded simultaneously with the other measured pressures during all tests. Quantity and location of test holes in the conduit box shall permit ignition and recording of pressure as required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(4)(i) of this section.


(iv) The motor assembly shall be completely purged and recharged with a fresh explosive gas mixture from the chamber or by injection after each test. The chamber shall be completely purged and recharged with a fresh explosive gas mixture as necessary. The oxygen level of the chamber gas mixture shall be no less than 18 percent by volume for testing. In the absence of oxygen monitoring equipment, the maximum number of tests conducted before purging shall be less than or equal to the chamber volume divided by forty times the volume occupied by the motor assembly.


(c) *Test procedures.* (1) Eight tests at 9.4 ±0.4 percent methane by volume within the winding compartment shall be conducted, with the rotor stationary during four tests and rotating at rated speed (rpm) during four tests. The ignition shall be at one end of the winding compartment for two stationary and two rotating tests, and then switched to the opposite end for the remaining four tests. If a nonisolated conduit box is used, then two additional tests, one stationary and one rotating, shall be conducted with ignition in the conduit box at a point furthest away from the opening between the conduit box and the winding compartment.


(2) Four tests at 7.0 ±0.3 percent methane by volume within the winding compartment shall be conducted with the rotor stationary, 2 ignitions at each end.


(3) Four tests at 9.4 ±0.4 percent methane by volume plus coal dust shall be conducted. A quantity of coal dust equal to 0.05 ounces per cubic foot of internal free volume of the winding compartment plus the nonisolated conduit box shall be introduced into each end of the winding compartment and nonisolated conduit box to coat the interior surface before conducting the first of the four tests. The coal dust introduced into the conduit box shall be proportional to its volume. The remaining coal dust shall be equally divided between the winding compartment ends. For two tests, one stationary and one rotating, the ignition shall be either in the conduit box or one end of the connected winding compartment, whichever produced the highest pressure in the previous tests. The two remaining tests, one stationary and one rotating, shall be conducted with the ignition in the winding compartment end furthest away from the conduit box.


(4) For motor assemblies incorporating a conduit box which is isolated from the winding compartment by an isolating barrier the following additional tests shall be conducted—


(i) For conduit boxes with an internal free volume greater than 150 cubic inches, two ignition points shall be used, one as close to the geometric center of the conduit box as practical and the other at the furthest point away from the isolating barrier between the conduit box and the winding compartment. Recording of pressure shall be on the same and opposite sides as the ignition point furthest from the isolating barrier between the conduit box and the winding compartment. Conduit boxes with an internal free volume of 150 cubic inches or less shall have one test hole for ignition located as close to the geometric center of the conduit box as practical and one for recording of pressure located on a side of the conduit box.


(ii) The conduit box shall be tested separately. Six tests at 9.4 ±0.4 percent methane by volume within the conduit box shall be conducted followed by two tests at 7.0 ±0.3 percent methane by volume. Then two tests at 9.4 ±0.4 percent methane by volume with a quantity of coal dust equal to 0.05 ounces per cubic foot of internal free volume of the conduit box and meeting the specifications in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall be conducted. For conduit boxes with an internal free volume of more than 150 cubic inches, the number of tests shall be evenly divided between each ignition point.


(iii) The motor assembly shall be tested following removal of the isolating barrier or one sectionalizing terminal (as applicable). Six tests at 9.4 ±0.4 percent methane by volume in the winding compartment and conduit box shall be conducted using three ignition locations. The ignition shall be at one end of the winding compartment for one stationary and one rotating test; the opposite end for one stationary and one rotating test; and at the ignition point that produced the highest pressure on the previous test in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section in the conduit box for one stationary and one rotating test. Motor assemblies that use multiple sectionalizing terminals shall have one test conducted as each additional terminal is removed. Each of these tests shall use the rotor state and ignition location that produced the highest pressure in the previous tests.


(d) A motor assembly incorporating a conduit box that is isolated from the winding compartment that exhibits pressures exceeding 110 psig, while testing during removal of any or all isolating barriers as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, shall have a warning statement on the approval plate. This statement shall warn that the isolating barrier must be maintained to ensure the explosion-proof integrity of the motor assembly. A statement is not required when the motor assembly has withstood a static pressure of twice the maximum pressure recorded in the explosion tests of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The static pressure test shall be conducted on the motor assembly with all isolating barriers removed, and in accordance with § 7.307 of this part.


(e) *Acceptable performance.* Explosion tests of a motor assembly shall not result in—


(1) Discharge of flames.


(2) Ignition of the explosive mixture surrounding the motor assembly in the chamber.


(3) Development of afterburning.


(4) Rupture of any part of the motor assembly or any panel or divider within the motor assembly.


(5) Clearances, in excess of those specified in this subpart, along accessible flame-arresting paths, following any necessary retightening of fastenings.


(6) Pressure exceeding 110 psig, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section unless the motor assembly has withstood a static pressure of twice the maximum pressure recorded in the explosion tests of this section following the static pressure test procedures of § 7.307 of this part.


(7) Permanent deformation greater than 0.040 inches per linear foot.




