# § 37.85   Are there any other circumstances in which the Director will send a complaint to another authority?

Yes. The Director refers complaints to other agencies in the following circumstances:


(a) Where the complaint alleges discrimination based on age, and the complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, then the Director must refer the complaint, in accordance with the provisions of 45 CFR 90.43(c)(3).


(b) Where the only allegation in the complaint is a charge of individual employment discrimination that is covered both by WIA or this part and by one or more of the laws listed below, then the complaint is a “joint complaint,” and the Director may refer it to the EEOC for investigation and conciliation under the procedures described in 29 CFR part 1640 or 1691, as appropriate. The relevant laws are:


(1) Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e to 2000e-17);


(2) The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d));


(3) The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1976, as amended (29 U.S.C. 621, *et seq.*); and


(4) Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*).


(c) Where the complaint alleges discrimination by an entity that operates a program or activity financially assisted by a Federal grantmaking agency other than the Department, but that participates as a partner in a One-Stop delivery system, the following procedures apply:


(1) Where the complaint alleges discrimination on a basis that is prohibited both by Section 188 of WIA and by a civil rights law enforced by the Federal grantmaking agency, then CRC and the grantmaking agency have dual jurisdiction over the complaint, and the Director will refer the complaint to the grantmaking agency for processing. In such circumstances, the grantmaking agency's regulations will govern the processing of the complaint.


(2) Where the complaint alleges discrimination on a basis that is prohibited by Section 188 of WIA, but not by any civil rights laws enforced by the Federal grantmaking agency, then CRC has sole jurisdiction over the complaint, and will retain the complaint and process it pursuant to this part. Such bases generally include religion, political affiliation or belief, citizenship, and/or participation in a WIA Title I-financially assisted program or activity.


(d) Where the Director makes a referral under this section, he or she must notify the complainant and the respondent about the referral.




