# § 202.7   Documentation required for reimbursement.

Claims for reimbursement of freight charges must be supported by the following documents:


(a) *Voucher SF 1034.* “Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal”—Voucher SF 1034 in original and three copies to be prepared by the agency requesting reimbursement of freight charges.


(b) *Bills of lading*—(1) *To ports of entry.* Where the shipment is made to a port of entry, ocean or charter party bill of lading (or photostat) evidencing shipment from an eligible port of export as prescribed in § 202.2(a) to the port of entry. The bill of lading shall indicate the carrier's complete statement of charges including all relevant weights, cubic measurements, rates, and any applicable tariff surcharges.


(2) *To points of entry.* (i) Where the shipment is made to a point of entry and through bills of lading to designated point of entry are not issued, an ocean or charter party bill of lading (or photostat) evidencing shipment from an eligible port of export as precribed in § 202.2(a) to the port of discharge, and a receipted copy of the rail, truck, or barge bills of lading (or other acceptable commercial document) covering the transportation of the supplies from the ocean carrier's point of delivery at port of discharge to point of entry in recipient country, correctly assessed at time of loading by the land carrier for freight on a weight, measurement, or unit basis to point of entry in recipient country and from point of entry to point of delivery in the recipient country. The bill of lading shall indicate the carrier's complete statement of charges including all relevant weights, cubic measurements, rates and any applicable tariff surcharges.


(ii) Where shipment is made to point of entry and through bills of lading are issued, a receipted copy of the through bill of lading evidencing shipment from an eligible port of export as prescribed in § 202.2(a) to point of entry in the recipient country. The bill of lading shall include the carrier's complete statement of charges including all relevant weights, cubic measurements, rates, and any applicable tariff surcharges.


(c) *Receipted invoices.* One copy (or photostat) of the detailed invoice of the supplier of the transportation evidencing payment by the agency to the carrier. If the bills of lading required by paragraph (b) of this section meet the requirements of this subparagraph, no invoice is required.


(d) *Voluntary Agency and Carrier Certificate, Form AID 1550-1.* (i) As provided in § 202.4(a), the original and two copies of the Voluntary Agency and Carrier Certificate executed by the supplier of ocean transportation, and


(ii) As provided in § 202.4(b), the original and two copies of the Voluntary Agency and Carrier Certificate executed by the Agency.




