# § 306.2   Definitions of words and terms as used in these regulations.

(a) *Advance refunding offer* is an offer to a holder of a security, usually a year or more in advance of its call or maturity date, to exchange it for another security.


(b) A *bearer* security is payable on its face at maturity or call for redemption before maturity in accordance with its terms to *bearer.* The ownership is not recorded. Title to such a security may pass by delivery without endorsement and without notice. A *coupon* security is a bearer security with interest coupons attached.


(c) Bureau refers to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Customer Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102.


(d) *Call date* or *date of call* is the date fixed in the official notice of call published in the _Federal Register_ as the date on which the obligor will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms.


(e) *Court* means one which has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter.


(f) *Department* refers to the Department of the Treasury.


(g) *Depository institution* means an entity described in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi)). Under section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, the term *depository institution* includes:


(1) Any insured bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;


(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;


(3) Any savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;


(4) Any insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752 or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under 12 U.S.C. 1781;


(5) Any member as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1422; and


(6) Any savings association (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution, as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.,* or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under such Act.


(h) *Face maturity date* is the payment date specified in the text of a security.


(i) *Incompetent* refers to a person under any legal disability except minority.


(j) *Joint owner* and *joint ownership* refer to any permitted form of ownership by two or more persons.


(k) *Nontransferable securities* are those issued only in registered form which according to their terms are payable only to the registered owners or recognized successors in title to the extent and in the manner provided in the offering circulars or special applicable regulations.


(l) *Payment* and *redemption,* unless otherwise indicated by the context, are used interchangeably for payment at maturity or payment before maturity pursuant to a call for redemption in accordance with the terms of the securities.


(m) *Prerefunding offer* is an offer to a holder of a security, usually within the year preceding its call or maturity date, to exchange it for another security.


(n) *Redemption-exchange* is any authorized redemption of securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange.


(o) A *registered* security refers to a security the ownership of which is registered on the books of the Department. It is payable at maturity or call for redemption before maturity in accordance with its terms to the person in whose name it is inscribed, or his assignee.


(p) *Securities assigned in blank* or *securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer* refers to registered securities which are assigned by the owner or his authorized representative without designating the assignee. Registered securities assigned simply to *The Secretary of the Treasury* or in the case of Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B—1975-80, to *The Secretary of the Treasury for exchange for the current Series EA or EO Treasury notes* are considered to be so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer.


(q) *Signature guarantee program* means a signature guarantee program established in response to Rule 17 Ad-15 (17 CFR 240.17Ad-15), issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of the regulations, in this part, the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP) are recognized by Treasury as such signature guarantee programs.


(r) *Taxpayer identifying number* means the appropriate identifying number as required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, i.e., an individual's social security account number or an employer identification number. A social security account number is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789; an employer identification number is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers and must be included.


(s) *Transferable securities,* which may be in either registered or bearer form, refers to securities which may be sold on the market and transfer of title accomplished by assignment and delivery if in registered form, or by delivery only if in bearer form.


(t) *Treasury securities, Treasury bonds, Treasury notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness,* and *Treasury bills,* or simply *securities, bonds, notes, certificates,* and *bills,* unless otherwise indicated by the context, refer only to transferable securities.


(u) *Voluntary representative* means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or make an assignment of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 306.65.



---

[N] [38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 59 FR 59036, Nov. 15, 1994; 64 FR 38125, July 15, 1999; 70 FR 57429, Sept. 30, 2005]




