# ยง 242.17   Commitments.

(a) *Issuance of commitment.* Upon approval of an application for insurance, a commitment shall be issued by HUD setting forth the terms and conditions under which an insurance endorsement shall be issued for the hospital. The commitment shall include the following:


(1) A commitment for insurance of advances reflecting the mortgage amount, interest rate, mortgage term, date of commencement of amortization, and other requirements pertaining to the mortgage and construction project;


(2) In the case of an application for Section 242/223(f) insurance where advances are not needed for funding any limited rehabilitation: a commitment for insurance upon completion, reflecting the mortgage amount, interest rate, mortgage term, date of commencement of amortization, and other requirements pertaining to the mortgage and to any limited rehabilitation; 


(3) HUD's computation of the replacement cost and maximum insurable mortgage amount;


(4) Financial requirements for closing;


(5) Approval covenants, including any special conditions that must be satisfied prior to initial endorsement;


(6) Mortgage Reserve Fund Agreement.


(b) *Type of commitment.* The commitment will provide for the insurance of advances of mortgage funds during construction. In the case of a commitment for Section 242/223(f) insured refinancing or acquisition financing of an existing hospital, the commitment shall provide for insurance upon completion unless insured advances are needed for funding any limited rehabilitation approved by HUD, in which case the commitment shall provide for insurance of advances.


(c) *Term of commitment.* (1) The initial commitment shall be issued for a period of 90 days.


(2) The term of a commitment may be extended in such manner as HUD may prescribe, provided, however, that the combined term of the original commitment and any extensions do not exceed 180 days.


(d) *Commitment fee.* A commitment fee that, when added to the application fee, will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the loan set forth in the commitment, shall be paid within 30 days of the date of issuance of the commitment. If such fee is not paid within this 30-day period, the commitment shall automatically terminate.



---

[N] [72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8342, Feb. 5, 2013]




