# § 72.65   Public notice of opportunities for public comment.

(a)(1) The Administrator will give public notice of the following:


(i) The draft permit or denial of a draft permit and the opportunity for public review and comment and to request a public hearing; and


(ii) Date, time, location, and procedures for any scheduled hearing on the draft permit or denial of a draft permit.


(2) Any public notice given under this section may be for the issuance or denial of one or more draft permits.


(b) *Methods.* The Administrator will give the public notice required by this section by:


(1) Serving written notice on the following persons (except where such person has waived his or her right to receive such notice):


(i) The designated representative;


(ii) The air pollution control agencies of affected States; and


(iii) Any interested person.


(2) Giving notice by publication in the _Federal Register_ and in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the source covered by the Acid Rain permit application is located or in a State publication designed to give general public notice. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, if a draft permit requires the affected units at a source to comply with § 72.9(c)(1) and to meet any applicable emission limitation for NO_X_ under §§ 76.5, 76.6, 76.7, 76.8, or 76.11 of this chapter and does not include for any unit a compliance option under § 72.44, part 74 of this chapter, or § 76.10 of this chapter, the Administrator may, in his or her discretion, provide notice of the draft permit by _Federal Register_ publication and may omit notice by newspaper or State publication.


(c) *Contents.* All public notices issued under this section will contain the following information:


(1) Identification of the EPA office processing the issuance or denial of the draft permit for which the notice is being given.


(2) Identification of the designated representative for the affected source.


(3) Identification of each unit covered by the Acid Rain permit application and the draft permit.


(4) Any compliance options proposed for approval in the draft permit or for disapproval and the total allowances (including any under the compliance options) allocated to each unit if the Acid Rain permit application is approved.


(5) The address and office hours of a public location where the administrative record is available for public inspection and a statement that all information submitted by the designated representative and not protected as confidential under section 114(c) of the Act is available for public inspection as part of the administrative record.


(6) For public notice under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, a brief description of the public comment procedures, including:


(i) A 30-day period for public comment beginning the date of publication of the notice or, in the case of an extension or reopening of the public comment period, such period as the Administrator deems appropriate;


(ii) The address where public comments should be sent;


(iii) Required formats and contents for public comment;


(iv) An opportunity to request a public hearing to occur not earlier than 15 days after public notice is given and the location, date, time, and procedures of any scheduled public hearing; and


(v) Any other means by which the public may participate.


(d) *Extensions and Reopenings of the Public Comment Period.* On the Administrator's own motion or on the request of any person, the Administrator may, at his or her discretion, extend or reopen the public comment period where he or she finds that doing so will contribute to the decision-making process by clarifying one or more significant issues affecting the draft permit or denial of a draft permit. Notice of any such extension or reopening shall be given under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 55482, Oct. 24, 1997]




