# § 681.8   What are the borrower's major rights and responsibilities?

(a) *The borrower's rights.* (1) Once the terms of the HEAL loan have been established, the lender or holder may not change them without the borrower's consent.


(2) The lender must provide the borrower with a copy of the completed promissory note when the loan is made. The lender or holder must return the original note to the borrower when the loan is paid in full.


(3) A lender must disburse HEAL loan proceeds as described in § 681.33(f).


(4) The lender or holder must provide the borrower with a copy of the repayment schedule before repayment begins.


(5) If the loan is sold from one lender or holder to another lender or holder, or if the loan is serviced by a party other than the lender or holder, the buyer must notify the borrower within 30 days of the transaction.


(6) The borrower does not have to begin repayment until 9 full months after leaving school or an accredited internship or residency program as described in § 681.11.


(7) The borrower is entitled to deferment from repayment of the principal and interest installments during periods described in § 681.12.


(8) The borrower may prepay the whole or any portion of the loan at any time without penalty.


(9) The lender or holder must allow the borrower to repay a HEAL loan according to a graduated repayment schedule.


(10) The borrower's total loan obligation is cancelled in the event of death or total and permanent disability.


(11) To assist the borrower in avoiding default, the lender or holder may grant the borrower forbearance. Forbearance, including circumstances in which the lender or holder must grant forbearance, is more fully described in § 681.37.


(12) Any borrower who received a fixed interest rate HEAL loan in excess of 12 percent per year could have entered into an agreement with the lender which made this loan for the reissuance of the loan in accordance with section 739A of the Public Health Service Act (the Act).


(b) *The borrower's responsibilities.* (1) The borrower must pay any insurance premium that the lender may require as more fully described in § 681.14.


(2) The borrower must pay all interest charges on the loan as required by the lender or holder.


(3) The borrower must immediately notify the lender or holder in writing in the event of:


(i) Change of address;


(ii) Change of name; or


(iii) Change of status that authorizes deferment.


(4) The borrower must repay the loan in accordance with the repayment schedule.


(5) A borrower may not have a HEAL loan discharged in bankruptcy during the first 5 years of the repayment period. This prohibition against the discharge of a HEAL loan applies to bankruptcy under *any* chapter of the Bankruptcy Act, including Chapter 13. A borrower may have a HEAL loan discharged in bankruptcy after the first 5 years of the repayment period only upon a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that the non-discharge of such debt would be unconscionable and upon the condition that the Secretary shall not have waived his or her rights to reduce any Federal reimbursements or Federal payments for health services under any Federal law in amounts up to the balance of the loan.


(6) If the borrower fails to make payments on the loan on time, the total amount to be repaid by the borrower may be increased by additional interest, late charges, attorney's fees, court costs, and other collection charges. In addition, the Secretary may offset amounts attributable to an unpaid loan from reimbursements or payment for health services provided under any Federal law to a defaulted borrower practicing his or her profession.


