# § 240.14c-1   Definitions.

Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this regulation have the same meanings as in the Act or elsewhere in the general rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, the following definitions apply unless the context otherwise requires:


(a) *Associate.* The term “associate,” used to indicate a relationship with any person, means:


(1) Any corporation or organization (other than the registrant or a majority owned subsidiary of the registrant) of which such person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities;


(2) Any trust or other estate in which such person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such person serves as trustee or in a similar fidiciary capacity; and


(3) Any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of the registrant or any of its parents or subsidiaries. 


(b) *Employee benefit plan.* For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “employee benefit plan” means any purchase, savings, option, bonus, appreciation, profit sharing, thrift, incentive, pension or similar plan primarily for employees, directors, trustees or officers. 


(c) *Entity that exercises fiduciary powers.* The term “entity that exercises fiduciary powers” means any entity that holds securities in nominee name or otherwise on behalf of a beneficial owner but does not include a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act, or a broker or a dealer. 


(d) *Exempt employee benefit plan securities.* For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “exempt employee benefit plan securities” means: 


(1) Securities of the registrant held by an employee benefit plan, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, where such plan is established by the registrant; or


(2) If notice regarding the current distribution of information statements has been given pursuant to § 240.14c-7(a)(1)(ii)(C) or if notice regarding the current request for a list of names, addresses and securities positions of beneficial owners has been given pursuant to § 240.14c-7(b)(3), securities of the registrant held by an employee benefit plan, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, where such plan is established by an affiliate of the registrant.


(e) *Information statement.* The term “information statement” means the statement required by § 240.14c-2, whether or not contained in a single document. 


(f) *Last fiscal year.* The term “last fiscal year” of the registrant means the last fiscal year of the registrant ending prior to the date of the meeting with respect to which an information statement is required to be distributed, or if the information statement involves consents or authorizations in lieu of a meeting, the earliest date on which they may be used to effect corporate action. 


(g) *Proxy.* The term “proxy” includes every proxy, consent or authorization within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Act. The consent or authorization may take the form of failure to object or to dissent. 


(h) *Record date.* The term “record date” means the date as of which the record holders of securities entitled to vote at a meeting or by written consent or authorization shall be determined. 


(i) *Record holder.* For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “record holder” means any broker, dealer, voting trustee, bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers which holds securities of record in nominee name or otherwise or as a participant in a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act. 


(j) *Registrant.* The term “registrant” means:


(1) The issuer of a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act; or


(2) An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that has made a public offering of its securities. 


(k) *Respondent bank.* For purposes of § 240.14c-7, the term “respondent bank” means any bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers which holds securities on behalf of beneficial owners and deposits such securities for safekeeping with another bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers.



---

[N] [51 FR 44279, Dec. 9, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 23649, June 24, 1987; 53 FR 16406, May 9, 1988; 57 FR 1101, Jan. 10, 1992]




