# § 361.150   What definitions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act performance accountability provisions?

(a) *Participant.* A reportable individual who has received services other than the services described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, after satisfying all applicable programmatic requirements for the provision of services, such as eligibility determination.


(1) For the Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program, a participant is a reportable individual who has an approved and signed Individualized Plan for Employment (IPE) and has begun to receive services.


(2) For the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I youth program, a participant is a reportable individual who has satisfied all applicable program requirements for the provision of services, including eligibility determination, an objective assessment, and development of an individual service strategy, and received 1 of the 14 WIOA youth program elements identified in sec. 129(c)(2) of WIOA.


(3) The following individuals are not participants:


(i) Individuals in an Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program who have not completed at least 12 contact hours;


(ii) Individuals who only use the self-service system.


(A) Subject to paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, self-service occurs when individuals independently access any workforce development system program's information and activities in either a physical location, such as a one-stop center resource room or partner agency, or remotely via the use of electronic technologies.


(B) Self-service does not uniformly apply to all virtually accessed services. For example, virtually accessed services that provide a level of support beyond independent job or information seeking on the part of an individual would not qualify as self-service.


(iii) Individuals who receive information-only services or activities, which provide readily available information that does not require an assessment by a staff member of the individual's skills, education, or career objectives.


(4) Programs must include participants in their performance calculations.


(b) *Reportable individual.* An individual who has taken action that demonstrates an intent to use program services and who meets specific reporting criteria of the program, including:


(1) Individuals who provide identifying information;


(2) Individuals who only use the self-service system; or


(3) Individuals who only receive information-only services or activities.


(c) *Exit.* As defined for the purpose of performance calculations, exit is the point after which a participant who has received services through any program meets the following criteria:


(1) For the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I, the AEFLA program authorized under WIOA title II, and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, exit date is the last date of service.


(i) The last day of service cannot be determined until at least 90 days have elapsed since the participant last received services; services do not include self-service, information-only services or activities, or follow-up services. This also requires that there are no plans to provide the participant with future services.


(ii) [Reserved].


(2)(i) For the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV (VR program):


(A) The participant's record of service is closed in accordance with § 361.56 because the participant has achieved an employment outcome; or


(B) The participant's service record is closed because the individual has not achieved an employment outcome or the individual has been determined ineligible after receiving services in accordance with § 361.43.


(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a participant will not be considered as meeting the definition of exit from the VR program if the participant's service record is closed because the participant has achieved a supported employment outcome in an integrated setting but not in competitive integrated employment.


(3)(i) A State may implement a common exit policy for all or some of the core programs in WIOA title I and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, and any additional required partner program(s) listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA that is under the authority of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL).


(ii) If a State chooses to implement a common exit policy, the policy must require that a participant is exited only when all of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are met for the WIOA title I core programs and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, as well as any additional required partner programs listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA under the authority of DOL to which the common exit policy applies in which the participant is enrolled.


(d) *State.* For purposes of this part, other than in regard to sanctions or the statistical adjustment model, all references to “State” include the outlying areas of American Samoa, Guam, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and, as applicable, the Republic of Palau.




