# ยง 1.10   Authentication under Departmental Seal and certification of records.

(a) *In general.* Requests seeking either authenticated or certified copies of records will generally be processed under the FOIA. FOIA search, review, and duplication fees, where applicable, may also apply. However, because the costs for authenticated and certified copies are outside of the FOIA, the provisions of ยง 1.12 that call for the automatic waiver of FOIA fees under $25.00 do not apply.


(b) *Authentication of records.* (1) Authentication provides confirmation by a USDA officer that a certified copy of a record is what it purports to be, an accurate duplicate of the original record.


(2) When a request is received for an authenticated copy of a record that the component determines may be made available, under the FOIA, each component will send an authentic (*i.e.,* correct) copy of the record to the Assistant General Counsel in the OGC Division responsible for the applicable component program or other designee of the Secretary of Agriculture. The Assistant General Counsel for the applicable component program or other designee of the Secretary of Agriculture will confirm the authenticity of the record and affix the seal of the USDA to it.


(3) The Hearing Clerk in the Office of Administrative Law Judges may authenticate copies of records for the Hearing Clerk. The Director of the National Appeals Division may authenticate copies of records for the National Appeals Division. The Inspector General is the official who authenticates copies of records for OIG.


(4) When any component determines that a record for which authentication is requested may be made available only in part, because certain portions of it are exempt from release under the FOIA, the component will process the record under the FOIA and make any needed redactions, including notations on the record as to the FOIA exemption(s) which require(s) the removal of the information redacted. In such an instance, the component will supply a copy of the record both in its unredacted state and in its redacted state to the party authorized to perform authentication, along with a copy of the proposed determination letter regarding the withholding of the information redacted.


(5) The cost for authentication of records is $10.00 each.


(c) *Certification of records.* (1) Certification is the procedure by which a USDA official confirms that a copy of a record is a true reproduction of the original.


(2) When a request is received for a certified copy of a record that the component determines may be made available under the FOIA, each component will prepare a correct copy and a statement attesting that the copy is a true and correct copy.


(3) When any component determines that a record for which a certified copy is requested may be made available only in part, because certain portions of it are exempt from release under the FOIA, the component will process the record under the FOIA and make any needed redactions, including notations on the record as to the FOIA exemption(s) which require(s) the removal of the information redacted.


(4) The cost for certification of records is $5.00 each.




