# ยง 581.10   Expression of interest process.

(a) Properties published by HUD as suitable and available, pursuant to ยง 581.8, for application for use to assist the homeless shall not be available for any other purpose for a period of 30 days beginning on the date the list of properties is published on the HUD website. Any eligible organization interested in any underutilized, unutilized, excess, or surplus property for use to assist the homeless must send HHS a written expression of interest in that property within 30 days after the property has been published on the HUD website.


(b) Although a property may be determined suitable by HUD, HUD's determination does not mean a property is necessarily fit for use for the purpose(s) stated in the application, nor does it guarantee subsequent conveyance or transfer of a property.


(c) If a written expression of interest to apply for suitable property for use to assist the homeless is received by HHS within the 30-day holding period, such property may not be made available for any other purpose until the date HHS or the appropriate landholding agency has completed action on the application submitted pursuant to that expression of interest.


(d)(1) The expression of interest should identify the specific property, briefly describe the proposed use, include the name of the organization, and indicate whether it is a public body or a private, non-profit organization. The expression of interest must be sent to HHS by email, *rpb@psc.hhs.gov,* or by mail at the following address: Department of Health and Human Services, Program Manager, Federal Real Property Assistance Program, Real Estate Logistics and Operations, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20852.


(2) HHS will notify the landholding agency (for unutilized and underutilized properties) or GSA (for excess and surplus properties) when an expression of interest has been received for a certain property.


(e) An expression of interest may be sent to and accepted by HHS any time after the 30-day holding period has expired only if the property remains available as determined by GSA or the landholding agency for application to assist the homeless. In such a case, an application submitted pursuant to this expression of interest may be approved for use by the homeless if:


(1) There are no pending applications or written expressions of interest made under any law for use of the property for any purpose; and


(2) In the case of excess or surplus property, GSA has not received a bona fide offer to purchase that property or advertised for the sale of the property by public auction.





---

[N] [89 FR 89881, Nov. 13, 2024]






