# § 351.512   Purchase of goods.

(a) *Benefit*—(1) *In general.* In the case where goods are purchased by the government from a firm, in accordance with section 771(5)(E)(iv) of the Act a benefit exists to the extent that such goods are purchased for more than adequate remuneration.


(2) *Adequate remuneration defined*—(i) *In general.* The Secretary will normally seek to measure the adequacy of remuneration by comparing the price paid to the firm for the good by the government to a market-determined price for the good based on actual transactions, including imports, between private parties in the country in question, but if such prices are not available, then to a world market price or prices for the good.


(ii) *Actual market-determined prices unavailable.* If there are no market-determined domestic or world market prices available, the Secretary may measure the adequacy of remuneration by analyzing any premium in the request for bid or government procurement regulations provided to domestic suppliers of the good or use any other methodology to assess whether the price paid to the firm for the good by the government is consistent with market principles.


(iii) *Exclusion of certain prices.* In measuring the adequacy of remuneration under this section, the Secretary may exclude certain prices from a particular country from its analysis if the Secretary determines that interested parties have demonstrated, with sufficient information, that certain actions, including government laws or policies, such as price or production mandates or controls, likely impact such prices.


(iv) *Use of ex-factory or ex-works price.* In measuring adequate remuneration under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, the Secretary will use an ex-factory or ex-works comparison price and price paid to the firm for the good by the government in order to measure the benefit conferred to the recipient within the meaning of section 771(5)(E) of the Act. The Secretary will, if necessary, adjust the comparison price and the price paid to the firm by the government to remove all delivery charges, import duties, and taxes to derive an ex-factory or ex-works price.


(3) *Exception when the government is both a provider and purchaser of the good.* When the government is both a provider and a purchaser of the good, such as electricity, the Secretary will normally measure the benefit to the recipient firm by comparing the price at which the government provided the good to the price at which the government purchased the same good from the firm.


(b) *Time of receipt of benefit.* In the case of the purchase of a good, the Secretary normally will consider a benefit as having been received as of the date on which the firm receives payment for the purchased good.


(c) *Allocation of benefit to a particular time period.* In the case of the purchase of a good, the Secretary will normally allocate (expense) the benefit to the year in which the benefit is considered to have been received under paragraph (b) of this section. However, if the Secretary considers this purchase to be for or tied to capital assets such as land, buildings, or capital equipment, the benefit will normally be allocated over time as defined in § 351.524(d)(2).





---

[N] [89 FR 101766, Dec. 16, 2024]




