# ยง 738.1   Introduction.

(a) *Commerce Control List scope.* (1) In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) maintains the Commerce Control List (CCL) within the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), which includes items (i.e., commodities, software, and technology) subject to the export licensing authority of BIS. The CCL does not include those items exclusively controlled for export or reexport by another department or agency of the U.S. Government. In instances where agencies other than the Department of Commerce administer controls over related items, entries in the CCL contain a reference to these controls.


(2) The CCL is contained in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR. Supplement no. 2 to part 774 of the EAR contains the General Technology and Software Notes relevant to entries contained in the CCL.


(3) *Items that warrant control for export or reexport but currently are not permanently classified on the CCL.* Items subject to temporary CCL controls are classified under the ECCN 0Y521 series (i.e., 0A521, 0B521, 0C521, 0D521, and 0E521) pursuant to ยง 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR while a determination is made as to whether classification under a revised or new ECCN, or an EAR99 designation, is appropriate.


(b) *Commerce Country Chart scope.* BIS also maintains the Commerce Country Chart. The Commerce Country Chart, located in supplement no. 1 to part 738, contains licensing requirements based on destination and Reason for Control. In combination with the CCL, the Commerce Country Chart allows you to determine whether a license is required for items on the CCL to any country in the world.



---

[N] [61 FR 12756, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 22198, Apr. 13, 2012; 85 FR 23462, Apr. 28, 2020]




