# § 365.101   Applications governed by these rules.

These rules govern the handling of applications for operating authority of the following type:


(a) Applications for certificates of motor carrier registration to operate as a motor carrier of property or passengers.


(b) Applications for permits to operate as a freight forwarder.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) Applications for licenses to operate as a broker of motor vehicle transportation.


(e) Applications for certificates under 49 U.S.C. 13902(b)(3) to operate as a motor carrier of passengers in intrastate commerce over regular routes if such intrastate transportation is to be provided on a route over which the carrier provides interstate transportation of passengers.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) Applications for temporary motor carrier authority.


(h) Applications for Mexico-domiciled motor carriers to operate in foreign commerce as common, contract or private motor carriers of property (including exempt items) between Mexico and all points in the United States. A Mexico-domiciled motor carrier may not provide point-to-point transportation services, including express delivery services, within the United States for goods other than international cargo.


(i) Applications for non-North America-domiciled motor carriers to operate in foreign commerce as for-hire motor carriers of property and passengers within the United States.


(j) The rules in this part do not apply to “pipeline welding trucks” as defined in 49 CFR 390.38(b).



---

[N] [59 FR 63728, Dec. 9, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 63981, Dec. 13, 1995; 62 FR 49940, Sept. 24, 1997; 67 FR 12714, Mar. 19, 2002; 67 FR 61820, Oct. 2, 2002; 73 FR 76488, Dec. 16, 2008; 74 FR 2901, Jan. 16, 2009; 81 FR 47720, July 22, 2016; 80 FR 63704, Oct. 21, 2015; 86 FR 57068, Oct. 14, 2021]


