# ยง 62.4   Categories of participant eligibility.

Sponsors select foreign nationals to participate in exchange visitor program(s) in the United States. Participation is limited to foreign nationals who meet the following criteria for each of the following categories:


(a) *Student.* A foreign national who is:


(1) Studying in the United States and:


(i) Pursuing a full course of study at a secondary accredited academic institution;


(ii) Pursuing a full course of study leading to or culminating in the award of a U.S. degree from a post-secondary accredited academic institution; or


(iii) Engaged full-time in a prescribed course of study of up to 24 months (non-degree) duration conducted by:


(A) A post-secondary accredited academic institution; or


(B) An institute approved by or acceptable to the post-secondary accredited academic institution, where the student is to be enrolled upon completion of the non-degree program;


(2) Engaged in academic training as permitted in ยง 62.23(f);


(3) Engaged in English language training at:


(i) A post-secondary accredited academic institution, or


(ii) An institute approved by or acceptable to the post-secondary accredited academic institution where the college or university student is to be enrolled upon completion of the language training; or


(4) Engaged full-time in a student internship program conducted by a post-secondary accredited academic institution.


(b) *Short-term scholar.* A foreign national who is a professor, research scholar, or person with similar education or accomplishments who enters the United States for a short-term visit for the purpose of lecturing, observing, consulting, training, or demonstrating special skills at research institutions, museums, libraries, post-secondary accredited academic institutions, or similar types of institutions.


(c) *Trainee.* A foreign national participating in a structured and guided work-based training program in his or her specific occupational field (in an occupational category for which a sponsor has obtained designation) who has either:


(1) A degree or professional certificate from a foreign ministerially-recognized post-secondary academic institution and at least one year of prior related work experience in his or her occupational field acquired outside the United States; or


(2) Five years of work experience in his or her occupational field acquired outside the United States.


(d) *Teacher.* A foreign national with the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree in either education or the subject matter (or related subjects) he or she intends to teach and a minimum of the equivalent of two years of post-degree full-time teaching experience, who is employed as a teacher at the time of application for the program, for the purpose of teaching full-time in a primary or secondary accredited academic institution.


(e) *Professor.* A foreign national whose primary purpose is teaching, lecturing, observing, or consulting at post-secondary accredited academic institutions, museums, libraries, or similar types of institutions. A professor also may conduct research where authorized by the sponsor.


(f) *Research scholar.* A foreign national whose primary purpose is conducting research, observing, or consulting in connection with a research project at research institutions, corporate research facilities, museums, libraries, post-secondary accredited academic institutions, or similar types of institutions. A research scholar also may teach or lecture where authorized by the sponsor.


(g) *Specialist.* A foreign national who is an expert in a field of specialized knowledge or skills who enters the United States for the purpose of observing, consulting, or demonstrating special knowledge or skills.


(h) *Other person of similar description.* A foreign national of description similar to those set forth in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section coming to the United States as a participant in an exchange visitor program designated by the Department of State under this category, for the purpose of teaching, instructing or lecturing, studying, observing, conducting research, consulting, demonstrating special skills, or receiving training. The programs designated by the Department of State in this category consist of:


(1) *Alien physician.* A foreign national who is a graduate of a school of medicine who comes to the United States under a program in which he or she will receive graduate medical education or training conducted by accredited U.S. schools of medicine or scientific institutions.


(2) *International visitor.* A foreign national who is a recognized or potential leader, selected by the Department of State for the purpose of consulting, observing, conducting research, training, or demonstrating special skills in the United States.


(3) *Government visitor.* A foreign national who is an influential or distinguished person, selected by a U.S. federal, state, or local government agency for the purpose of consulting, observing, training, or demonstrating special skills in the United States.


(4) *Camp counselor.* A foreign national selected to be a counselor in a summer camp in the United States (e.g., during the U.S. summer months).


(5) *Au pair.* A foreign national who comes to the United States for the purpose of residing with an American host family and participating directly in their home life, while providing limited childcare services, and fulfilling an educational requirement.


(6) *Summer Work and Travel.* A foreign national who is a bona fide foreign post-secondary student, who at the time of application is enrolled in and actively pursuing a degree or a full-time course of study at a foreign ministerially-recognized post-secondary academic institution and whose purpose is work and travel in the United States for up to four months during his or her break between academic years.


(7) *Intern. A* foreign national participating in a structured and guided work-based internship program in his or her specific academic field and who either:


(i) Is currently enrolled full-time in and actively pursuing studies at a foreign ministerially-recognized degree- or certificate-granting post-secondary academic institution outside the United States, or


(ii) Graduated from such an institution no more than 12 months prior to the exchange visitor program begin date reflected on Form DS-2019.



---

[N] [79 FR 60307, Oct. 6, 2014]




