# ยง 380.301   General requirements.

There are two types of LCV driver-instructors: Classroom instructors and Skills instructors. Except as provided in ยง 380.303, an individual must meet the conditions under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section to qualify as an LCV driver-instructor.


(a) *Classroom instructor.* To qualify as an LCV Classroom instructor, a person shall:


(1) Have audited the driver-training course that he/she intends to instruct.


(2) If employed by a training institution, meet all State requirements for a vocational instructor.


(b) *Skills instructor.* To qualify as an LCV skills instructor, a person shall:


(1) Provide evidence of successful completion of the Driver-Training Program requirements, as set forth in subpart B of this part, when requested by employers and/or an authorized FMCSA, State, or local official in the course of a compliance review. The Driver-Training Program must be for the operation of CMVs representative of the subject matter that he/she will teach.


(2) If employed by a training institution, meet all State requirements for a vocational instructor;


(3) Possess a valid Class A CDL with all endorsements necessary to operate the CMVs applicable to the subject matter being taught (LCV Doubles and/or LCV Triples, including any specialized variation thereof, such as a tank vehicle, that requires an additional endorsement); and


(4) Have at least 2 years' CMV driving experience in a vehicle representative of the type of driver training to be provided (LCV Doubles or LCV Triples).



---

[N] [69 FR 16732, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 89 FR 90618, Nov. 18, 2024]




