# § 5.109   Equal participation of faith-based organizations in HUD programs and activities.

(a) *Purpose.* Consistent with Executive Order 13279, entitled “Equal Protection of the Laws for Faith-Based and Community Organizations,” as amended by Executive Order 13559, entitled “Fundamental Principles and Policymaking Criteria for Partnerships With Faith-Based and Other Neighborhood Organizations,” and as amended by Executive Order 14015, entitled “Establishment of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships,” this section describes requirements for ensuring the equal participation of faith-based organizations in HUD programs and activities. These requirements apply to all HUD programs and activities, including all of HUD's Native American Programs, except as may be otherwise noted in the respective program regulations in title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), or unless inconsistent with certain HUD program authorizing statutes.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


*Direct Federal financial assistance* means Federal financial assistance provided when a Federal Government agency or an intermediary, as defined in this section, selects the provider and either purchases services from that provider (*i.e.,* via a contract) or awards funds to that provider to carry out an activity (*e.g.,* via grant, sub-grant, sub-award, or cooperative agreement). The recipients of sub-grants or sub-awards that receive Federal financial assistance through State-administered programs (*e.g.,* flow-through programs) are considered recipients of direct Federal financial assistance. In general, Federal financial assistance shall be treated as direct, unless it meets the definition of indirect Federal financial assistance.


*Federal financial assistance* means assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the forms of grants, contracts, loans, loan guarantees, property, cooperative agreements, food commodities, direct appropriations, or other assistance, but does not include a tax credit, deduction, or exemption.


*Indirect Federal financial assistance* means Federal financial assistance provided when the choice of the provider is placed in the hands of the beneficiary, and the cost of that service is paid through a voucher, certificate, or other similar means of Government-funded payment. Federal financial assistance provided to an organization is considered indirect when the Government program through which the beneficiary receives the voucher, certificate, or other similar means of Government-funded payment is neutral toward religion meaning that it is available to providers without regard to the religious or non-religious nature of the institution and there are no program incentives that deliberately skew for or against religious or secular providers; and the organization receives the assistance wholly as a result of a genuine and independent private choice of the beneficiary, not a choice of the Government. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords true private choice.


*Intermediary* means an entity, including a nongovernmental organization, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State, tribal or local government that accepts Federal financial assistance and distributes that assistance to other entities that, in turn, carry out activities under HUD programs.


*Religious exercise* has the meaning given to the term in 42 U.S.C. 2000cc-5(7)(A).






(c) *Equal participation of faith-based organizations in HUD programs and activities.* (1) Faith-based organizations are eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to participate in any HUD program or activity for which they are otherwise eligible. Neither the Federal Government, nor a State, Tribal, or local government, nor any other entity that administers any HUD program or activity, shall discriminate for or against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization.


(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude HUD from making an accommodation, including for religious exercise, with respect to one or more program requirements on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States.


(3) HUD shall not disqualify an organization from participating in any HUD program for which it is eligible on the basis of the organization's indication that it may request an accommodation with respect to one or more program requirements, unless the organization has made clear that the accommodation is necessary to its participation and, in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States, HUD has determined that it would deny the accommodation.


(4) In addition, decisions about awards of Federal financial assistance must be free from political interference or even the appearance of such interference and must be made on the basis of merit, not based on the organization's religious character, affiliation, or lack thereof, or based on the organization's religious exercise. Notices of funding opportunity, grant agreements, and cooperative agreements shall include language substantially similar to that in appendix A to this subpart, where faith-based organizations are eligible for such opportunities.


(d) *Independence and identity of faith-based organizations.* (1) A faith-based organization that applies for, or participates in, a HUD program or activity supported with Federal financial assistance retains its autonomy, right of expression, religious character, authority over its governance, and independence, and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, development, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs; provided that, it does not use direct Federal financial assistance, whether received through a prime award or sub-award, to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities, including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization.


(2) A faith-based organization that receives direct Federal financial assistance may use space (including a sanctuary, chapel, prayer hall, or other space) in its facilities (including a temple, synagogue, church, mosque, or other place of worship) to carry out activities under a HUD program without concealing, altering, or removing religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols. In addition, a faith-based organization participating in a HUD program or activity retains its authority over its internal governance, and may retain religious terms in its organization's name, select its board members on the basis of their acceptance of or adherence to the religious tenets of the organization consistent with paragraph (i) of this section, and include religious references in its organization's mission statements and other governing documents.


(e) *Explicitly religious activities.* If an organization engages in explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization), the explicitly religious activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or activities supported by direct Federal financial assistance and participation must be voluntary for the beneficiaries of the programs or activities that receive direct Federal financial assistance. The use of indirect Federal financial assistance is not subject to this restriction. Nothing in this part restricts HUD's authority under applicable Federal law to fund activities, that can be directly funded by the Government consistent with the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution.


(f) *Intermediary responsibilities to ensure equal participation of faith-based organizations in HUD programs.* If an intermediary—acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State, tribal or local government that is administering a program supported by Federal financial assistance—is given the authority to select a nongovernmental organization to receive Federal financial assistance under a contract, grant, sub-grant, sub-award, or cooperative agreement, the intermediary must ensure that such organization complies with the requirements of this section. If the intermediary is a nongovernmental organization, it retains all other rights of a nongovernmental organization under the program's statutory and regulatory provisions.


(g) *Nondiscrimination and beneficiary notice requirements*—(1) *Nondiscrimination.* Any organization that receives Federal financial assistance under a HUD program or activity shall not, in providing services supported in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice. However, an organization that participates in a program funded by indirect Federal financial assistance need not modify its program or activities to accommodate a beneficiary who chooses to expend the indirect aid on the organization's program.


(2) *Beneficiary notice.* (i) An organization providing services under a program supported by direct Federal financial assistance from HUD, or an entity that administers indirect Federal financial assistance from HUD, must give written notice to beneficiaries and prospective beneficiaries of certain protections in a manner and form prescribed by HUD, including by incorporating the notice into materials that are otherwise provided to beneficiaries. The required language for this written notice to beneficiaries is set forth in appendix C to this subpart.


(ii) For the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV), Project-Based Voucher (PBV), and Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation programs, the respective recipient (*i.e.,* Public Housing Agency) is required to provide the written beneficiary notice. For the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program, the grantee or project sponsor that is responsible for making eligibility determinations is required to provide the written beneficiary notice. For the Continuum of Care (CoC) and Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) programs, the recipient or subrecipient that is responsible for determining the eligibility of each family or individual is required to provide the written beneficiary notice. The participating or prospective providers (landlords) are not responsible for providing the written beneficiary notice for indirect aid recipients. The notice must include the following information:


(A) Nondiscrimination requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section;


(B) Notification that a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary may report an organization's violation of these protections, including any denials of services or benefits by an organization, by contacting or filing a written complaint with the Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships or the intermediary that awarded funds to the organization; and


(C) For direct Federal financial assistance only, prohibitions with respect to explicitly religious activities as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(3) *Notice timing.* The written notice described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section must be given to a prospective beneficiary prior to the time the prospective beneficiary enrolls in the program or receives services from the program. When the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such written notice in advance of the actual service, an organization must advise beneficiaries of their protections at the earliest available opportunity.


(4) *Alternative option information.* HUD may determine that the notice described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section must inform each beneficiary or prospective beneficiary about how to obtain information from HUD, or a State agency or other entity administering the applicable program, about other federally funded service providers in their area that provide the services available under the applicable program.


(h) *No additional assurances from faith-based organizations.* A faith-based organization is not rendered ineligible by its religious nature to access and participate in HUD programs. Absent regulatory or statutory authority, no notice of funding opportunity, grant agreement, cooperative agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by HUD or a recipient or intermediary in administering Federal financial assistance from HUD shall require otherwise eligible faith-based organizations to provide assurances or notices where they are not required of similarly situated secular organizations. All organizations that participate in HUD programs or activities, including organizations with religious character, motives, or affiliation, must carry out eligible activities in accordance with all program requirements, including those prohibiting the use of direct financial assistance to engage in explicitly religious activities, subject to any accommodations that are granted to organizations on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States. No notice of funding opportunity, grant agreement, cooperative agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by HUD or a recipient or intermediary in administering financial assistance from HUD shall disqualify otherwise eligible faith-based organizations from participating in HUD's programs or activities on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to disqualify a similarly situated secular organization.


(i) *Exemption from Title VII employment discrimination requirements.* A religious organization's exemption from the Federal prohibition on employment discrimination on the basis of religion, set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-1), is not forfeited when the organization participates in a HUD program. Some HUD programs, however, contain independent statutory provisions that impose certain nondiscrimination requirements on all grantees. Accordingly, grantees should consult with the appropriate HUD program office to determine the scope of applicable requirements.


(j) *Acquisition, construction, and rehabilitation of structures.* Direct Federal financial assistance may be used for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures only to the extent that those structures are used for conducting eligible activities under a HUD program or activity. Where a structure is used for both eligible and explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization), direct Federal financial assistance may not exceed the cost of the share of acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation attributable to eligible activities in accordance with the cost accounting requirements applicable to the HUD program or activity. However, acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of sanctuaries, chapels, or other rooms that a HUD-funded faith-based organization uses as its principal place of worship, may not be paid with direct Federal financial assistance. Disposition of real property by a faith-based organization after its use for an authorized purpose, or any change in use of the property from an authorized purpose, is subject to Government-wide regulations governing real property disposition (2 CFR part 200, subpart D) and the HUD program regulations, as directed by HUD.


(k) *Commingling of Federal and State, tribal, and local funds.* If a State, tribal, or local government voluntarily contributes its own funds to supplement direct Federal financial assistance for an activity, the State, tribal or local government has the option to segregate those funds or commingle them with the direct Federal financial assistance. However, if the funds are commingled, the requirements of this section apply to all of the commingled funds. Further, if a State, tribal, or local government is required to contribute matching funds to supplement direct Federal financial assistance for an activity, the matching funds are considered commingled with the direct Federal financial assistance and, therefore, subject to the requirements of this section. Some HUD programs' requirements govern any activity assisted under those programs. Accordingly, recipients should consult with the appropriate HUD program office to determine the scope of applicable requirements.


(l) *Tax exempt organizations.* In general, HUD does not require that a recipient, including a faith-based organization, obtain tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to be eligible for funding under HUD programs. Many grant programs, however, do require an organization to be a nonprofit organization in order to be eligible for funding. Notices of funding availability that require organizations to have nonprofit status will specifically so indicate in the eligibility section of the notice of funding availability. In addition, if any notice of funding availability requires an organization to maintain tax-exempt status, it will expressly state the statutory authority for requiring such status. Applicants should consult with the appropriate HUD program office to determine the scope of any applicable requirements. In HUD programs in which an applicant must show that it is a nonprofit organization but this is not statutorily defined, the applicant may do so by any of the following means:


(1) Proof that the Internal Revenue Service currently recognizes the applicant as an organization to which contributions are tax deductible under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;


(2) A statement from a State or other governmental taxing body or the State secretary of State certifying that—


(i) The organization is a nonprofit organization operating within the State; and


(ii) No part of its net earnings may benefit any private shareholder or individual;


(3) A certified copy of the applicant's certificate of incorporation or similar document that clearly establishes the nonprofit status of the applicant; or


(4) Any item described in paragraphs (l)(1) through (3) of this section, if that item applies to a State or national parent organization, together with a statement by the State or parent organization that the applicant is a local nonprofit affiliate.


(m) *Rule of construction.* Neither HUD nor any recipient or other intermediary receiving funds under any HUD program or activity shall construe these provisions in such a way as to advantage or disadvantage faith-based organizations affiliated with historic or well-established religions or sects in comparison with other religions or sects.



---

[N] [69 FR 41717, July 9, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 75934, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 19416, Apr. 4, 2016; 85 FR 82315, Dec. 17, 2020; 89 FR 15711, Mar. 4, 2024]










