# § 861.6   DOD review of foreign air carriers.

Foreign air carriers providing or seeking to provide services to DOD shall be subject to review and, if appropriate, approval by DOD. Application of the criteria and requirements of this part and the degree of oversight to be exercised by DOD, if any, over a foreign air carrier depends upon the type of services performed and, in some instances, by the quality of oversight exercised by the foreign air carrier's CAA. The scope and frequency of the review of any given foreign air carrier under this part will be at the discretion of the CARB or higher authority.


(a) *Foreign air carriers seeking to provide or providing air transportation services under a contract or Military Air Transportation Agreement with DOD, or pursuant to another arrangement entered into by, or on behalf of, DOD.* Foreign air carriers seeking to provide or providing air transportation services under a contract or Military Air Transportation Agreement with DOD, must meet all requirements of § 861.4, and be approved by the CARB in accordance with § 861.5. This includes foreign air carriers seeking to provide, or providing, airlift services to DOD personnel pursuant to an arrangement entered into by another federal agency, state agency, foreign government, international organization, or other entity or person on behalf of, or for the benefit of, DOD, regardless of whether DOD pays for the airlift services provided. For purposes of establishing the degree of oversight and review to be conducted under the DOD Commercial Air Transportation Quality and Safety Review Program, such foreign air carriers are considered the same as U.S. carriers. In addition, they must have an operating certificate issued by the appropriate CAA using regulations which are the substantial equivalent of those found in the U.S. FARs, and must maintain such certification throughout the term of the contract or agreement. The CAA responsible for exercising oversight of the foreign air carrier must meet ICAO standards as determined by ICAO, or the FAA under the FAA's International Aviation Safety Assessment Program.


(b) *Foreign air carriers providing passenger services under the GSA City Pair Program.* Foreign air carriers performing any portion of a route awarded to a U.S. air carrier under the GSA City Pair Program pursuant to a code-sharing agreement with that U.S. air carrier, are generally not subject to DOD survey and approval under §§ 861.4 and 861.5. However, DOD will periodically review the performance of such foreign carriers. This review may consist of recurring performance evaluations, periodic examination of the U.S. code-sharing carrier's operational reviews and assessments of the foreign carrier and, where appropriate and agreed to by the air carriers concerned and DOD, on-site surveys of the foreign air carrier. Such carriers must also meet the 12 months prior experience requirement of § 861.4(e)(1). The CARB or higher authority may prescribe additional review requirements. Should circumstances warrant, use of these air carriers by DOD passengers on official business may be restricted or prohibited as necessary to assure the highest levels of passenger safety.


(c) *Other foreign air carriers carrying individually ticketed DOD passengers on official business.* Foreign air carriers carrying individually ticketed DOD passengers on official business are not subject to DOD survey and approval under §§ 861.4 and 861.5. However, the DOD Air Carrier Survey and Analysis Division may periodically review the performance of such carriers. Reviews may include voluntary on-site surveys as directed by the CARB or higher authority. In the event questions relating to the safety and continued use of the carrier arise, the matter may be referred to the CARB for appropriate action.


(d) *Foreign air carriers from countries in which the CAA is not in compliance with ICAO standards.* Unless otherwise authorized, use by DOD personnel on official business of foreign air carriers from countries in which the CAA is not in compliance with ICAO standards is prohibited except for the last leg into and the first leg out of the U.S. on such carriers. This includes foreign air carriers performing any portion of a route awarded to a U.S. air carrier under the GSA City Pair Program pursuant to a code-sharing agreement with that U.S. air carrier.


(e) *On-site surveys.* The scope of the on-site survey of a foreign air carrier will be at the discretion of the CARB. In the event a foreign air carrier denies a request made under this part to conduct an on-site survey, the CARB will consider all available information and make a use/nonuse recommendation to DOD. If placed in nonuse status by DOD, such air carriers will not be used unless, in accordance with the reference in § 861.1 (b), in the judgment of the appropriate Combatant Commander, no acceptable alternative to using the carrier exists and the travel is mission essential.


(f) *Foreign carriers providing operational support services to DOD.* Such carriers are subject to DOD oversight, on a case-by-case basis, to the extent directed by the CARB or higher authority.




