# § 24.146   Bonds.

(a) *Wine bond.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the proprietor must give bond on TTB F 5120.36, Wine Bond, to cover the liability for excise taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, on wines produced or received by the proprietor. The bond will apply to wine, spirits, and volatile fruit-flavor concentrate, or other commodities subject to tax under 26 U.S.C. chapter 51, in transit to or on bonded wine premises, and to the operations of the bonded wine premises, whether the transaction or operation on which the proprietor's liability is based occurred on or off the proprietor's premises. The bond will provide that the proprietor shall faithfully comply with all provisions of law and regulation relating to activities covered by the bond. This bond has a tax obligation limit of $500 for wine removed from bonded wine premises on which the tax has been determined, but not paid, unless the total penal sum of the operations bond is $2,000 or more and the proprietor and the surety designate $1,000 of this amount as the obligation limit for wine on which the tax has been determined, but not paid.


(b) *Tax deferral bond.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, where the proprietor removes wine from bonded wine premises for consumption or sale, after determination and before payment of tax, the proprietor must, in addition to any other bond required by this part, furnish a tax deferral bond on TTB F 5120.36, Wine Bond, to ensure payment of the tax on the wine. Under the conditions provided in paragraph (a) of this section, this amount may be changed to $1,000 by the terms of the bond or through a consent of surety between the proprietor and the surety. The tax deferral bond and the wine bond may be submitted on the same TTB F 5120.36.


(c) *Wine vinegar plant bond.* The proprietor of a wine vinegar plant who withdraws wine from a bonded wine premises without payment of tax for use in the manufacture of vinegar shall file a bond on TTB F 5510.2, Bond Covering Removal to and Use of Wine at Vinegar Plant, to ensure the payment of the tax on the wine until such wine becomes vinegar. 


(d) *Bonds covering wine for nonindustrial use and industrial use*—(1)* Nonindustrial use.* A proprietor who pays tax on a deferred basis under § 24.271 is not required to provide a bond or bonds to cover operations and withdrawals of wine for nonindustrial use during any portion of a calendar year for which the proprietor is eligible to use an annual or quarterly return period under § 24.271(b)(1)(ii) or (b)(1)(iii). For purposes of the preceding sentence, a proprietor is considered to be paying tax on a deferred basis even if the proprietor does not pay tax during every return period as long as the proprietor intends to pay tax in a future period. See §§ 24.109 and 24.132 for rules governing applying for this bond exemption. See § 24.154(b) for rules governing when an existing proprietor who has not provided a bond under this paragraph must obtain bond coverage.


(2) *Industrial use.* A proprietor is required to provide a bond or bonds to cover operations and withdrawals of wine for industrial use even if the proprietor pays tax on a deferred basis under § 24.271 and is eligible to use an annual or quarterly return period under § 24.271(b)(1)(ii) or (b)(1)(iii). In the case of a proprietor whose operations or withdrawals involve wine for both nonindustrial and industrial use, wine is considered to be for industrial use for purposes of this paragraph unless the proprietor designates the wine as solely for nonindustrial use upon production of the wine by fermentation or upon receiving the wine and, in either case, does not thereafter mix the wine with any wine for industrial use.


(3) *Nonindustrial use and industrial use defined.* The nonindustrial and industrial uses of wine are defined in subpart D of part 1 of this chapter. Nonindustrial uses of wine include, but are not limited to, uses of wine for beverage purposes. Industrial uses of wine include the manufacture of wine or wine products not for beverage use as set forth in § 24.215.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-338, 58 FR 19064, Apr. 12, 1993; T.D. TTB-79, 74 FR 37404, July 28, 2009; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1124, Jan. 4, 2017]




