# § 305.1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, or any person delegated to act for the Administrator in matters affecting this part.


*APHIS.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*Cold treatment.* Exposure of a commodity to a specified cold temperature that is sustained for a specific time period to kill targeted pests, especially fruit flies.


*Dose mapping.* Measurement of absorbed dose within a process load using dosimeters placed at specified locations to produce a one-, two-, or three-dimensional distribution of absorbed dose, thus rendering a map of absorbed-dose values.


*Dosimeter.* A device that, when irradiated, exhibits a quantifiable change in some property of the device that can be related to absorbed dose in a given material using appropriate analytical instrumentation and techniques.


*Dosimetry system.* A system used for determining absorbed dose, consisting of dosimeters, measurement instruments and their associated reference standards, and procedures for the system's use.


*Fumigant.* A gaseous chemical that easily diffuses and disperses in air and is toxic to the target organism.


*Fumigation.* Releasing and dispersing a toxic chemical in the air so that it reaches the target organism in a gaseous state.


*Inspector.* Any individual authorized by the Administrator of APHIS or the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this part.


*Irradiation.* Treatment with any type of ionizing radiation.


*Methyl bromide.* A colorless, odorless biocide used to fumigate a wide range of commodities.


*Neutralize.* To prevent the establishment of a plant pest by killing it, sterilizing it, preventing its development from an immature stage, or preventing its emergence from its host.


*Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ).* The Plant Protection and Quarantine program of APHIS.




*PPQ Treatment Manual.* A document that contains treatment schedules that are approved by the Administrator for use under this part. The Treatment Manual is available on the internet at *https://acir.aphis.usda.gov/s/treatment-hub,* or by contacting the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Information Services and Manuals Unit, 4700 River Road, Riverdale, MD 20737.




*Quick freeze.* A commercially acceptable method of quick freezing at subzero temperatures with subsequent storage and transportation at not higher than 20 °F. Methods that accomplish this are known as quick freezing, sharp freezing, cold pack, or frozen pack, but may be any equivalent commercially acceptable freezing method.


*Section 18 of Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA).* An emergency exemption granted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to Federal or State agencies authorizing an unregistered use of a pesticide for a limited time.


*Treatment facility.* Any APHIS-certified place, warehouse, or approved enclosure where a treatment is conducted to mitigate a plant pest.


*Vacuum fumigation.* Fumigation performed in a gas-tight enclosure. Most air in the enclosure is removed and replaced with a small amount of fumigant. The reduction in pressure reduces the required duration of the treatment.



---

[N] [75 FR 4241, Jan. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 60360, Sept. 29, 2011; 83 FR 5876, Feb. 12, 2018; 89 FR 79734, Oct. 1, 2024]




