# § 2635.804   Outside earned income limitations applicable to certain Presidential appointees.

This section implements the outside earned income limitations applicable to certain Presidential appointees. The outside earned income limitations applicable to covered noncareer employees, as defined in § 2636.303(a) of this chapter, are implemented in §§ 2636.301 through 2636.304 of this chapter.


(a) *Presidential appointees to full-time noncareer positions.* A Presidential appointee to a full-time noncareer position may not receive any outside earned income for outside employment, or for any other outside activity, performed during that Presidential appointment.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Outside earned income* has the meaning set forth in § 2636.303(b) of this chapter, except that § 2636.303(b)(7) does not apply.


(2) *Presidential appointee to a full-time noncareer position* means any employee who is appointed by the President to a full-time position described in 5 U.S.C. 5312 through 5317 or to a position that, by statute or as a matter of practice, is filled by Presidential appointment, other than:


(i) A position filled under the authority of 3 U.S.C. 105 or 107(a) for which the rate of basic pay is less than that for GS-9, step 1 of the General Schedule;


(ii) A position, within a White House operating unit, that is designated as not normally subject to change as a result of a Presidential transition;


(iii) A position within the uniformed services; or


(iv) A position in which a member of the Foreign Service is serving that does not require advice and consent of the Senate.


*Example 1 to paragraph (b)(2):* A career Department of Justice employee who is detailed to a policy-making position in the White House Office that is ordinarily filled by a noncareer employee is not a Presidential appointee to a full-time noncareer position.


*Example 2 to paragraph (b)(2):* A Department of Energy employee appointed under § 213.3301 of this title to a Schedule C position is appointed by the agency and, thus, is not a Presidential appointee to a full-time noncareer position.






