# § 630.1202   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Accrued leave* has the meaning given that term in § 630.201 of this part.


*Accumulated leave* has the meaning given that term in § 630.201 of this part.


*Administrative workweek* means the scheduled tour of duty within the workweek established by the agency for an employee under the definition of “administrative workweek” in 5 CFR 610.102.


*Adoption* refers to a legal process in which an individual becomes the legal parent of another's child. The source of an adopted child—e.g., whether from a licensed placement agency or otherwise—is not a factor in determining eligibility for leave under this subpart.


*Birth* means the delivery of a living child. When the term “birth” is used in connection with the use of leave under this subpart before birth, it refers to an anticipated birth.




*Covered active duty* or *call to covered active duty status* means—


(1) In the case of a member of a regular component of the Armed Forces, duty during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country under a call or order to active duty (or notification of an impending call or order to active duty); and


(2) In the case of a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, duty during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country under a call or order to active duty (or notification of an impending call or order to active duty) in support of a contingency operation pursuant to any of the following sections of title 10, United States Code, or any other provision of law during a war or during a national emergency declared by the President or Congress:


(i) Section 688, which authorizes ordering to active duty retired members of the Regular Armed Forces and members of the Retired Reserve retired after 20 years for length of service, and members of the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve;


(ii) Section 12301(a), which authorizes ordering all reserve component members to active duty in the case of war or national emergency declared by Congress, or when otherwise authorized by law;


(iii) Section 12302, which authorizes ordering any unit or unassigned member of the Ready Reserve to active duty in time of national emergency declared by the President after January 1, 1953, or when otherwise authorized by law;


(iv) Section 12304, which authorizes ordering any unit or unassigned member of the Selected Reserve and certain members of the Individual Ready Reserve to active duty;


(v) Section 12305, which authorizes the suspension of promotion, retirement, or separation rules for certain Reserve components;


(vi) Section 12406, which authorizes calling the National Guard into Federal service in certain circumstances; or


(vii) Chapter 15, which authorizes calling the National Guard and State militia into Federal service in the case of insurrections and national emergencies.


*Covered military member* means the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent on covered active duty or call to covered active duty status.


*Employee* means an individual to whom this subpart applies.


*Essential functions* means the fundamental job duties of the employee's position, as defined in 29 CFR 1630.2(n). An employee who must be absent from work to receive medical treatment for a serious health condition is considered to be unable to perform the essential functions of the position during the absence for treatment.


*Family and medical leave* means an employee's entitlement to 12 administrative workweeks (or 26 administrative workweeks in the case of leave under § 630.1203(j)) of unpaid leave for certain family and medical needs, as prescribed under sections 6381 through 6387 of title 5, United States Code.


*Foster care* means 24-hour care for children in substitution for, and away from, their parents or guardian. Such placement is made by or with the agreement of the State as a result of a voluntary agreement by the parent or guardian that the child be removed from the home, or pursuant to a judicial determination of the necessity for foster care, and involves agreement between the State and foster family to take the child. Although foster care may be with relatives of the child, State action is involved in the removal of the child from parental custody.


*Health care provider means—*

(1) A licensed Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy or a physician who is serving on active duty in the uniformed services and is designated by the uniformed service to conduct examinations under this subpart; 


(2) Any health care provider recognized by the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program or who is licensed or certified under Federal or State law to provide the service in question; 


(3) A health care provider as defined in paragraph (2) of this definition who practices in a country other than the United States, who is authorized to practice in accordance with the laws of that country, and who is performing within the scope of his or her practice as defined under such law; 


(4) A Christian Science practitioner listed with the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts; or 


(5) A Native American, including an Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiian, who is recognized as a traditional healing practitioner by native traditional religious leaders who practices traditional healing methods as believed, expressed, and exercised in Indian religions of the American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiians, consistent with Public Law 95-314, August 11, 1978 (92 Stat. 469), as amended by Public Law 103-344, October 6, 1994 (108 Stat. 3125). 


*In loco parentis* refers to the situation of an individual who has day-to-day responsibility for the care and financial support of a child or, in the case of an employee, who had such responsibility for the employee when the employee was a child. A biological or legal relationship is not necessary.


*Incapacity* means the inability to work, attend school, or perform other regular daily activities because of a serious health condition or treatment for or recovery from a serious health condition. 


*Intermittent leave or leave taken intermittently* means leave taken in separate blocks of time, rather than for one continuous period of time, and may include leave periods of 1 hour to several weeks. Leave may be taken for a period of less than 1 hour if agency policy provides for a minimum charge for leave of less than 1 hour under § 630.206(a). 


*Leave without pay* means an approved absence from duty in a nonpay status during an employee's scheduled tour of duty.


*Parent* means a biological, adoptive, step, or foster father or mother, or any individual who stands or stood in loco parentis to an employee meeting the definition of son or daughter below. This term does not include parents “in law.”


*Placement* means a new placement of a son or daughter with an employee for adoption or foster care. For example, this excludes the adoption of a stepchild or a foster child who has already been a member of the employee's household and has an existing parent-child relationship with an adopting parent. When the term “placement” is used in connection with the use of leave under this subpart before placement has occurred, it refers to a planned or anticipated placement.


*Reduced leave schedule* means a daily or weekly work schedule under which the usual number of hours actually worked during the employee's scheduled tour of duty are reduced as a result of the increased use of leave.


*Scheduled tour of duty* means the regular work hours in an established full-time or part-time work schedule during which an employee is charged leave or time off when absent. A seasonal employee is not considered to have such a tour during off-season periods when the employee is scheduled to be released from work and placed in full-time nonpay status.


*Serious health condition.* (1) Serious health condition means an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that involves— 


(i) Inpatient care (*i.e.,* an overnight stay) in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility, including any period of incapacity or any subsequent treatment in connection with such inpatient care; or 


(ii) Continuing treatment by a health care provider that includes (but is not limited to) examinations to determine if there is a serious health condition and evaluations of such conditions if the examinations or evaluations determine that a serious health condition exists. Continuing treatment by a health care provider may include one or more of the following—


(A) A period of incapacity of more than 3 consecutive calendar days, including any subsequent treatment or period of incapacity relating to the same condition, that also involves—


(*1*) Treatment two or more times by a health care provider, by a health care provider under the direct supervision of the affected individual's health care provider, or by a provider of health care services under orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider; or 


(*2*) Treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion which results in a regimen of continuing treatment under the supervision of the health care provider (e.g., a course of prescription medication or therapy requiring special equipment to resolve or alleviate the health condition). 


(B) Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy or childbirth, or for prenatal care, even if the affected individual does not receive active treatment from a health care provider during the period of incapacity or the period of incapacity does not last more than 3 consecutive calendar days. 


(C) Any period of incapacity or treatment for such incapacity due to a chronic serious health condition that—


(*1*) Requires periodic visits for treatment by a health care provider or by a health care provider under the direct supervision of the affected individual's health care provider, 


(*2*) Continues over an extended period of time (including recurring episodes of a single underlying condition); and 


(*3*) May cause episodic rather than a continuing period of incapacity (e.g., asthma, diabetes, epilepsy, etc.). The condition is covered even if the affected individual does not receive active treatment from a health care provider during the period of incapacity or the period of incapacity does not last more than 3 consecutive calendar days. 


(D) A period of incapacity which is permanent or long-term due to a condition for which treatment may not be effective. The affected individual must be under the continuing supervision of, but need not be receiving active treatment by, a health care provider (e.g., Alzheimer's, severe stroke, or terminal stages of a disease). 


(E) Any period of absence to receive multiple treatments (including any period of recovery) by a health care provider or by a provider of health care services under orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider, either for restorative surgery after an accident or other injury or for a condition that would likely result in a period of incapacity or more than 3 consecutive calendar days in the absence of medical intervention or treatment (e.g., chemotherapy/radiation for cancer, physical therapy for severe arthritis, dialysis for kidney disease). 


(2) (Serious health condition does not include routine physical, eye, or dental examinations; a regimen of continuing treatment that includes the taking of over-the-counter medications, bed-rest, exercise, and other similar activities that can be initiated without a visit to the health care provider; a condition for which cosmetic treatments are administered, unless inpatient hospital care is required or unless complications develop; or an absence because of an employee's use of an illegal substance, unless the employee is receiving treatment for substance abuse by a health care provider or by a provider of health care services on referral by a health care provider. Ordinarily, unless complications arise, the common cold, the flu, earaches, upset stomach, minor ulcers, headaches (other than migraines), routine dental or orthodontia problems, and periodontal disease are not serious health conditions. Allergies, restorative dental or plastic surgery after an injury, removal of cancerous growth, or mental illness resulting from stress may be serious health conditions only if such conditions require inpatient care or continuing treatment by a health care provider.)


*Son or daughter* means a biological, adopted, or foster child; a step child; a legal ward; or a child of a person standing *in loco parentis* who is—


(1) Under 18 years of age; or


(2) 18 years of age or older and incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability. A son or daughter incapable of self-care requires active assistance or supervision to provide daily self-care in three or more of the “activities of daily living” (ADL's) or “instrumental activities of daily living” (IADL's). Activities of daily living include adaptive activities such as caring appropriately for one's grooming and hygiene, bathing, dressing, and eating. Instrumental activities of daily living include cooking, cleaning, shopping, taking public transportation, paying bills, maintaining a residence, using the telephones and directories, using a post office, etc. A “physical or mental disability” refers to a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of an individual as defined in 29 CFR 1630.2 (h), (i) and (j).


*Son or daughter on covered active duty or call to covered active duty status* means the employee's biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for whom the employee stood in loco parentis, who is on covered active duty or call to covered active duty status, and who is of any age.


*Spouse,* as defined in the statute, means a husband or wife. For purposes of this definition, husband or wife refers to the other person with whom an individual entered into marriage as defined or recognized under State law for purposes of marriage in the State where the marriage was entered into or, in the case of a marriage entered into outside of any State, if the marriage is valid in the place where entered into and could have been entered into in at least one State. This definition includes an individual in a same-sex or common law marriage that either:


(1) Was entered into in a State that recognizes such marriages, or


(2) If entered into outside of any State, is valid in the place where entered into and could have been entered into in at least one State.


*State* means any State of the United States or the District of Columbia or any Territory or possession of the United States.


*Tour of duty* has the meaning given that term in § 610.102 of this chapter.



---

[N] [58 FR 39602, July 23, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 61 FR 64451, Dec. 5, 1996; 65 FR 37240, June 13, 2000; 76 FR 60704, Sept. 30, 2011; 81 FR 20524, Apr. 8, 2016; 85 FR 48089, Aug. 10, 2020]




