# § 404.1302   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Act* means the Social Security Act, as amended.


*Active duty* means periods of time an individual is on full-time duty in the active military or naval service after 1956 and includes active duty for training after 1956.


*Active service* means periods of time prior to 1957 an individual was on full-time duty in the active military or naval service. It does not include totaling periods of active duty for training purposes before 1957 which are less than 90 days.


*Allied country* means a country at war on September 16, 1940, with a country with which the United States was at war during the World War II period. Each of the following countries is considered an allied country: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, India, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom.


*Domiciled in the United States* means an individual has a true, fixed, and permanent home in the United States to which the individual intends to return whenever he or she is absent.


*Federal benefit* means a benefit which is payable by another Federal agency (other than the Veterans Administration) or an instrumentality owned entirely by the United States under any law of the United States or under a program or pension system set up by the agency or instrumentality.


*Post-World War II period* means the time period July 25, 1947, through December 31, 1956.


*Reserve component* means Army Reserve, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, Air Force Reserve, Coast Guard Reserve, National Guard of the United States or Air National Guard of the United States.


*Resided in the United States* means an individual had a place where he or she lived, whether permanently or temporarily, in the United States and was bodily present in that place.


*Survivor* means you are a parent, widow, divorced wife, widower, or child of a deceased veteran or member of a uniformed service.


*United States* means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.


*Veteran* means an individual who served in the active military or naval service of the United States and was discharged or released from that service under conditions other than dishonorable. For a more detailed definition of the World War II veteran and a post-World War II veteran, see §§ 404.1310 and 404.1320.


*Wage credit* means a dollar amount we add to the earnings record of a veteran of the World War II or the post-World War II period. It is also a dollar amount we add to the earnings record of a member of a uniformed service who was on active duty from 1957 through 2001. The amount is set out in the Act and is added for each month, calendar quarter, or calendar year of service as required by law.


*We, us,* or *our* means the Social Security Administration.


*World War II period* means the time period September 16, 1940, through July 24, 1947.


*You* or *your* means a veteran, a veteran's survivor or a member of a uniformed service applying for or entitled to a social security benefit or a lump-sum death payment.



---

[N] [45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 11865, Mar. 10, 2005]




