# § 417.802   Allowable costs.

(a) *General rule.* The costs that are considered allowable for HCPP reimbursement are the same as those for reasonable cost HMOs and CMPs specified in subpart O of this part, except those in §§ 417.531, 417.532 (a)(3) and (c) through (g), 417.536 (l) and (m), 417.546, 417.548, and 417.550(b)(2).


(b) *Physicians' services and other Part B supplier services furnished under arrangements*—(1) *Principle.* The amount paid by an HCPP for physicians' services and other Part B supplier services furnished under arrangements is an allowable cost to the extent it is reasonable.


(2) *Application: Payment on other than a fee-for-service basis.* If the HCPP pays for physicians' services and other Part B supplier services on other than a fee-for-service basis—


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the costs incurred by the HCPP may be considered reasonable if they—


(A) Do not exceed those that a prudent and cost-conscious buyer would incur to purchase those services; and


(B) Are comparable to costs incurred for similar services furnished by similar physicians and other suppliers in the same or a similar locality.


(ii)(A) If a physician group to whom the HCPP makes payment compensates its physicians on a fee-for-service basis, the HCPP's payment to the group may not exceed the reasonable charges for those services, as defined in subpart E of part 405 of this chapter.


(B) Payment in excess of the limits specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section is allowable if the group has procedures under which members of the group accept effective incentives, such as risk-sharing, designed to avoid unnecessary or unduly costly utilization of health services. In such cases, the amount paid by the HCPP is considered reasonable if it meets the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Application: Payment on a fee-for-service basis.* If the HCPP pays for physicians' services and other Part B supplier services on a fee-for-service basis—


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the costs incurred by the HCPP are considered reasonable if they do not exceed—


(A) The reasonable charges for those services, as defined in subpart E of part 405 of this chapter; and


(B) The amount that CMS would pay for those services if they were furnished to beneficiaries who are not enrolled in the HCPP and who receive the services from sources other than providers of services or other entities that are reimbursed on a reasonable cost basis.


(ii) Payment to a physician group organized on an individual-practice basis is not subject to the paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section if the group pays its physicians on a fee-for-service basis and has procedures under which the members of the group accept effective incentives, such as risk-sharing, designed to avoid unnecessary or unduly costly utilization of health services. In these cases, the amount paid by an HCPP is considered reasonable if it meets the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [50 FR 1375, Jan. 10, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 38081, July 15, 1993]




