# ยง 740.15   Bonds on Federal lands.

(a) *Federal lease bonds.* (1) Each holder of a Federal coal lease that is covered by a Federal lease bond required under 43 CFR part 3474 may apply to the authorized officer for release of liability for that portion of the Federal lease bond that covers reclamation requirements.


(2) The authorized officer may release the liability for that portion of the Federal lease bond that covers reclamation requirements if:


(i) The lessee has secured a suitable performance bond covering the permit area under this part;


(ii) There are no pending actions or unresolved claims against existing bonds; and


(iii) The authorized officer has received concurrence from OSM and the Bureau of Land Management.


(b) *Performance bonds.* Where the State is the regulatory authority under a cooperative agreement, the performance bonds required for operations on Federal lands shall be made payable to the United States and the State. Where OSM is the regulatory authority, such bonds shall be payable only to the United States.


(c) *Federal lessee protection bonds.* (1) Where leased Federal coal is to be mined and the surface of the land is subject to a lease or permit issued by the United States for purposes other than surface coal mining, the applicant for a mining permit, if unable to obtain the written consent of the permittee or lessee of the surface to enter and commence surface coal mining operations, shall submit to the regulatory authority with his application evidence of execution of a bond or undertaking which meets the requirements of this section. The Federal lessee protection bond is in addition to the performance bond required by a regulatory program. This section does not apply to permits or licenses for the use of the surface that do not convey to the permittee or licensee the right of transfer, sale or consent to other uses.


(2) The bond shall be payable to the United States and, as applicable, the State for the use and benefit of the permittee or lessee of the surface lands involved.


(3) The bond shall secure payment to the surface estate for any damage which the surface coal mining and reclamation operation causes to the crops or tangible improvements of the permittee or lessee of the surface lands.


(4) The amount of the bond shall be determined either by the applicant and the Federal lessee or permittee or as determined in an action brought against the person conducting surface coal mining and reclamation operations or upon the bond in a court of competent jurisdiction.


(d) *Release of bonds.* (1) A Federal lease bond may be released upon satisfactory compliance with all applicable requirements of 43 CFR Group 3400 and after the release is concurred in by the Bureau of Land Management.


(2) A Federal lessee protection bond shall be released upon the written consent of the permittee or lessee.


(3) Where surface coal mining and reclamation operations are subject to an approved mining plan, a performance bond shall be released by the State after the release is concurred in by OSM.



---

[N] [48 FR 6935, Feb. 16, 1983; 48 FR 13985, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 44779, Sept. 30, 1983; 55 FR 9402, Mar. 13, 1990]




