# § 306.37   Interest on registered securities.

(a) *Method of payment.* The interest on registered securities is payable by checks drawn on the United States Treasury to the order of the registered owners, except as otherwise provided herein. Interest checks are prepared by the Department in advance of the interest payment data and are ordinarily mailed in time to reach the addresses on that date. Interest on a registered security which has not matured or been called and which is presented for any transaction during the period the books for that loan are closed will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record. Upon receipt of notice of the death or incompetency of an individual named as registered owner, a change in the name or in the status of a partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association, the removal, resignation, succession, or death of a fiduciary or trustee, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending receipt and approval of evidence showing who is entitled to receive the interest checks. If the inscriptions on securities do not clearly identify the owners, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending reissue of the securities in the correct registration. The final installment of interest, unless otherwise provided in the offering circular or notice of call, will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record and mailed in advance of the interest payment date in time to reach the addressee on or about that date. Interest on securities presented for prerefunding or advance refunding will be adjusted as provided in the prerefunding or advance refunding offer.


(b) *Change of address.* To assure timely delivery of interest checks, owners should promptly notify the Bureau of any change of address. (Form PD 345 may be used.) The notification must be signed by the registered owner or a joint owner or an authorized representative, and should show the owner's taxpayer identifying number, the old and new addresses, the serial number and denomination of each security, the titles of the securities (for example: 4
1/4 percent Treasury Bonds of 1987-92, dated August 15, 1962), and the registration of each security. Notifications by attorneys in fact, trustees, or by the legal representatives of the estates of deceased, incompetent, or minor owners should be supported by proof of their authority, unless, in the case of trustees or legal representatives, they are named in the registration.


(c) *Collection of interest checks*—(1) *General.* Interest checks may be collected in accordance with the regulations governing the endorsement and payment of Government warrants and checks, which are contained in the current revision of Department Circular No. 21 (part 240 of this chapter).


(2) *By voluntary guardians of incompetents.* Interest checks drawn to the order of a person who has become incompetent and for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has been appointed should be returned to the Bureau with a full explanation of the circumstances. For collection of interest, the Department will recognize the relative responsible for the incompetent's care and support or some other person as voluntary guardian for the incompetent. (Application may be made on Form PD 1461.)


(d) *Nonreceipt, loss, theft, or destruction of interest checks.* If an interest check is not received within a reasonable period after an interest payment date, or if a check is lost, stolen, or destroyed after receipt, notification should be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Customer Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102. Notification should include the name and address of the owner, his taxpayer identifying number, and the serial number, denomination, and title of the security upon which the interest was payable. If the check is subsequently received or recovered, the Bureau should be notified.



---

[N] [38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]




