# § 675.20   Eligible employers and general conditions and limitation on employment.

(a) *Eligible FWS employers.* A student may be employed under the FWS program by—


(1) The institution in which the student is enrolled;


(2) A Federal, State, or local public agency;


(3) A private nonprofit organization; or


(4) A private for-profit organization.


(b) *Agreement between institution and organization.* (1) If an institution wishes to have its students employed under this part by a Federal, State or local public agency, or a private nonprofit or for-profit organization, it shall enter into a written agreement with that agency or organization. The agreement must set forth the FWS work conditions. The agreement must indicate whether the institution or the agency or organization shall pay the students employed, except that the agreement between an institution and a for-profit organization must require the employer to pay the non-Federal share of the student earnings.


(2) The institution may enter into an agreement with an agency or organization that has professional direction and staff. 


(3) The institution is responsible for ensuring that—


(i) Payment for work performed under each agreement is properly documented; and


(ii) Each student's work is properly supervised.


(4) The agreement between the institution and the employing agency or nonprofit organization may require the employer to pay—


(i) The non-Federal share of the student earnings; and


(ii) Required employer costs such as the employer's share of social security or workers' compensation.


(c) *FWS general employment conditions and limitation.* (1) Regardless of the student's employer, the student's work must be governed by employment conditions, including pay, that are appropriate and reasonable in terms of—


(i) Type of work;


(ii) Geographical region;


(iii) Employee proficiency; and


(iv) Any applicable Federal, State, or local law.


(2) FWS employment may not—


(i) Impair existing service contracts;


(ii) Displace employees;


(iii) Fill jobs that are vacant because the employer's regular employees are on strike;


(iv) Involve the construction, operation, or maintenance of so much of any facility as is used or is to be used for instruction that is predominantly devotional and religious or as a place for religious worship, except to the extent that excluding such work would impose a substantial burden on a person's exercise of religion.


(v) Include employment for the U.S. Department of Education.


(d) *Academic credit and work-study.* (1) A student may be employed under the FWS program and also receive academic credit for the work performed. Those jobs include, but are not limited to, work performed when the student is—


(i) Enrolled in an internship;


(ii) Enrolled in a practicum; or


(iii) Employed in a research, teaching, or other assistantship.


(2) A student employed in an FWS job and receiving academic credit for that job may not be—


(i) Paid less than he or she would be if no academic credit were received;


(ii) Paid for receiving instruction in a classroom, laboratory, or other academic setting; and


(iii) Paid unless the employer would normally pay the person for the same position.



---

[N] [52 FR 45770, Dec. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 49147, Dec. 6, 1988; 59 FR 61419, Nov. 30, 1994; 62 FR 50848, Sept. 26, 1997; 64 FR 58293, Oct. 28, 1999; 85 FR 49821, Aug. 14, 2020]




