# ยง 894.504   When is my enrollment effective?

(a) Open season enrollments are effective on the date set by OPM.


(b) If you enroll when you first become eligible your enrollment is effective the 1st *day* of the pay period following the one in which the *Administrator* receives your enrollment, but no earlier than December 31, 2006.


(c) If you are a *TEI* and enroll or are enrolled during the open season, your enrollment is effective no earlier than January 1, 2019.


(d) Outside of open season, if you are an active duty service member who becomes a uniformed services retiree (*TEI*) and enroll or are enrolled 31 days before you lose other dental or vision coverage, your enrollment is effective no earlier than the date you lost other coverage.


(e) A *QLE* enrollment or change is effective the 1st *day* of the pay period following the date of your *QLE.*

)


(f)(1) A belated open season enrollment or change is effective retroactive to the date it would have been effective if you had made a timely enrollment or request for a change.


(2) Any belated enrollment or change outside of open season that goes beyond the allowable 60-day enrollment timeframe is effective retroactive to the 1st *day* of the pay period following the one in which you became newly eligible or the date of your *QLE.*

(3) You must pay any retroactive premiums due to a belated enrollment or request for a change.



---

[N] [73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]




