# § 721.10269   [5,6]Fullerene-C84-D2.

(a) Chemical *substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as [5,6]Fullerene-C84-D2 (PMN P-09-56; CAS No. 145809-19-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k)(an intermediate compound for use in producing downstream products that will in turn be used in organic electronic devices and an additive to improve mechanical properties or conductivity; a compound used to improve the mechanical properties of rubbers, plastics, and lubricants; or a compound for use as an additive to increase the conductivity of materials).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b),(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requireme*nts. The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 38219, June 26, 2013]




