# ยง 111.76   Reopening the case.

(a) *Grounds for reopening.* Provided that no appeal is filed in accordance with ยง 111.75, a person whose license or permit has been suspended or revoked, or against whom a monetary penalty has been assessed in lieu of suspension or revocation, may make application to the appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, to reopen the case and have the order of suspension or revocation or monetary penalty assessment set aside or modified on the ground that new evidence has been discovered or on the ground that important evidence is now available which could not be produced at the original hearing by the exercise of due diligence. The application must set forth the precise character of the evidence to be relied upon and must state the reasons why the applicant was unable to produce it when the original charges were heard. 






(b) *Procedure.* The appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, will forward the application, together with a recommendation for action thereon, to the Executive Assistant Commissioner. The Executive Assistant Commissioner may grant or deny the application to reopen the case and may order the taking of additional testimony before the appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade. The appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, will notify the applicant of the decision by the Executive Assistant Commissioner. If the Executive Assistant Commissioner grants the application and orders a hearing, the appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, will set a time and place for the hearing and give due written notice of the hearing to the applicant. The procedures governing the new hearing and recommended decision of the hearing officer will be the same as those governing the original proceeding. The original order of the Executive Assistant Commissioner will remain in effect pending conclusion of the new proceedings and issuance of a new order under ยง 111.77.







---

[N] [T.D. 00-17, 65 FR 13891, Mar. 15, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 22-21, 87 FR 63320, Oct. 18, 2022]






















