# § 1005.609   Remittance of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.

(a) Where applicable, monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee shall be due and payable to HUD no later than the 15th day of each month, beginning in the month in which the Borrower is required to make the first monthly loan payment. Monthly payments of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee must be submitted using a HUD prescribed payment system, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(b) Where applicable, subject to the exception in paragraph (d) of this section, the Servicer shall continue to collect from the Borrower, as established by a schedule provided in § 1005.607(b) and pay HUD the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, without taking into account Borrower's default, loss mitigation, prepayments, agreements to postpone payments, or agreements to recast the loan. Any changes to the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(c) Where applicable, the Servicer shall adjust the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee in accordance the schedule provided in § 1005.607(b). Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Servicer shall refund to the Borrower any overpayment of Annual Loan Guarantee Fees collected from the Borrower, due to a delayed adjustment of the Loan Guarantee Fee, within 30 days of the overpayment. Failure to refund the Borrower within this timeframe will result in a penalty in accordance with § 1005.611.


(d) Where applicable, the Servicer shall cease collecting the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee when the amortized loan to value ratio equals an amount less than the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee termination threshold loan-to-value ratio as established by the Secretary in the _Federal Register_ and established by a schedule provided in § 1005.607(b). Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Servicer shall refund to the Borrower any overpayment of Annual Loan Guarantee Fees collected when the loan-to-value ratio falls below the threshold established by the Secretary in the _Federal Register,_ within 30 days of the overpayment. Failure to refund the Borrower within this timeframe will result in penalty in accordance with § 1005.611.


(e) Annual Loan Guarantee Fees paid, if any, in accordance with the schedule provided in § 1005.607(b) shall not be refundable to the Borrower.


(f) Where applicable, if the Servicer submits the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee to HUD after the due date, the amount paid must include the required payment of penalties pursuant to § 1005.611(c).


(g)(1) When transfer of servicing occurs in accordance with § 1005.707:


(i) The schedule of monthly installment payments provided in § 1005.607(b) must be provided to the new Servicer; and


(ii) The account reconciliation of the Upfront Guarantee Fee and Annual Loan Guarantee Fee due and remitted to HUD must be provided to the new Servicer.


(2) The new Servicer is responsible for compliance with all requirements of this part, including, but not limited to, any outstanding Annual Loan Guarantee Fee payments and penalties owed to HUD, or any Annual Loan Guarantee Fee adjustments or refunds due to the Borrower.


(3) If a transfer results in missed monthly installment(s) of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, the new Servicer shall pay the overdue installment(s) in a lump sum to HUD within 30 days of acquisition of the loan and include any applicable penalties in accordance with § 1005.611.


(h) The Direct Guarantee Lender shall provide an account reconciliation of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee in the time and manner as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.






