# § 1330.402   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Appraisal system* means the policies, practices, and procedures an agency establishes under 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 and 5 CFR part 430, subparts B and C, or other applicable legal authority, for planning, monitoring, developing, evaluating, and rewarding employee performance. This includes appraisal systems and appraisal programs as defined at § 430.203 and performance management systems as defined at § 430.303.


*GPRA* means the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993.


*OMB* means the Office of Management and Budget.


*OPM* means the Office of Personnel Management.


*Outstanding performance* means performance that substantially exceeds the normally high performance expected of any senior employee, as evidenced by exceptional accomplishments or contributions to the agency's performance.


*Performance evaluation* means the comparison of the actual performance of senior employees against their performance expectations and may take into account their contribution to agency performance, where appropriate.


*Performance expectations* means critical and other performance elements and performance requirements that constitute the senior executive performance plans (as defined in § 430.303) established for senior executives, the performance elements and standards that constitute the performance plans (as defined in § 430.203) established for senior professionals, or other appropriate means authorized under performance appraisal systems not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 for communicating what a senior employee is expected to do and the manner in which he/she is expected to do it, and may include contribution to agency performance, where appropriate.


*Program performance measures* means results-oriented measures of performance, whether at the agency, component, or function level, which include, for example, measures under the Government Performance and Results Act.


*PRB* means Performance Review Board, as described at § 430.310.


*Relative performance* means the performance of a senior employee with respect to the performance of other senior employees, including their contribution to agency performance, where appropriate, as determined by the application of a certified appraisal system.


*Senior employee* means a senior executive or a senior professional.


*Senior executive* means a member of the Senior Executive Service (SES) paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383.


*Senior professional* means an employee in a senior-level (SL) or scientific or professional position (ST) paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376.




