# ยง 831.912   Elections to be deemed a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes by certain police officers employed by the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA).

(a) *Who may elect.* Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA) police officers employed as members of the MWAA police force as of December 21, 2000, who are covered by the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement System by 49 U.S.C. 49107(b) may elect to be deemed a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes and have past service as a member of the MWAA and Federal Aviation Administration police forces credited as law enforcement officer service. 


(b) *Procedure for making an election.* Elections by an MWAA police officer to be treated as a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes must be made in writing to the MWAA and filed in the employee's personnel file in accordance with procedures established by OPM in consultation with the MWAA. 


(c) *Time limit for making an election.* An election under paragraph (a) of this section must be made either before the MWAA police officer separates from service with the MWAA or July 25, 2002. 


(d) *Effect of an election.* An election under paragraph (a) of this section is effective on the beginning of the first pay period following the date of the MWAA police officer's election. 


(e) *Irrevocability.* An election under paragraph (a) of this section becomes irrevocable when received by the MWAA. 


(f) *Employee payment for past service.* (1) An MWAA police officer making an election under this section must pay an amount equal to the difference between law enforcement officer retirement deductions and retirement deductions actually paid by the police officer for the police officer's past police officer service with the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority and Federal Aviation Administration. The amount paid under this paragraph shall be computed with interest in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8334(e) and paid to the MWAA prior to separation. 


(2) Starting with the effective date under paragraph (d) of this section, the MWAA must make deductions and withholdings from the electing MWAA police officer's base pay in accordance with 5 CFR 831.907. 


(g) *Employer contributions.* (1) Upon the police officer's payment for past service credit under paragraph (f) of this section, the MWAA must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the additional agency retirement contribution amounts required for the police officer's past service, plus interest. 


(2) Starting with the effective date under paragraph (d) of this section, the MWAA must make agency contributions for the electing police officer in accordance with 5 CFR 831.907. 


(h) *Mandatory Separation.* (1) An MWAA police officer who elects to be treated as a law enforcement officer for CSRS retirement purposes is subject to the mandatory separation provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) and 5 CFR 831.502(a). 


(2) The President and Chief Operating Officer of the MWAA is deemed to be the head of an agency for the purpose of exempting an MWAA police officer from mandatory separation in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) and 5 CFR 831.502. 


(i) *Reemployment.* An MWAA police officer who has been mandatorily separated under 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) is not barred from reemployment after age 60 in any position except a CSRS primary or secondary law enforcement officer position or a FERS rigorous law or secondary enforcement officer position. Service by a reemployed former MWAA police officer who retired under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) is not covered by the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336(c).



---

[N] [66 FR 38524, July 25, 2001]




