# ยง 200.943   Supplementary specific requirements under the HUD building product standards and certification program for the grademarking of lumber.

(a) *Applicable standard.* (1) In accordance with UM 38j, lumber shall be grademarked in compliance with the U.S. Department of Commerce Voluntary Product Standard PS 20-94 American Softwood Lumber Standard.


(2) This standard has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. It is available from the U.S. Department of Commerce, NIST, Office of Voluntary Product Standards, Gaithersburg, MD 20899.


(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(6) concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applicable standard are required on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. However, in the case of grademarking of lumber, the following information shall be included on the certification label or mark:


(1) The registered symbol which identifies the grading agency;


(2) Species or species combination;


(3) Grade;


(4) Identification of the applicable grading rules when not indicated by the species identification or agency symbol;


(5) Mill or grader;


(6) For members which are less than 5 inches in nominal thickness, indication that the lumber was green or dry at the time of dressing;


(7) Indication that the lumber was finger jointed; and


(8) The certification mark shall be affixed to each piece of lumber.


(c) *Periodic tests and quality assurance.* Periodic tests and quality assurance inspections shall be carried out by the American Lumber Standard Committee as defined in PS 20-94.



---

[N] [63 FR 5423, Feb. 2, 1998]




