# § 701.20   Suretyship and guaranty.

(a) *Scope.* This section authorizes a federal credit union to enter into a suretyship or guaranty agreement as an incidental powers activity. This section does not apply to the guaranty of public deposits or the assumption of liability for member accounts.


(b) *Definitions.* A *suretyship* binds a federal credit union with its principal to pay or perform an obligation to a third person. Under a *guaranty* agreement, a federal credit union agrees to satisfy the obligation of the principal only if the principal fails to pay or perform. The *principal* is the person primarily liable, for whose performance of his obligation the surety or guarantor has become bound.


(c) *Requirements.* The suretyship or guaranty agreement must be for the benefit of a principal that is a member and is subject to the following conditions: 


(1) The federal credit union limits its obligations under the agreement to a fixed dollar amount and a specified duration; 


(2) The federal credit union's performance under the agreement creates an authorized loan that complies with the applicable lending regulations, including the limitations on loans to one member or associated members or officials for purposes of §§ 701.21(c)(5), (d); 723.4(c); and 


(3) The federal credit union obtains a segregated deposit from the member that is sufficient in amount to cover the federal credit union's total potential liability. 


(d) *Collateral.* A segregated deposit under this section includes collateral: 


(1) In which the federal credit union has perfected its security interest (for example, if the collateral is a printed security, the federal credit union must have obtained physical control of the security, and, if the collateral is a book entry security, the federal credit union must have properly recorded its security interest); and 


(2) That has a market value, at the close of each business day, equal to 100 percent of the federal credit union's total potential liability and is composed of: 


(i) Cash; 


(ii) Obligations of the United States or its agencies; 


(iii) Obligations fully guaranteed by the United States or its agencies as to principal and interest; or 


(iv) Notes, drafts, or bills of exchange or banker's acceptances that are eligible for rediscount or purchase by a Federal Reserve Bank; or 


(3) That has a market value equal to 110 percent of the federal credit union's total potential liability and is composed of: 


(i) Real estate, the value of which is established by a signed appraisal or evaluation in accordance with part 722 of this chapter. In determining the value of the collateral, the federal credit union must factor in the value of any existing senior mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the property except those held by the principal to the suretyship or guaranty agreement; or 


(ii) Marketable securities that the federal credit union is authorized to invest in. The federal credit union must ensure that the value of the security is 110 percent of the obligation at all times during the term of the agreement.



---

[N] [69 FR 8547, Feb. 25, 2004, as amended at 84 FR 10975, Mar. 25, 2019]




