# § 605.502   Program and procedures.

(a) The Farm Credit Administration has no authority for the original classification of information for national security purposes. Only those agencies described in the Executive order may so classify information.


(b) *Derivative classification.* “Derivative classification” means the incorporating, paraphrasing, restating or generating in new form information that is already classified, and marking the newly developed material consistent with the classification markings that apply to the source information. Derivative classification includes the classification of information based on classification guidance. The duplication or reproduction of existing classified information is not derivative classification.


(c) *Mandatory declassification review.* “Mandatory declassification review” means the review for declassification of classified information in response to a request for declassification that meets the requirements under section 3.5 of the Executive order. All requests for review for declassification under the mandatory review provisions of the Executive order shall be handled by the Information Security Officer or his/her designee.


(d) *Handling of classified documents.* All documents bearing the terms “Top Secret,” “Secret,” and “Confidential” shall be delivered to the Information Security Officer or his/her designee immediately upon receipt. All potential recipients of such documents shall be advised of the names of such designees. In the event that the Information Security Officer or his/her designee is not available to receive such documents, they shall be sent to the FCA mailroom and stored in the combination safe and secured unopened until the Information Security Officer is available. Under no cirumstances shall classified materials that cannot be delivered be stored other than in the designated safe. All materials not immediately deliverable or able to be secured in the designated safe shall be returned to the sender, under appropriate cover, for redelivery to the FCA at the next earliest opportunity. 


(e) *Reproduction.* Reproduction of classified materials shall take place only in accordance with section 4.2(g) of the Executive order and any limitations imposed by the originator. Should copies be made, they shall be subject to the same controls as the original document. Records showing the number and distribution of copies shall be maintained by the Information Security Officer or his/her designee, and the log stored with the original documents. These measures shall not restrict reproduction for the purposes of Mandatory Review.


(f) *Storage.* In accordance with 32 CFR 2001.43, all classified documents shall be stored in combination safes located at the primary headquarters and/or a Field Office, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration. The combinations shall be changed as required by directives issued by ISOO. The combinations shall be known only to the Information Security Officer and his/her designees who have appropriate security clearances. 


(g) *Employee education.* All employees who have been granted a security clearance and who have occasion to handle classified materials shall be advised of handling, reproduction, and storage procedures and shall be required to review the Executive order and appropriate ISOO directives.


(h) *Agency terminology.* No official of the Farm Credit Administration shall use the terms “Top Secret”, “Secret”, or “Confidential” except in relation to materials classified for national security purposes. As a Federal regulatory agency, the Farm Credit Administration maintains certain internal documents that relate to its examination and supervision of the institutions of the Farm Credit System. Such documents are limited in use and distribution. Material that is of a sensitive nature to the Farm Credit Administration may be designated “Executive Document.”


(i) *Nondisclosure agreement.* In accordance with 32 CFR 2003.20, the Farm Credit Administration requires that any person whose position requires access to classified information must execute a nondisclosure agreement on Standard Form 312—Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement. Persons not executing such nondisclosure agreements are subject to sanctions of Executive Order 13292. It is the policy of the Farm Credit Administration that any employee authorized access to classified information holds a personal responsibility for safeguarding against unlawful disclosures, and such employees are prohibited from disclosure without consent of the FCA Information Security Officer. Any such unauthorized disclosure will be reported to the Information Security Oversight Office, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and to any other Federal agency for which the Farm Credit Administration has access to classified information, as such reportings are subject to interpretation as required by statute and Executive order. Any employee who knowingly disclosed classified information or who refuses to cooperate with an investigation may be subject to mandatory administrative sanctions, including as a minimum, denial of further access to classified information. Further sanctions could include demotion or dismissal depending on the circumstances of a particular case.


(j) *Freedom of Information request.* All inquiries regarding requests for classified information under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), including those from the news media, shall be referred to the FCA FOI Officer, Office of Congressional and Public Affairs, Farm Credit Administration, and shall be handled in accordance with provisions of that statute and applicable regulations.



---

[N] [49 FR 9859, Mar. 16, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 18200, May 14, 1987; 59 FR 21643, Apr. 26, 1994; 71 FR 54900, Sept. 20, 2006] 




