# ยง 9901.1   Authority, purpose, and scope.

(a) *Authority.* This information is furnished for the guidance of the public and in compliance with the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552. This subpart should be read in conjunction with FOIA.


(b) *Purpose.* (1) The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, Public Law 112-239, Subtitle H, 126 Stat. 1632, 1787 (2013) (amended by National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, Pub. L. 113-66, Sec. 1095, 127 Stat. 672, 878 (2013)), established the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (MCRMC). MCRMC's purpose, pursuant to its enabling statute, is to conduct a review of the military compensation and retirement systems and to make recommendations to modernize those systems to:


(i) Ensure the long-term viability of the All-Volunteer Force by sustaining the required human resources of that force during all levels of conflict and economic conditions;


(ii) Enable the quality of life for members of the Armed Forces and the other uniformed services and their families in a manner that fosters successful recruitment, retention, and careers for members of the Armed Forces and the other uniformed services; and


(iii) Modernize and achieve fiscal sustainability for the compensation and retirement systems for the Armed Forces and the other uniformed services for the 21st century.


(2) The Commission will make its recommendations only after it examines all laws, policies and practices of the Federal Government that result in any direct payment of authorized or appropriated funds to current and former members (veteran and retired) of the uniformed services, including the reserve components of those services, and the spouses, family members, children, survivors, and other persons authorized to receive such payments as a result of their connection to Service members.


(c) *Agency.* MCRMC is an independent establishment of the Federal government as defined by Sections 104 and 105 of Title 5 of the U.S. Code, and a temporary organization under section 3161 of such title. The Commission is composed of nine members, appointed by the President and Congressional leadership. Members of this Commission are deemed to be Federal employees. MCRMC maintains its headquarters in Arlington, Virginia.


(d) *Records on individuals.* MCRMC does not maintain any of its own systems of records on individuals. Pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding between the Department of Defense, Director of Administration & Management and MCRMC, the Department of Defense, Washington Headquarters Services is responsible for MCRMC personnel records management including compliance with the Privacy Act.



---

[N] [79 FR 54567, Sept. 12, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 63497, Oct. 24, 2014]




