# § 31.3302(a)-1   Credit against tax for contributions paid.

(a) *In general.* Subject to the provision of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and to the provisions of § 31.3302(c)-1, the taxpayer may credit against the tax for any taxable year the total amount of contributions paid by him into an unemployment fund maintained during such year under a State law which has been found by the Secretary of Labor to contain the provisions specified in section 3304(a); *Provided, however,* That no credit may be taken for contributions under a State law if such State has not been duly certified for the calendar year to the Secretary of the Treasury by the Secretary of Labor. The contributions may be credited against the tax whether or not they are paid with respect to employment as defined in section 3306(c). For provisions relating to additional credit against the tax, see § 31.3302(b)-1.


(b) *Limitation on the taxable year with respect to which contributions are allowable.* In order to be allowable as credit against the tax for any taxable year, the contributions must have been paid with respect to such year.


(c) *Limitation on amount of credit allowable based on time when contributions are paid*—(1) *In general.* The amount of credit allowable for contributions paid into a State unemployment fund depends in part on the time of payment of such contributions. Although contributions paid at any time may be credited against the tax (subject to the limitations referred to in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section), no refund or credit of the tax based on credit for contributions paid will be allowed unless the contributions are paid prior to the expiration of the period of limitations applicable to refund or credit of the tax. For general provisions relating to the limitation period and to refunds, credits and abatements of the tax, see respectively §§ 301.6511(a)-1, 301.6402-2 and 301.6404-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).


(2) *Amount of credit allowable when contributions are paid on or before last day for filing return.* Contributions paid into a State unemployment fund on or before the last day upon which the Federal return for the taxable year is required to be filed may be credited against the tax in an amount equal to such contributions, but not, however, to exceed the total credits, determined pursuant to § 31.3302(c)-1. For provisions relating to the time for filing the return, see § 31.6071(a)-1 in Subpart G of this part.


(3) *Amount of credit allowable when contributions are paid after last day for filing return.* Contributions paid into a State unemployment fund after the last day upon which the Federal return for the taxable year is required to be filed may be credited against the tax in an amount not to exceed 90 percent of the amount which would have been allowable as credit on account of such contributions had they been paid into a State unemployment fund on or before such last day. However, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section relating to the payment of contributions to the wrong State. For general provisions relating to refunds, credits, and abatements of the tax, see §§ 301.6402-2 and 301.6404-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).


(4) *Amount of credit allowable when contributions are paid to wrong State.* Contributions for the taxable year paid into a State unemployment fund which are required under the unemployment compensation law of that State, but which are paid with respect to remuneration on the basis of which the taxpayer had, prior to such payment, erroneously paid an amount as contributions under another unemployment compensation law, shall be deemed for purposes of the credit to have been paid at the time of the erroneous payment. If, by reason of such other law, the taxpayer was entitled to cease paying contributions for such taxable year with respect to services subject to such other law, the payment into the proper fund shall be deemed for purposes of credit to have been made on the date the Federal return for such year was actually filed by the taxpayer under § 31.6011(a)-3.



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6658, 28 FR 6632, June 27, 1963]




