# ยง 98.314   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must measure your consumption of calcined petroleum coke using plant instruments used for accounting purposes including direct measurement weighing the petroleum coke fed into your process (by belt scales or a similar device) or through the use of purchase records.


(b) You must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of monthly calcined petroleum coke consumption measurements.


(c) You must determine the carbon content of the calcined petroleum coke each month based on reports from the supplier. Alternatively, facilities can measure monthly carbon contents of the petroleum coke using ASTM D3176-89 (Reapproved 2002) Standard Practice for Ultimate Analysis of Coal and Coke (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 98.7) and ASTM D5373-08 Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 98.7).


(d) For quality assurance and quality control of the supplier data, you must conduct an annual measurement of the carbon content from a representative sample of the petroleum coke consumed using ASTM D3176-89 and ASTM D5373-08.


(e) You must determine the quantity of carbon-containing waste generated from each titanium dioxide production line on a monthly basis using plant instruments used for accounting purposes including direct measurement weighing the carbon-containing waste not used during the process (by belt scales or a similar device) or through the use of sales records.


(f) You must determine the carbon contents of the carbon-containing waste from each titanium production line on an annual basis by collecting and analyzing a representative sample of the material using ASTM D3176-89 and ASTM D5373-08.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66469, Oct. 28, 2010]




