# § 165.1338   Regulated Navigation Area; Slip 4 Early Action Area Superfund Site, Lower Duwamish Waterway, Seattle, WA.

(a) *Regulated Areas.* The following areas are regulated navigation areas: All waters within the northern portion of Slip 4 bounded by the shoreline and the southern boundary of the Early Action Area defined as the line beginning at a point on the shore at 47°32′08.47″ N, 122°19′12.00″ W; thence southeast to a point on the shoreline at 47°32′07.02″ N, 122°19′09.23″ W (Datum: NAD 1983/91).


(b) *Regulations.* (1) All vessels and persons are prohibited from grounding, anchoring, dragging, trawling, spudding, or otherwise contacting the riverbed within the designated regulated navigation area. Vessels may otherwise transit or navigate within this area in accordance with the Navigation Rules.


(2) The prohibition described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to vessels or persons engaged in activities associated with remediation efforts in the superfund sites, provided that the Captain of the Port, Puget Sound (COTP), is given advance notice of those activities by the Environmental Protection Agency.


(3) The prohibition described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to vessels or person engaged in fishing activities pursuant to fishing rights held by treaty with the United States.


(c) *Waivers.* Upon written request stating the need and proposed conditions of the waiver, and any proposed precautionary measures, the COTP may authorize a waiver from this section if the COTP determines that the activity for which the waiver is sought can take place without undue risk to the remediation efforts described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The COTP will consult with EPA in making this determination when necessary and practicable.



---

[N] [USCG-2013-0293, 79 FR 62829, Oct. 21, 2014]




