# ยง 525.3   Criteria.

(a) *General.* (1) Entry authorizations may be issued only after the National Range Commander, the Commander, KMR, or a duly authorized subordinate has determined that the presence of the person, ship, or aircraft will not, under existing or reasonably forseeable future conditions, endanger, place an undue burden upon, or otherwise jeopardize the efficiency, capability or effectiveness of any military installation located within Kwajalein Missile Range or areas contiguous thereto. Factors to be considered shall include, but not be limited to, the true purpose of the entry, the possible burdens or threats to the defense facilities which the presence of the ship, aircraft, or the individual or individuals involved impose or might reasonably be expected to impose on those islands in the Kwajalein Atoll under U.S. Army jurisdiction.


(2) Request for entry authorizations will be evaluated and adjudged as to whether the entry at the time and for the purpose stated will or will not be inimical to the purposes of U.S. national defense.


(b) *Aliens and permanent resident aliens.* (1) Entry of aliens for employment or residence (except as specified in paragraph 3-2.b.) in an area entirely within the borders of Kwajalein Missile Range is not authorized except when such entry would serve the interests of the U.S. Government, and then only for specified periods and under prescribed conditions. Entry application shall include the name and nationality of the person desiring entry.


(2) Alien and immigrant spouses and dependents of U.S. citizen sponsors or principals assigned to Kwajalein Missile Range may be granted entry authorization by the National Range Commander so long as U.S. sponsor or principal remains on duty or resides within Kwajalein Missile Range.


(c) *Excluded persons.* Excluded persons, as defined in 1-3.e., are normally prohibited from entering Kwajalein Missile Range. Excluded persons may enter Kwajalein Missile Range only when a bona fide emergency exists and the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, grants permission for them to enter or transit the Kwajalein Missile Range. While they are within the jurisdiction of the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, they will be subject to such restrictions and regulations as he may impose.


(d) *Unauthorized persons.* Persons not authorized to enter Kwajalein will not normally be allowed to debark from authorized ships or aircraft at Kwajalein Island or other islands in the Kwajalein Atoll to which the U.S. Government has lease rights, except that continuing aircraft passengers may be allowed at the discretion of the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, to debark during aircraft ground time to remain within specified portions of the terminal building designated by the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range. In emergency situations, entry of unauthorized personnel may be granted by the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range.


(e) *Entrance to other areas of the Trust Territory.* No person, unless a citizen, national, or permanent resident alien of the Marshall Islands, will be permitted to debark at Kwajalein Missile Range for the purpose of transiting to areas under the jurisdiction of the Republic of the Marshall Islands without possessing a permit issued by its Chief of Immigration.


(f) *Unauthorized marine vessels and aircraft.* No unauthorized marine vessel or aircraft shall enter Kwajalein Missile Range unless a bona fide emergency exists and the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, has granted such permission. The Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, shall use all means at his disposal to prevent unauthorized vessels and aircraft from entering Kwajalein Missile Range. Unauthorized marine vessels and aircraft will be seized for prosecution along with the crew, passengers, and cargo.


(g) *Military areas.* Entries authorized under this instruction do not restrict the authority of the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, to impose and enforce proper regulations restricting movement into or within portions of Kwajalein Missile Range reserved for military operations.


(h) *Waivers.* No one except the National Range Commander, or his duly authorized representative, has authority to waive the requirements of this regulation. Any waiver shall be in writing and signed.


(i) *Security clearances.* Organizations, including U.S. Government contractors, responsible for the assignment of personnel to KMR on either a temporary or permanent basis will comply with security clearance requirements for the assignment. A copy of the security clearance notification will be forwarded to Cdr, BMDSCOM, ATTN: BMDSC-AU.




