# ยง 8364.1   Temporary closure and restriction orders.

(a) The authorized officer may issue an order to temporarily close or restrict the use of designated public lands, including roads, trails, and waterways, to protect persons, property, public lands, or resources; avoid conflict among public land users; or ensure the privacy of Tribal activities for traditional or cultural use.


(b) Each order shall:


(1) Identify the public lands, including roads, trails, or waterways, that are closed to entry or restricted as to use;


(2) Specify the uses that are restricted;


(3) Specify the date and period of time that the closure or restriction order will become effective and the date and time that the order will terminate;


(4) Identify any persons or groups who are exempt from the closure or restriction; and


(5) Identify the reasons for the closure or restriction.


(c) When issuing closure or restriction orders pursuant to this section, the authorized officer shall provide public notice by:


(1) Posting the order in a Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Office having jurisdiction over the public lands, including roads, trails, or waterways, to which the order applies;


(2) Posting the order at places near or within the area to which the closure or restriction applies, in such manner and location as is reasonable to bring prohibitions to the attention of users;


(3) Notifying local media outlets; and


(4) Posting information on at least one BLM-controlled, publicly available online communication system.


(d) Notwithstanding any contrary provisions in part 4 of this title, the authorized officer will provide that orders issued pursuant to this section will be effective upon issuance or at a date and time established in the order. If appealed, such orders shall remain in effect pending the decision on appeal unless a stay is granted.


(e) Any person who violates a temporary closure or restriction order may be tried before a United States magistrate and fined in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 3571, imprisoned no more than 12 months under 43 U.S.C. 1733(a) and ยง 8360.0-7, or both.





---

[N] [89 FR 64397, Aug. 7, 2024]








