# § 1.41   Delegations to the Director of the Departmental Office of Civil Rights.

The Director of the Departmental Office of Civil Rights is delegated authority to conduct all stages of the formal employment discrimination complaints process (including acceptance/dismissal, investigation, and final adjudication); to provide guidance to the Operating Administrations and Secretarial officers concerning the implementation and enforcement of all civil rights laws, regulations and Executive Orders for which the Department is responsible; to otherwise perform activities to ensure compliance with external civil rights programs; and to review and evaluate the Operating Administrations' enforcement of these authorities. These authorities include:


(a) Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.* and 2000e *et seq.*

(b) Sections 501 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 791 and 794-794a.


(c) Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 29 U.S.C. 621 *et seq.*

(d) Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6101 *et seq.*

(e) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101-121213.


(f) ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-325) [42 U.S.C. 12101 Note].


(g) Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, 42 U.S.C. 2000ff *et seq.*

(h) Equal Pay Act of 1963, 29 U.S.C. 206(d).


(i) Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration Reorganization Act (Pub. L. 102-321)


(j) Chapter XIV of subtitle B, of title 29 of the CFR (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Regulations).


(k) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Pub. L. 90-284) [42 U.S.C. 3601 *et seq.*].


(l) 40 U.S.C. 476 (prohibition on sex discrimination).


(m) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681.


(n) In coordination with the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, Executive Order 12898 (“Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations”) (See also Executive Order 12948).


(o) 49 U.S.C. 306 (prohibition on discrimination in programs receiving financial assistance), 5310 (transportation for elderly persons and persons with disabilities), 5332 (nondiscrimination in mass transportation), 41705 (discrimination by air carriers against handicapped persons), 47113 (minority and disadvantaged business participation), and 47123 (nondiscrimination in airport improvement programs).


(p) 23 U.S.C. 324 and 402(b)(1)(D) (nondiscrimination in highway programs).


(q) The Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, Public Law 102-240, 105 Stat. 1919, section 1003.




