# § 984.103   Definitions.

(a) The terms *1937 Act, Fair Market Rent, Head of household, HUD, Low income family, Public housing, Public Housing Agency (PHA),* and *Secretary,* as used in this part, are defined in part 5 of this title.


(b) As used in this part:


*Baseline annual earned income* means, for purposes of determining the FSS credit under § 984.305(b), the FSS family's total annual earned income from wages and business income (if any) as of the effective date of the FSS contract. In calculating baseline annual earned income, all applicable exclusions of income must be applied, *except for* any disregarded earned income or other adjustments associated with self-sufficiency incentives that may be applicable to the determination of annual income.


*Baseline monthly rent* means, for purposes of determining the FSS credit under § 984.305(b):


(i) The FSS family's total tenant payment (TTP), as of the effective date of the FSS contract, for families paying an income-based rent as of the effective date of the FSS contract; or


(ii) The amount of the flat or ceiling rent (which includes the applicable utility allowance), and including any hardship discounts, as of the effective date of the FSS contract, for families paying a flat or ceiling rent as of the effective date of the FSS contract.


*Certification* means a written assertion based on supporting evidence, provided by the FSS family or the PHA or owner, as may be required under this part, and which:


(i) Shall be maintained by the PHA or owner in the case of the family's certification, or by HUD in the case of the PHA's or owner's certification;


(ii) Shall be made available for inspection by HUD, the PHA or owner, and the public, as appropriate; and,


(iii) Shall be deemed to be accurate for purposes of this part, unless the Secretary or the PHA or owner, as applicable, determines otherwise after inspecting the evidence and providing due notice and opportunity for comment.


*Chief executive officer (CEO)* means the elected official or the legally designated official of a unit of general local government, who has the primary responsibility for the conduct of that entity's governmental affairs.


*Contract of Participation (CoP)* means a contract, in a form with contents prescribed by HUD, entered into between an FSS family and a PHA or owner operating an FSS program that sets forth the terms and conditions governing participation in the FSS program. The CoP includes all Individual Training and Services Plans (ITSPs) entered into between the PHA or owner and all members of the family who will participate in the FSS program, and which plans are attached to the CoP as exhibits. For additional detail, see § 984.303.


*Current annual earned income* means, for purposes of determining the FSS credit under § 984.305(b), the FSS family's total annual earned income from wages and business income (if any) as of the most recent re-examination of income which occurs after the effective date of the FSS contract. In calculating current annual earned income, all applicable exclusions of income will apply, including any disregarded earned income and other adjustments associated with self-sufficiency incentives or other alternative rent structures that may be applicable to the determination of annual income.


*Current monthly rent* means, for purposes of determining the FSS credit under § 984.305(b):


(i) The FSS family's TTP as of the most recent re-examination of income, which occurs after the effective date of the FSS contract, for families paying an income-based rent as of the most recent re-examination of income; or


(ii) The amount of the flat rent (which includes the applicable utility allowance) or ceiling rent, including any hardship discounts, as of the most recent re-examination of income which occurs after the effective date of the FSS contract, for families paying a flat rent or ceiling rent as of the most recent re-examination of income.


*Earned income* means income or earnings from wages, tips, salaries, other employee compensation, and self-employment. Earned income does not include any pension or annuity, transfer payments, any cash or in-kind benefits, or funds deposited in or accrued interest on the FSS escrow account established by a PHA or owner on behalf of a FSS family.


*Effective date of Contract of Participation (CoP)* means the first day of the month following the date in which the FSS family and the PHA or owner entered into the CoP.


*Eligible families* means current residents of public housing (section 9) and current Section 8 program participants, as defined in this section, including those participating in other local self-sufficiency programs.


*Enrollment* means the date that the FSS family entered into the CoP with the PHA or owner.


*Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) Program* means the program established by a PHA within its jurisdiction or by an owner to promote self-sufficiency among participating families, including the coordination of supportive services to these families, as authorized by section 23 of the 1937 Act.


*FSS escrow account (or, escrow)* means the FSS escrow account authorized by section 23 of the 1937 Act, and as provided by § 984.305.


*FSS escrow credit* means the amount credited by the PHA or owner to the FSS family's FSS escrow account.


*FSS family* means a family that resides in public housing (section 9) or receives Section 8 assistance, as defined in this section, and that elects to participate in the FSS program, and whose designated adult member (head of FSS family), as determined in accordance with § 984.303(a), has signed the CoP.


*FSS family in good standing* means, for purposes of this part, an FSS family that is in compliance with their FSS CoP; has either satisfied or are current on any debts owed the PHA or owner; and is in compliance with the regulations in part 5 and chapters VIII and IX of this title regarding participation in the relevant rental assistance program.


*FSS related service program* means any program, publicly or privately sponsored, that offers the kinds of supportive services described in the definition of “supportive services” set forth in this section.


*FSS slots* refers to the total number of families (as determined in the Action Plan for mandatory programs in § 984.105) that the PHA will serve in its FSS program.


*FSS Program Coordinator* means the person(s) who runs the FSS program. This may include (but is not limited to) performing outreach, recruitment, and retention of FSS participants; goal-setting and case management/coaching of FSS participants; working with the community and service partners; and tracking program performance.


*FY* means Federal fiscal year (starting October 1 and ending September 30, and year designated by the calendar year in which it ends).


*Head of FSS family* means the designated adult family member of the FSS family who has signed the CoP. The head of FSS family may, but is not required to be, the head of the household for purposes of determining income eligibility and rent.


*Individual Training and Services Plan (ITSP)* means a written plan that is prepared by the PHA or owner in consultation with a participating FSS family member (the person with for and whom the ITSP is being developed), and which sets forth:


(i)(A) The final and interim goals for the participating FSS family member;


(B) The supportive services to be provided to the participating FSS family member;


(C) The activities to be completed by that family member; and,


(D) The agreed upon completion dates for the goals, and activities.


(ii) Each ITSP must be signed by the PHA or owner and the participating FSS family member and is attached to, and incorporated as part of the CoP. An ITSP must be prepared for each adult family member who elects to participate in the FSS program, including the head of FSS family who has signed the CoP.


*Multifamily assisted housing (also known as project-based rental assistance (PBRA))* means rental housing assisted by a Section 8 Housing Payments Program, pursuant to 24 CFR parts 880, 881, 883, 884, and 886.


*Owner* means the owner of multifamily assisted housing.


*Program Coordinating Committee (PCC)* means the committee described in § 984.202.


*Section 8* means assistance provided under section 8 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f). Specifically, multifamily assisted housing, as defined in this section; tenant-based and project-based rental assistance under section 8(o) of the 1937 Act; the HCV homeownership option under section 8(y) of the 1937 Act; Family Unification Program (FUP) assistance under section 8(x) of the 1937 Act; and the Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation (Mod Rehab) for low-income families and Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy (Mod Rehab SRO) for homeless individuals under 24 CFR part 882.


*Self-sufficiency* means that an FSS family is no longer receiving Section 8, public housing assistance, or any Federal, State, or local rent, homeownership subsidies, or welfare assistance. Achievement of self-sufficiency, although an FSS program objective, is not a condition for receipt of the FSS escrow account funds.


*Supportive services* means those appropriate services that a PHA or owner will coordinate on behalf of an FSS family under a CoP, which may include, but are not limited to:


(i) *Child care.* Child care (on an as-needed or ongoing basis) of a type that provides sufficient hours of operation and serves an appropriate range of ages;


(ii) *Transportation.* Transportation necessary to enable a participating FSS family member to receive available services, or to commute to their place(s) of employment;


(iii) *Education.* Remedial education; education for completion of high school or attainment of a high school equivalency certificate; education in pursuit of a post-secondary degree or certificate;


(iv) *Employment supports.* Job training, preparation, and counseling; job development and placement; and follow-up assistance after job placement and completion of the CoP;


(v) *Personal welfare.* Substance/alcohol abuse treatment and counseling, and health, dental, mental health and health insurance services;


(vi) *Household management.* Training in household management;


(vii) *Homeownership and housing counseling.* Homeownership education and assistance and housing counseling;


(viii) *Financial empowerment.* Training in financial literacy, such as financial coaching, training in financial management, asset building, and money management, including engaging in mainstream banking, reviewing and improving credit scores, etc.; and


(ix) *Other services.* Any other services and resources, including case management, optional services, and specialized services for individuals with disabilities, that are determined to be appropriate in assisting FSS families to achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency. Reasonable accommodations and modifications must be made for individuals with disabilities consistent with applicable Federal civil rights and nondiscrimination laws.


*Unit size or size of unit* refers to the number of bedrooms in a dwelling unit.


*Very low-income family* is defined as set out in § 813.102 of this title.


*Welfare assistance* means (for purposes of the FSS program only) income assistance from Federal (*i.e.,* Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or subsequent program), State, or local welfare programs and includes only cash maintenance payments designed to meet a family's ongoing basic needs. Welfare assistance does not include:


(i) Nonrecurrent, short-term benefits that:


(A) Are designed to deal with a specific crisis or episode of need;


(B) Are not intended to meet recurrent or ongoing needs; and,


(C) Will not extend beyond four months;


(ii) Work subsidies (*i.e.,* payments to employers or third parties to help cover the costs of employee wages, benefits, supervision, and training);


(iii) Supportive services such as child care and transportation provided to families who are employed;


(iv) Refundable earned income tax credits;


(v) Contributions to, and distributions from, Individual Development Accounts under TANF;


(vi) Services such as counseling, case management, peer support, child care information and referral, financial empowerment, transitional services, job retention, job advancement, and other employment-related services that do not provide basic income support;


(vii) Amounts solely directed to meeting housing expenses;


(viii) Amounts for health care;


(ix) Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and emergency rental and utilities assistance;


(x) Supplemental Security Income, Social Security Disability Income, or Social Security; and


(xi) Child-only or non-needy TANF grants made to or on behalf of a dependent child solely on the basis of the child's need and not on the need of the child's current non-parental caretaker.






