# ยง 284.7   Firm transportation service.

(a) *Firm transportation availability.* (1) An interstate pipeline that provides transportation service under subpart B or G or this part must offer such transportation service on a firm basis and separately from any sales service.


(2) An intrastate pipeline that provides transportation service under Subpart C may offer such transportation service on a firm basis.


(3) *Service on a firm basis* means that the service is not subject to a prior claim by another customer or another class of service and receives the same priority as any other class of firm service.


(4) An interstate pipeline that provided a firm sales service on May 18, 1992, and that offers transportation service on a firm basis under subpart B or G of this part, must offer a firm transportation service under which firm shippers may receive delivery up to their firm entitlements on a daily basis without penalty.


(b) *Non-discriminatory access.* (1) An interstate pipeline or intrastate pipeline that offers transportation service on a firm basis under subpart B, C or G must provide such service without undue discrimination, or preference, including undue discrimination or preference in the quality of service provided, the duration of service, the categories, prices, or volumes of natural gas to be transported, customer classification, or undue discrimination or preference of any kind.


(2) An interstate pipeline that offers transportation service on a firm basis under subpart B or G of this part must provide each service on a basis that is equal in quality for all gas supplies transported under that service, whether purchased from the pipeline or another seller. 


(3) An interstate pipeline that offers transportation service on a firm basis under subpart B or G of this part may not include in its tariff any provision that inhibits the development of market centers. 


(c) *Reasonable operational conditions.* Consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, a pipeline may impose reasonable operational conditions on any service provided under this part. Such conditions must be filed by the pipeline as part of its transportation tariff.


(d) *Segmentation.* An interstate pipeline that offers transportation service under subpart B or G of this part must permit a shipper to make use of the firm capacity for which it has contracted by segmenting that capacity into separate parts for its own use or for the purpose of releasing that capacity to replacement shippers to the extent such segmentation is operationally feasible.


(e) *Reservation fee.* Where the customer purchases firm service, a pipeline may impose a reservation fee or charge on a shipper as a condition for providing such service. Except for pipelines subject to subpart C of this part, if a reservation fee is charged, it must recover all fixed costs attributable to the firm transportation service, unless the Commission permits the pipeline to recover some of the fixed costs in the volumetric portion of a two-part rate. A reservation fee may not recover any variable costs or fixed costs not attributable to the firm transportation service. Except as provided in this paragraph, the pipeline may not include in a rate for any transportation provided under subpart B, C or G of this part any minimum bill or minimum take provision, or any other provision that has the effect of guaranteeing revenue.


(f) *Limitation.* A person providing service under Subpart B, C or G of this part is not required to provide any requested transportation service for which capacity is not available or that would require the construction or acquisition of any new facilities.



---

[N] [Order 436, 50 FR 42493, Oct. 18, 1985]


