# § 63.1567   What are my requirements for inorganic HAP emissions from catalytic reforming units?

(a) *What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?* You must: 


(1) Meet each emission limitation in Table 22 to this subpart that applies to you. If you operate a catalytic reforming unit in which different reactors in the catalytic reforming unit are regenerated in separate regeneration systems, then these emission limitations apply to each separate regeneration system. These emission limitations apply to emissions from catalytic reforming unit process vents associated with the coke burn-off and catalyst rejuvenation operations during coke burn-off and catalyst regeneration. You can choose from the two options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section:


(i) You can elect to meet a percent reduction standard for hydrogen chloride (HCl) emissions (Option 1); or 


(ii) You can elect to meet an HCl concentration limit (Option 2). 


(2) Meet each site-specific operating limit in Table 23 of this subpart that applies to you. These operating limits apply during coke burn-off and catalyst rejuvenation. 


(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan. 


(b) *How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standard?* You must: 


(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system(s) according to the requirements in § 63.1572 and Table 24 of this subpart. 


(2) Conduct each performance test for a catalytic reforming unit according to the requirements in § 63.1571 and the conditions specified in Table 25 of this subpart. 


(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 23 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 25 of this subpart. 


(4) Use the equations in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission limitations.


(i) Correct the measured HCl concentration for oxygen (O_2_) content in the gas stream using Equation 1 of this section as follows:


(ii) If you elect the percent reduction standard, calculate the emission rate of HCl using Equation 2 of this section; then calculate the mass emission reduction from the mass emission rates using Equation 3 of this section as follows:


(iii) If you are required to use a colormetric tube sampling system to demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl concentration operating limit, calculate the HCl operating limit using Equation 4 of this section as follows:


(iv) If you are required to use a colormetric tube sampling system to demonstrate continuous compliance with the percent reduction operating limit, calculate the HCl operating limit using Equation 5 of this section as follows:


(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 26 of this subpart. 


(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status. 


(7) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.1574. 


(c) *How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standard?* You must: 


(1) Demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation in Tables 22 and 23 of this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Tables 27 and 28 of this subpart. 


(2) Demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by maintaining records to document conformance with the procedures in your operation, maintenance and monitoring plan. 



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 6939, Feb. 9, 2005]




