# § 35.24   Tax normalization for public utilities.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, this section applies, with respect to rate schedules filed under §§ 35.12 and 35.13 of this part, to the ratemaking treatment of the tax effects of all transactions for which there are timing differences.


(2) This section does not apply to the following timing differences:


(i) Differences that result from the use of accelerated depreciation;


(ii) Differences that result from the use of Class Life Asset Depreciation Range (ADR) provisions of the Internal Revenue Code;


(iii) Differences that result from the use of accelerated amortization provisions on certified defense and pollution control facilities;


(iv) Differences that arise from recognition of extraordinary property losses as a current expense for tax purposes but as a deferred and amortized expense for book purposes;


(v) Differences that arise from recognition of research, development, and demonstration expenditures as a current expense for tax purposes but as a deferred and amortized expense for book purposes;


(vi) Differences that result from different tax and book reporting of deferred gains or losses from disposition of utility plant;


(vii) Differences that result from the use of the Asset Guideline Class “Repair Allowance” provision of the Internal Revenue Code;


(viii) Differences that result from recognition of purchased gas costs as a current expense for tax purposes but as a deferred expense for book purposes.


(b) *General rules*—(1) *Tax normalization required.* (i) A public utility must compute the income tax component of its cost of service by using tax normalization for all transactions to which this section applies.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, application of tax normalization by a public utility under this section to compute the income tax component will not be subject to case-by-case adjudication.


(2) *Reduction of, and addition to, rate base.* (i) The rate base of a public utility using tax normalization under this section must be reduced by the balances that are properly recordable in Account 281, “Accumulated deferred income taxes-accelerated amortization property;” Account 282, “Accumulated deferred income taxes—other property;” and Account 283, “Accumulated deferred income taxes—other.” Balances that are properly recordable in Account 190, “Accumulated deferred income taxes,” must be treated as an addition to rate base. 


(ii) Such rate base reductions or additions must be limited to deferred taxes related to rate base, construction or other jurisdictional activities.


(iii) If a public utility uses an approved purchased gas adjustment clause or a research, development and demonstration tracking clause, the rate base reductions or additions required under this subparagraph must apply only to the extent that the balances in Account 190 and Accounts 281 through 283 are not used, for purposes of calculating carrying charges, as an offset to balances properly recordable in Account 188, “Research development and demonstration expenditures,” or Account 191, “Unrecovered purchased gas costs.”


(c) *Special rules.* (1) This paragraph applies:


(i) If the public utility has not provided deferred taxes in the same amount that would have accrued had tax normalization been applied for the tax effects of timing difference transactions originating at any time prior to the test period; or


(ii) If, as a result of changes in tax rates, the accumulated provision for deferred taxes becomes deficient in or in excess of amounts necessary to meet future tax liabilities as determined by application of the current tax rate to all timing difference transactions originating in the test period and prior to the test period.


(2) The public utility must compute the income tax component in its cost of service by making provision for any excess or deficiency in deferred taxes described in subparagraphs (1)(i) or (1)(ii) of this paragraph.


(3) The public utility must apply a Commission-approved ratemaking method made specifically applicable to the public utility for determining the cost of service provision described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. If no Commission-approved ratemaking method has been made specifically applicable to the public utility, then the public utility must use some ratemaking method for making such provision, and the appropriateness of this method will be subject to case-by-case determination.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the term:


(1) *Tax normalization* means computing the income tax component as if the amounts of timing difference transactions recognized in each period for ratemaking purposes were also recognized in the same amount in each such period for income tax purposes.


(2) *Timing differences* means differences between amounts of expenses or revenues recognized for income tax purposes and amounts of expenses or revenues recognized for ratemaking purposes, which differences arise in one time period and reverse in one or more other time periods so that the total amounts of expenses or revenues recognized for income tax purposes and for ratemaking purposes are equal.


(3) *Commission-approved ratemaking method* means a ratemaking method approved by the Commission in a final decision including approval of a settlement agreement containing a ratemaking method only if such settlement agreement applies that method beyond the effective term of the settlement agreement.


(4) *Income tax purposes* means for the purpose of computing income tax under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code or the income tax provisions of the laws of a State or political subdivision of a State (including franchise taxes).


(5) *Income tax component* means that part of the cost of service that covers income tax expenses allowable by the Commission.


(6) *Ratemaking purposes* means for the purpose of fixing, modifying, approving, disapproving or rejecting rates under the Federal Power Act or the Natural Gas Act.


(7) *Tax effect* means the tax reduction or addition associated with a specific expense or revenue transaction.


(8) *Transaction* means an activity or event that gives rise to an accounting entry that is used in determining revenues or expenses.



---

[N] [46 FR 26636, May 14, 1981. Redesignated and amended by Order 144-A, 47 FR 8342, Feb. 26, 1982; Redesignated by Order 545, 57 FR 53990, Nov. 16, 1992] 




