# ยง 391.64   Grandfathering for certain drivers who participated in a vision waiver study program.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) Until March 22, 2023, the provisions of ยง 391.41(b)(10) do not apply to a driver who was a participant in good standing on March 31, 1996, in a waiver study program concerning the operation of commercial motor vehicles by drivers with visual impairment in one eye; *provided:*

(1) The driver is physically examined every year, including an examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist attesting to the fact that the driver:


(i) Is otherwise qualified under ยง 391.41; and


(ii) Continues to measure at least 20/40 (Snellen) in the better eye.


(2) The driver provides a copy of the ophthalmologist or optometrist report to the medical examiner at the time of the annual medical examination.


(3) The driver provides a copy of the annual medical certification to the employer for retention in the driver's qualification file and retains a copy of the certification on his/her person while driving for presentation to a duly authorized federal, state or local enforcement official.


(4) On March 22, 2023, the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section are no longer in effect, and any medical examiner's certificate issued under ยง 391.43 on the basis that the driver is qualified by operation of the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, related to drivers with visual impairment in one eye, is void.



---

[N] [61 FR 13346, Mar. 26, 1996, as amended at 83 FR 47521, Sept. 19, 2018; 87 FR 3419, Jan. 21, 2022; 87 FR 7756, Feb. 10, 2022]




