# ยง 1980.442   Feasibility studies.

A feasibility study by a recognized independent consultant will be required for all loans, except as provided in this paragraph. The cost of the study will be borne by the borrower and may be paid from funds included in the loan. The loan approval official may make an exception to the requirement of a feasibility study for loans to existing businesses when the financial history of the business, the current financial condition of the business, and guarantees or other collateral offered for the loan are sufficient to protect the interest of the lenders and Rural Development. Rural Development will thoroughly document the justification for the exception to the feasibility study for such businesses. An acceptable feasibility study should include but not be limited to:


(a) *Economic feasibility.* Information related to the project site, availability of trained or trainable labor; utilities; rail, air and road service to the site; and the overall economic impact of the project.


(b) *Market feasibility.* Information on the sales organization and management, nature and extent of market area, marketing plans for sale of projected output, extent of competition and commitments from customers or brokers.


(c) *Technical feasibility.* Technical feasibility reports shall be prepared by individuals who have previous experience in the design and analysis of similar facilities and/or processes as are proposed in the application. The technical feasibility reports shall address the suitability of the selected site for the intended use, including an environmental impact analysis. The report shall be based upon verifiable data and contain sufficient information and analysis so that a determination may be made on the technical feasibility of achieving the levels of income and/or production that are projected in the financial statements. The report shall also identify any constraints or limitations in these financial projections and any other facility or design related factors which might affect the success of the enterprise. The report shall also identify and estimate project operating and development costs and specify the level of accuracy of these estimates and the assumptions on which these estimates have been based. For the purpose of the technical feasibility reports, the project engineer or architect may be considered an independent party provided the principals of the firm or any individual of the firm who participates in the technical feasibility report does not have a financial interest in the project, and provided further that no other individual or firm with the expertise necessary to make such a determination is reasonably available to perform the function.


(d) *Financial feasibility.* An opinion on the reliability of the financial projections and the ability of the business to achieve the projected income and cash flow. An assessment of the cost accounting system, the availability of short-term credit for seasonal business and the adequacy of raw material and supplies.


(e) *Management feasibility.* Evidence that continuity and adequacy of management has been evaluated and documented as being satisfactory.



---

[N] [52 FR 6501, Mar. 4, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 40039, July 27, 1993]




