# § 422.68   Effective dates of coverage and change of coverage.

(a) *Initial coverage election period.* An election made during an initial coverage election period as described in § 422.62(a)(1) is effective as follows:


(1) If made prior to the month of entitlement to both Part A and Part B, it is effective as of the first day of the month of entitlement to both Part A and Part B.


(2) If made during or after the month of entitlement to both Part A and Part B, it is effective the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the election is made.


(b) *Annual coordinated election periods.* For an election or change of election made during the annual coordinated election period as described in § 422.62(a)(2)(i), coverage is effective as of the first day of the following calendar year except that for the annual coordinated election period described in § 422.62(a)(2)(ii), elections made after December 31, 2005 through May 15, 2006 are effective as of the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which the election is made.


(c) *Open enrollment periods.* For an election, or change in election, made during an open enrollment period, as described in § 422.62(a)(3) through (5), coverage is effective as of the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which the election is made.


(d) *Special election periods.* For an election or change of election made during a special election period as described in § 422.62(b), the coverage or change in coverage is effective the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the election is made, unless otherwise noted.


(e) *Special election period for individual age 65.* For an election of coverage under original Medicare made during a special election period for an individual age 65 as described in § 422.62(c), coverage is effective as of the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which the election is made.


(f) *Annual 45-day period for disenrollment from MA plans to Original Medicare.* Through 2018, an election made from January 1 through February 14 to disenroll from an MA plan to Original Medicare, as described in § 422.62(a)(5), is effective the first day of the first month following the month in which the election is made.


(g) *Beneficiary choice of effective date.* If a beneficiary is eligible for more than one election period, resulting in more than one possible effective date, the MA organization must allow the beneficiary to choose the election period that results in the individual's desired effective date.


(1) To determine the beneficiary's choice of election period and effective date, the MA organization must attempt to contact the beneficiary and must document its attempts.


(2) If the MA organization is unable to obtain the beneficiary's desired enrollment effective date, the MA organization must assign an election period using the following ranking of election periods:


(i) ICEP/Part D IEP.


(ii) MA-OEP.


(iii) SEP.


(iv) AEP.


(v) OEPI.


(3) If the MA organization is unable to obtain the beneficiary's desired disenrollment effective date, the MA organization must assign an election period that results in the earliest disenrollment.



---

[N] [63 FR 35071, June 26, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 40317, June 29, 2000; 67 FR 13288, Mar. 22, 2002; 70 FR 4718, Jan. 28, 2005; 76 FR 21562, Apr. 15, 2011; 83 FR 16724, Apr. 16, 2018; 85 FR 33903, June 2, 2020; 89 FR 30815, Apr. 23, 2024]




