# § 412.4   Discharges and transfers.

(a) *Discharges.* Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a hospital inpatient is considered discharged from a hospital paid under the prospective payment system when—


(1) The patient is formally released from the hospital; or


(2) The patient dies in the hospital.


(b) *Acute care transfers.* A discharge of a hospital inpatient is considered to be a transfer for purposes of payment under this part if the patient is readmitted the same day (unless the readmission is unrelated to the initial discharge) to another hospital that is— 


(1) Paid under the prospective payment system described in subparts A through M of this part;


(2) Excluded from being paid under the prospective payment system described in subparts A through M of this part because of participation in an approved statewide cost control program as described in subpart C of part 403 of this chapter;


(3) An acute care hospital that would otherwise be eligible to be paid under the IPPS, but does not have an agreement to participate in the Medicare program; or


(4) A critical access hospital.


(c) *Postacute care transfers.* A discharge of a hospital inpatient is considered to be a transfer for purposes of this part when the patient's discharge is assigned, as described in § 412.60(c), to one of the qualifying diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) listed in paragraph (d) of this section and the discharge is made under any of the following circumstances: 


(1) To a hospital or distinct part hospital unit excluded from the prospective payment system described in subparts A through M of this part under subpart B of this part. 


(2) To a skilled nursing facility. 


(3) To home under a written plan of care for the provision of home health services from a home health agency and those services begin within 3 days after the date of discharge. 


(4) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2018, to hospice care provided by a hospice program.


(d) *Qualifying DRGs.* (1) For a fiscal year prior to FY 2006, for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, and subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the qualifying DRGs must meet the following criteria for both of the 2 most recent years for which data are available:


(i) The DRG must have a geometric mean length of stay of at least 3 days.


(ii) The DRG must have at least 14,000 cases identified as postacute care transfer cases.


(iii) The DRG must have at least 10 percent of the postacute care transfers occurring before the geometric mean length of stay for the DRG.


(iv) If the DRG is one of a paired DRG based on the presence or absence of a comorbidity or complication, one of the DRGs meets the criteria specified under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iii) of this section.


(v) To initially qualify, the DRG must meet the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section and must have a decline in the geometric mean length of stay for the DRG during the most recent 5 years of at least 7 percent. Once a DRG initially qualifies, the DRG is subject to the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section for each subsequent fiscal year. 


(2) For purposes of paragraph (c), a discharge is also considered to be a transfer if it meets the following conditions:


(i) The discharge is assigned to a DRG that contains only cases that were assigned to a DRG that qualified under this paragraph within the previous 2 years; and


(ii) The latter DRG was split or otherwise modified within the previous 2 fiscal years.


(3) For fiscal years beginning with FY 2006, for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section—


(i) The qualifying DRGs must meet the following criteria using data from the March 2005 update of the FY 2004 MedPAR file and Version 23.0 of the DRG Definitions Manual (FY 2006):


(A) The DRG has at least 2,050 total postacute care transfer cases;


(B) At least 5.5 percent of the cases in the DRG are discharged to postacute care prior to the geometric mean length of stay for the DRG;


(C) The DRG must have a geometric mean length of stay greater than 3 days;


(D) The DRG is paired with a DRG based on the presence or absence of a comorbidity or complication or major cardiovascular condition that, it meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.


(ii) If a DRG did not exist in Version 23.0 of the DRG Definitions Manual or a DRG included in Version 23.0 of the DRG Definitions Manual is revised, the DRG will be a qualifying DRG if it meets the following criteria based on the version of the DRG Definitions Manual in use when the new or revised DRG first becomes effective, using the most recent complete year of MedPAR data:


(A) The total number of discharges to postacute care in the DRG must equal or exceed the 55th percentile for all DRGs;


(B) The proportion of short-stay discharges to postacute care to total discharges in the DRG exceeds the 55th percentile for all DRGs;


(C) The DRG is paired with a DRG based on the presence or absence of a comorbidity or a complication or major cardiovascular condition that meets the criteria specified under paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; and


(D) In the case of MS-DRGs that share the same base MS-DRG, if one MS-DRG meets the criteria specified under paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, every MS-DRG that shares the same base MS-DRG is a qualifying DRG. 


(e) *Payment for discharges.* The hospital discharging an inpatient (under paragraph (a) of this section) is paid in full, in accordance with § 412.2(b).


(f) *Payment for transfers*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) or (f)(3) of this section, a hospital that transfers an inpatient under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, is paid a graduated per diem rate for each day of the patient's stay in that hospital, not to exceed the amount that would have been paid under subparts D and M of this part if the patient had been discharged to another setting. The per diem rate is determined by dividing the appropriate prospective payment rate (as determined under subparts D and M of this part) by the geometric mean length of stay for the specific DRG to which the case is assigned. Payment is graduated by paying twice the per diem amount for the first day of the stay, and the per diem amount for each subsequent day, up to the full DRG payment.


(2) *Special rule for DRGs 209, 210, and 211 for fiscal years prior to FY 2006.* For fiscal years prior to FY 2006, a hospital that transfers an inpatient under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section and the transfer is assigned to DRGs 209, 210, or 211 is paid as follows: 


(i) 50 percent of the appropriate prospective payment rate (as determined under subparts D and M of this part) for the first day of the stay; and


(ii) 50 percent of the amount calculated under paragraph (f)(1) of this section for each day of the stay, up to the full DRG payment.


(3) *Transfer assigned to DRG for newborns that die or are transferred to another hospital.* If a transfer is classified into CMS DRG 385 (Neonates, Died or Transferred) prior to October 1, 2007, or into MS-DRG 789 (Neonates, Died or Transferred to Another Acute Care Facility) on or after October 1, 2007, the transferring hospital is paid in accordance with § 412.2(b). 


(4) *Outliers.* Effective with discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1984, a transferring hospital may qualify for an additional payment for extraordinarily high-cost cases that meet the criteria for cost outliers as described in subpart F of this part.


(5) *Special rule for DRGs meeting specific criteria.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2005, and prior to October 1, 2007, a hospital that transfers an inpatient under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section is paid using the provisions of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section if the transfer case is assigned to one of the DRGs meeting the following criteria:


(i) The DRG meets the criteria specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (d)(3)(ii) of this section. 


(ii) The average charges of the 1-day discharge cases in the DRG must be at least 50 percent of the average charges for all cases in the DRG; and


(iii) The geometric mean length of stay for the DRG is greater than 4 days; and


(iv) If a DRG is paired with a DRG based on the presence or absence of a comorbidity or complication or a major cardiovascular complication that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (f)(5)(iii) of this section, that DRG will also be paid under the provisions of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.


(6) *Special rule for DRGs meeting specific criteria.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2007, a hospital that transfers an inpatient under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section is paid using the provisions of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section if the transfer case is assigned to one of the DRGs meeting the following criteria:


(i) The DRG meets the criteria specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (d)(3)(ii) of this section;


(ii) The average charges of the 1-day discharge cases in the DRG must be at least 50 percent of the average charges for all cases in the DRG; and


(iii) The geometric mean length of stay for the DRG is greater than 4 days.


(iv) If a DRG is part of an MS-DRG group that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (f)(6)(iii) of this section, that DRG will also be paid under the provisions of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 41003, July 31, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 47106, Aug. 1, 2000; 67 FR 50111, Aug. 1, 2002; 68 FR 45469, Aug. 1, 2003; 69 FR 49240, Aug. 11, 2004; 70 FR 47484, Aug. 12, 2005; 72 FR 47410, Aug. 22, 2007; 75 FR 50413, Aug. 16, 2010; 83 FR 41700, Aug. 17, 2018]




