# § 257.5   Disposal standards for owners/operators of non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal units that receive Very Small Quantity Generator (VSQG) waste.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) The requirements in this section apply to owners/operators of any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that receives VSQG hazardous waste, as defined in 40 CFR 260.10. Non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal units that meet the requirements of this section may receive VSQG wastes. Any owner/operator of a non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that receives VSQG hazardous waste continues to be subject to the requirements in §§ 257.3-2, 257.3-3, 257.3-5, 257.3-6, 257.3-7, and 257.3-8(a), (b), and (d).


(2) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that is receiving VSQG hazardous waste as of January 1, 1998, must be in compliance with the requirements in §§ 257.7 through 257.13 and § 257.30 by January 1, 1998, and the requirements in §§ 257.21 through 257.28 by July 1, 1998.


(3) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that does not meet the requirements in this section may not receive VSQG wastes.


(4) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that is not receiving VSQG Hazardous waste as of January 1, 1998, continues to be subject to the requirements in §§ 257.1 through 257.4.


(5) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that first receives VSQG hazardous waste after January 1, 1998, must be in compliance with §§ 257.7 through 257.30 prior to the receipt of VSQG hazardous waste.


(b) *Definitions.*

*Active life* means the period of operation beginning with the initial receipt of solid waste and ending at the final receipt of solid waste.


*Existing unit* means any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that is receiving VSQG hazardous waste as of January 1, 1998.


*Facility* means all contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances, and improvements on the land used for the disposal of non-municipal non-hazardous waste. 


*Lateral expansion* means a horizontal expansion of the waste boundaries of an existing non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit. 


*New unit* means any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that has not received VSQG hazardous waste prior to January 1, 1998.


*State* means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State Director* means the chief administrative officer of the lead state agency responsible for implementing the state permit program for 40 CFR part 257, subpart B and 40 CFR part 258 regulated facilities.


*Uppermost aquifer* means the geologic formation nearest the natural ground surface that is an aquifer, as well as, lower aquifers that are hydraulically interconnected with this aquifer within the facility's property boundary. 


*Waste management unit boundary* means a vertical surface located at the hydraulically downgradient limit of the unit. This vertical surface extends down into the uppermost aquifer. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34269, July 1, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 57044, Oct. 23, 1998; 81 FR 85804, Nov. 28, 2016]




