# ยง 37.7   Communications.

Except where otherwise specified or covered under the regional licensing program as provided in ยง 30.6(b) of this chapter, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part may be sent as follows:


(a) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk; Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation; or Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, as appropriate, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001;


(b) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852;


(c) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;* by email to *MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;* or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.



---

[N] [78 FR 17007, Mar. 19, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75740, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 58722, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 65644, Nov. 29, 2019]




