# § 75.1504   Mine emergency evacuation training and drills.

Each operator of an underground coal mine shall conduct mine emergency evacuation training and drills and require all miners to participate.


(a) *Schedule of training and drills.* Each miner shall participate in a mine emergency evacuation training and drill once each quarter. Quarters shall be based on a calendar year (Jan-Mar, Apr-Jun, Jul-Sep, Oct-Dec). In addition—


(1) A newly hired miner, who has not participated in a mine emergency evacuation training and drill at the mine within the previous 3 months, shall participate in the next applicable mine emergency evacuation training and drill.


(2) Prior to assuming duties on a section or outby work location, a foreman shall travel both escapeways in their entirety.


(b) *Content of quarterly training and drill.* Each quarterly evacuation training and drill shall include the following:


(1) Hands-on training on all types of self-rescue devices used at the mine, which includes—


(i) Instruction and demonstration in the use, care, and maintenance of self-rescue devices;


(ii) The complete donning of the SCSR by assuming a donning position, opening the device, activating the device, inserting the mouthpiece, and putting on the nose clip; and


(iii) Transferring between all applicable self-rescue devices.


(2) Training that emphasizes the importance of—


(i) Recognizing when the SCSR is not functioning properly and demonstrating how to initiate and reinitiate the starting sequence;


(ii) Not removing the mouthpiece, even to communicate, until the miner reaches fresh air; and


(iii) Proper use of the SCSR by controlling breathing and physical exertion.


(3) A realistic escapeway drill that is initiated and conducted with a different approved scenario each quarter and during which each miner—


(i) Travels the primary or alternate escapeway in its entirety, alternating escapeways each quarter;


(ii) Physically locates and practices using the continuous directional lifelines or equivalent devices and tethers, and physically locates the stored SCSRs and refuge alternatives; 


(iii) Traverses undercasts or overcasts and doors;


(iv) Switches escapeways, as applicable; and


(v) Negotiates any other unique escapeway conditions.


(4) A review of the mine and escapeway maps, the firefighting plan, and the mine emergency evacuation plan in effect at the mine, which shall include:


(i) Informing miners of the locations of fire doors, check curtains, changes in the routes of travel, and plans for diverting smoke from escapeways.


(ii) Locating escapeways, exits, routes of travel to the surface, abandoned areas, and refuge alternatives.


(5) Operation of the fire suppression equipment available in the mine and the location and use of firefighting equipment and materials.


(6) Reviewing the procedures for deploying refuge alternatives and components.


(7) For miners who will be constructing the 15 psi stoppings prior to an event, reviewing the procedures for constructing them.


(8) Reviewing the procedures for use of the refuge alternatives and components.


(9) Task training in proper transportation of the refuge alternatives and components.


(c) *Annual expectations training.* Over the course of each year, each miner shall participate in expectations training that includes the following:


(1) Donning and transferring SCSRs in smoke, simulated smoke, or an equivalent environment.


(2) Breathing through a realistic SCSR training unit that provides the sensation of SCSR airflow resistance and heat.


(3) Deployment and use of refuge alternatives similar to those in use at the mine, including—


(i) Deployment and operation of component systems; and


(ii) Instruction on when to use refuge alternatives during a mine emergency, emphasizing that it is the last resort when escape is impossible.


(4) A miner shall participate in expectations training within one quarter of being employed at the mine.


(d) *Certification of training and drills.* At the completion of each training or drill required in this section, the operator shall certify by signature and date that the training or drill was held in accordance with the requirements of this section.


(1) This certification shall include the names of the miners participating in the training or drill. For each miner, this certification shall list the content of the training or drill component completed, including the escapeway traveled and scenario used, as required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(2) Certifications shall be kept at the mine for one year.


(3) Upon request, the certifications shall be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and the representative of the miners.


(4) Upon request, a copy of the certification that shows his or her own training shall be provided to the participating miner. 



---

[N] [71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 80698, Dec. 31, 2008] 




