# § 407.72   Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available.

Except as provided in §§ 125.30 through 125.32, any existing point source subject to this subpart shall achieve the following effluent limitations representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available (BPT):


(a) The following limitations establish the quantity of BOD*5* controlled by this section, which may be discharged by a “medium” or “large” existing point source subject to the provisions of this subpart after application of the best practicable control technology currently available. Any vegetable processing plant which continuously or intermittently discharges process waste water during the processing season shall meet the annual average, maximum thirty day average, and maximum day BOD*5* limitations. Vegetable processing plants employing long term waste stabilization, where all or a portion of the process waste water discharge is stored for the entire processing season and released at a controlled rate with State approval, shall meet only the annual average BOD*5* limitations. The effluent limitations do not apply to single-commodity 100 percent canned corn processing plants of all sizes, and multi-commodity 100 percent frozen vegetable processing plants with total annual raw material production less than 7,264 kkg (8,000 tons) per year.


(b) The following limitations establish the quantity of TSS controlled by the section, which may be discharged by a “medium” or “large” existing point source subject to the provisions of this subpart after application of the best practicable control technology currently available. Any vegetable processing plant which continuously or intermittently discharges process waste water during the processing season shall meet the annual average, maximum thirty day average, and maximum day TSS limitations. Vegetable processing plants employing long term waste stabilization, where all or a portion of the process waste water discharge is stored for the entire processing season and released at a controlled rate with state approval, shall meet only the annual average TSS limitations. The effluent limitations do not apply to single-commodity 100 percent canned corn processing plants of all sizes, and multi-commodity 100 percent frozen vegetable processing plants with total annual raw material production less than 7,264 kkg (8,000 tons) per year.


(c) The following limitations establish the quality of pH controlled by this section, which may be discharged by a “medium” or “large” existing point source subject to the provisions of this subpart after application of the best practicable control technology currently available. The effluent limitations do not apply to single-commodity 100 percent canned corn processing plants of all sizes, and multi-commodity 100 percent frozen vegetable processing plants with total annual raw material production less than 7,264 kkg (8,000 tons) per year.



---

[N] [41 FR 16281, Apr. 16, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 33939, June 29, 1995]




