# § 184.1434   Magnesium phosphate.

(a) Magnesium phosphate includes both magnesium phosphate, dibasic, and magnesium phosphate, tribasic. Magnesium phosphate, dibasic (MgHPO_4_·3H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 7782-0975-094) occurs naturally as the white, crystalline mineral newberyite. It is prepared commercially as a precipitate formed by treating a solution of magnesium sulfate with disodium phosphate under controlled conditions. Magnesium phosphate, tribasic (Mg_3_(PO_4_)2·xH_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 7757-87-1) may contain 4, 5, or 8 molecules of water of hydration. It is produced as a precipitate from a solution of magnesite with phosphoric acid.


(b) Magnesium phosphate, dibasic, meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 179, which is incorporated by reference. Magnesium phosphate, tribasic, meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 180, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter and a pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice. The ingredient also may be used in infant formula in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the Act.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [50 FR 13560, Apr. 5, 1985, as amended at 69 FR 24512, May 4, 2004]




