# § 334.390   Atlantic Ocean south of entrance to Chesapeake Bay; firing range.

(a) *The danger zone.* (1) A section extending seaward for a distance of 12,000 yards between two radial lines bearing 030° True and 083° True, respectively, from a point on shore at latitude 36°46′48″ N, longitude 75°57′24″ W; and an adjacent sector extending seaward for a distance of 15 nautical miles between two radial lines bearing 083° True and 150° True, respectively, from the same shore position. The datum for these coordinates is WGS-1984.


(b) *The regulation.* (1) To accommodate ingress and egress within the southern approach to the Chesapeake Bay Federal navigation channels, no live fire exercise will take place within the area northeast of, and defined by a line intersecting points latitude 36°47′59″ N, longitude 75°46′05″ W and latitude 36°44′25″ N, longitude 75°38′57″ W, and this area is open to unrestricted surface navigation.


(2) Within the remainder of the danger zone vessels shall proceed through the area with caution and shall remain therein no longer than necessary for the purpose of transit.


(3) When firing is in progress during daylight hours, red flags will be displayed at conspicuous locations on the beach. When firing is in progress during periods of darkness, red flashing lights will be displayed from conspicuous locations on the beach which are visible from the water a minimum distance of four (4) nautical miles.


(4) Firing on the ranges will be suspended as long as any vessel is within the danger zone.


(5) Lookout posts will be manned by the activity or agency operating the firing range at the Naval Air Station Oceana, Dam Neck Annex, in Virginia Beach, Virginia. After darkness, night vision systems will be utilized by lookouts to aid in locating vessels transiting the area.


(6) There shall be no firing on the range during periods of low visibility which would prevent the recognition of a vessel (to a distance of 7,500 yards) which is properly displaying navigation lights, or which would preclude a vessel from observing the red range flags or lights.


(7) Throughout the entire danger zone anchoring, dredging, trawling and any bottom disturbing activities should be conducted with caution due to the potential of unexploded ordnance (UXO) and other munitions and explosives of concern (MEC) on the bottom.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulation in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Air Force Atlantic, U.S. Fleet Forces Command, Norfolk, Virginia, and such agencies as he or she may designate. 



---

[N] [84 FR 33850, July 16, 2019]




