# ยง 3560.53   Eligible use of funds.

Funds may be used for the following purposes.


(a) *Construct housing.* Funds may be used to construct MFH.


(b) *Purchase and rehabilitate buildings.* Funds may be used to purchase and rehabilitate buildings that have not been previously financed by the Agency.


(1) Rehabilitation must meet the definition of either moderate or substantial rehabilitation as defined in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A.


(2) The building to be rehabilitated must be structurally sound and the improvements to the building must be necessary to meet the requirements of decent, safe, and sanitary living units.


(3) The total development cost (TDC) for the purchase and rehabilitation of existing buildings must not be more than the estimated TDC for construction of a similar type and unit size property in the same area.


(c) *Subsequent loans.* Funds may be used to provide subsequent loans in accordance with the provisions of ยง 3560.73.


(d) *Purchase and improve sites.* Funds may be used to purchase and improve the site on which MFH will be located, provided that the amount of loan funds used to purchase the site does not exceed the appraised market value of the site immediately prior to purchase.


(e) *Develop and install necessary systems.* Funds may be used to install streets, a water supply, sewage disposal, heating and cooling systems, electric, gas, solar, or other power sources for lighting and other features necessary for the housing. If such facilities are located off-site, loan funds may only be used if the following additional requirements are met:


(1) The loan applicant will hold title to the facility or have a legal right to use the facility in the form of an easement or other instrument acceptable to the Agency for a period of at least 50 percent longer than the term of the loan or grant and the title or right is transferable to any subsequent owner of the housing.


(2) The facilities will either be provided for the exclusive use of the proposed housing project, or Agency funds are limited to the prorated part of the total cost of the facility according to the use and benefit to the MFH project. If entities other than the housing project financed by the Agency use the facilities on a reimbursable fee basis, the loan applicant must agree, in writing, to apply any fees collected in excess of operating expenses to their Agency loan account as an extra loan payment.


(f) *Landscaping and site development.* Funds may be used to provide landscaping and site development related to a MFH project such as lighting, walks, fences, parking areas, and driveways.


(g) *Tenant-related facilities.* Funds may be used to develop tenant-related facilities appropriate to the size, economics, and prospective tenants of a MFH project, such as a community room, development of space for education and training purposes for tenants, central laundry facility, outdoor seating, space for passive recreation, tot lots, and a small emergency care infirmary. In congregate housing and group homes, funds may be used for central cooking and dining areas.


(h) *Management-related facilities.* Funds may be used to develop management-related facilities appropriate to the size and economics of a MFH project such as a maintenance workshop, storage facilities, office, and living quarters for a resident manager and other personnel.


(i) *Purchase and install equipment and appliances.* Funds may be used to purchase and install equipment and appliances affixed to the property as customary and appropriate for the area in which the housing is located.


(j) *Household furnishings (Section 514/516).* For farm labor housing sections 514 and 516 only, funds may be used to purchase household furnishings.


(k) *Initial operating capital.* Loan funds equal to 2 percent of total development cost or appraised value, whichever is less, may be used by a state or political subdivision thereof, Indian tribe, consumer cooperative, or any public or private nonprofit borrower who is not receiving low-income housing tax credits (LIHTC), to make the initial operating capital contribution required by ยง 3560.64. Other borrowers must use their own resources to make the required initial operating capital contribution and may not use loan funds for that purpose.


(l) *Builder's profit, overhead and general requirements.* Subject to the following limits, funds may be used for builder's profit, overhead and general requirements.


(1) Up to 10 percent of the construction contract may be used for builder's profit.


(2) Up to 4 percent of the construction contract may be used for general overhead.


(3) Up to 7 percent of the construction contract may be used for general requirements.


(m) *Legal, technical and professional services.* Funds may be used for the costs of legal, technical, and professional services related to the borrower's MFH project, including appraisals, environmental documentation, and construction plans and specifications.


(n) *Permit and application fees.* Funds may be used for required MFH permits and application fees.


(o) *Reimbursement to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.* Funds may be used to reimburse a nonprofit organization or public body for up to 2 percent of total development costs for section 515, or up to 4 percent of total development costs for off-farm labor housing, for costs that are reasonable and typical for the area, including:


(1) Development and packaging of a loan application and a MFH proposal; and


(2) Legal, technical, and professional fees incurred in the formation of the loan application and MFH proposal; or


(3) Technical assistance from another nonprofit organization to assist in the organization's formation and in the development and packaging of a loan application and MFH proposal.


(p) *Educational programs.* Funds may be used for educational programs related to owning and managing a cooperative housing project for the board of directors of a housing cooperative during the first year of the housing operation. Such funds will be available from the initial operating account. The amount of the funds disbursed will be subject to Agency approval and availability of financial resources from the project.


(q) *Interest and customary charges.* Funds may be used for interest accrued and customary charges necessary to obtain interim financing.


(r) *Purchase housing from an interim lender.* Funds may be used to purchase MFH from an interim lender that holds fee simple title to Agency-financed housing upon which construction commenced and a letter of commitment had been issued by the Agency but the original applicant for whom funds were obligated will not or cannot continue with construction of the housing. In order for the purchase to take place, there must be no outstanding unpaid obligations in connection with the housing.


(s) *Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970.* Funds may be used for necessary costs incurred to comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970.


(t) *Demonstration programs.* With the RHS Administrator's approval, funds may be used to construct demonstration housing involving innovative units and systems which do not meet existing published standards, rules, regulations, or policies but meet the intent of providing affordable, decent, safe, and sanitary rural housing, and are consistent with the requirements of Title V of the Housing Act of 1949.


(u) *Conversion of section 502 properties.* In accordance with ยง 3560.506, loan funds may be used to finance the conversion of real estate owned units originally financed under section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949, to MFH authorized by section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949. 




