# ยง 33.1   Definitions.

(a) *Agency* means that organizational unit of the Bureau which provides direct services to the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian Tribes.


(b) *Early childhood* means education activities serving the 0 to 8 year old child, including pre-natal, child care, kindergarten, homebase, homebound, and special education programs.


(c) *Elementary and secondary education* means those programs serving the child from grade one through grade twelve.


(d) *Operating level* means the organizational level at which direct educational services are performed.


(e) *Personnel directly and substantially involved* means those persons who provide services which affect the operation of Indian education programs, including (but not limited to) school or institution custodial or maintenance personnel, and whose services for Indian education programs require the expenditure of at least 51 percent of the employee's working time. 


(f) *Post-secondary* means education programs that are provided for persons past the age for compulsory education to include continuing education, higher education, undergraduate and graduate, career and adult education. As used in this Act, the term Post-Secondary shall include those Bureau of Indian Affairs programs operated at Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute, the Institute of American Indian Arts, and Haskell Indian Junior College, and those operated at Tribally controlled community colleges under Pub. L. 95-471.




