# ยง 239.58   Offering circular.

(a) *Filing requirements.* (1) The mutual holding company must prepare and file the offering circular with the appropriate Reserve Bank in compliance with this subpart and Form OC. The mutual holding company may obtain Form OC from the Reserve Bank and the Board's Web site (*http://www.federalreserve.gov*).


(2) The mutual holding company must condition the stock offering upon member approval of the plan of conversion.


(3) The Board will review the Form OC and may comment on the included disclosures and financial statements.


(4) The mutual holding company must file a revised offering circular, final offering circular, and any post-effective amendment to the final offering circular.


(5) The Board will not approve the adequacy or accuracy of the offering circular or the disclosures.


(b) *Distribution of the offering circular.* (1) The mutual holding company may distribute a preliminary offering circular at the same time as or after the mutual holding company mails the proxy statement to its members.


(2) The mutual holding company must distribute the offering circular in accordance with this subpart and with all applicable securities laws.


(3) The mutual holding company must distribute the offering circular to persons listed in the plan of conversion no later than ten days after the Board approves the conversion.


(c) *Post-effective amendments to the offering circular.* (1) The mutual holding company must file a post-effective amendment to the offering circular with the Board when a material event or change of circumstance occurs.


(2) After the Securities and Exchange Commission declares the post-effective amendment effective, the mutual holding company must immediately deliver the amendment to each person who subscribed for or ordered shares in the offering.


(3) The post-effective amendment must indicate that each person may increase, decrease, or rescind their subscription or order.


(4) The post-effective offering period must remain open no less than 10 days nor more than 20 days, unless the Board approves a longer rescission period.




