# § 232.500   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions contained in subpart A, incorporated herein by reference, the following terms, as used in §§ 232.500 *et seq.,* shall have the meaning indicated: 


(a) *Insured loan* means a loan insured by the endorsement of the credit instrument by the Commissioner. 


(b) *Insurance premium* means the loan insurance premium paid by the financial institution to the Commissioner in consideration of the contract of insurance. 


(c)(1) *Fire safety equipment* means equipment that is purchased, installed, and maintained in a nursing home, intermediate care facility, assisted living facility, or board and care home and that meets the following standards for the applicable occupancy: 


(i) The edition of The Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association as accepted by the Department of Health and Human Services in 42 CFR 483.70; or


(ii) A standard mandated by a State under the provisions of section 1616(e) of the Social Security Act.


(iii) Any appropriate requirement approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for providers of services under title XVIII or title XIX of the Social Security Act.


(2) In addition to those requirements approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as necessary for the appropriate level of occupancy, *fire safety equipment* may also include fire safety-related improvements that are not mandatory under the requirements of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, but which the Secretary of Health and Human Services considers acceptable and reasonable for protection against the hazards of fire and which the borrower agrees to install.


(3) For the purposes of this definition, the terms *nursing home* and *intermediate care facility* shall include those facilities designated as skilled nursing facilities or intermediate care facilities by the Department of Health and Human Services.


(d) *Fire safety loan* means any form of secured or unsecured obligation determined by the Commissioner to be eligible for insurance under this subpart and, in the case of an assisted living facility or a board and care home, made with respect to such a home located in a State which the Secretary has determined is in compliance with the provisions of section 1616(e) of the Social Security Act. 


(e) *Equipment cost* means the reasonable cost of fire safety equipment fully installed as determined by the Commissioner.


(f) *Insured loan maturity* means the date on which the loan indebtedness would be extinguished if paid in accordance with periodic payments provided for in the loan instrument or instruments. 


(g) *Approved lender* means a financial institution or other mortgagee approved by the Commissioner as eligible for insurance under section 2 of the National Housing Act, or a mortgagee approved under section 203(b)(1) of the National Housing Act. 



---

[N] [39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 50 FR 37522, Sept. 16, 1985; 59 FR 61228, Nov. 29, 1994; 80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]




