# § 200.465   Rental costs of real property and equipment.

(a) Subject to the limitations described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, rental costs are allowable to the extent that the rates are reasonable in light of such factors as costs of comparable rental properties; market conditions in the area; alternatives available; and the type, life expectancy, condition, and value of the property leased. Rental arrangements should be reviewed periodically to determine if circumstances have changed and if other options are available.


(b) Rental costs under “sale and lease back” arrangements are allowable only up to the amount that would have been allowed if the recipient or subrecipient had continued to own the property. This amount would include expenses such as depreciation, maintenance, taxes, and insurance.


(c) Rental costs under “less-than-arm's-length” leases are allowable only up to the amount described in paragraph (b) of this section. For this purpose, a less-than-arm's-length lease is one under which one party to the lease agreement can control or substantially influence the actions of the other. Such leases include, but are not limited to, those between:


(1) Divisions of the recipient or subrecipient;


(2) The recipient or subrecipient and another entity under common control through common officers, directors, or members; and


(3) The recipient or subrecipient and a director, trustee, officer, or key employee of the recipient or subrecipient or an immediate family member, either directly or through corporations, trusts, or similar arrangements in which they hold a controlling interest. For example, the recipient or subrecipient may establish a separate corporation to own property and lease it back to the recipient or subrecipient.


(4) Family members include one party with any of the following relationships to another party:


(i) Spouse and parents thereof;


(ii) Children and spouses thereof;


(iii) Parents and spouses thereof;


(iv) Siblings and spouses thereof;


(v) Grandparents and grandchildren and spouses thereof;


(vi) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in 2 through 5 of this definition; and


(vii) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.


(d) Rental costs under leases which are required to be accounted for as a financed purchase under GASB standards or a finance lease under FASB standards are allowable only up to the amount (described in paragraph (b) of this section) that would have been allowed if the recipient or subrecipient had purchased the property on the date the lease agreement was executed. Interest costs related to these leases are allowable if they meet the criteria in § 200.449. Unallowable costs include costs that would not have been incurred if the recipient or subrecipient had purchased the property, such as amounts paid for profit, management fees, and taxes.


(e) Rental or lease payments are allowable under lease contracts where the recipient or subrecipient is required to recognize an intangible right-to-use lease asset under GASB standards or right-of-use operating lease asset under FASB standards for purposes of financial reporting in accordance with GAAP.


(f) The rental of any property owned by any individuals or entities affiliated with the recipient or subrecipient, including commercial or residential real estate, for purposes such as the home office is unallowable.






