# § 71.50-1   Definitions relating to hull examinations.

As used in this part—


*Adequate hull protection system* means a method of protecting the vessel's hull from corrosion. It includes, as a minimum, either hull coatings and a cathodic protection (CP) system consisting of sacrificial anodes, or an impressed current CP system.


*Alternative Hull Examination (AHE) Program* means a program in which an eligible vessel may receive an initial and subsequent credit hull examination through a combination of underwater surveys, internal examinations, and annual hull condition assessment. 


*Drydock examination* means hauling out a vessel or placing a vessel in a drydock or slipway for an examination of all accessible parts of the vessel's underwater body and all through-hull fittings and appurtenances, including verification of the accuracy of draft marks if not already verified at a previous drydock examination. 


*Internal structural examination* means an examination of the vessel while afloat or in drydock and consists of a complete examination of the vessel's main strength members, including the major internal framing, the hull plating, voids, and ballast tanks, but not including cargo, sewage, or fuel oil tanks. 


*Remotely operated vehicle (ROV) team,* at a minimum, consist of an ROV operator, a non-destructive testing inspector, an ROV tender or mechanic, and a team supervisor who is considered by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI), to have the appropriate training and experience to perform the survey and to safely operate the ROV in an effective manner. The team must also have a hull-positioning technician present. This position may be assigned to a team member already responsible for another team duty. 


*Shallow water* is an ascertained water depth at which the uppermost deck(s) of a sunken vessel remain above the water's surface. The determination of the water's depth is made by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) who considers the vessel's stability (passenger heeling moment), the contour of the hull, the composition of the river bottom, and any other factors that would tend to prevent a vessel from resting an even keel. 


*Third party examiner* means an entity: 


(1) With a thorough knowledge of diving operations, including diving limitations as related to diver safety and diver supervision; 


(2) Having a familiarity with, but not limited to, the following— 


(i) The camera used during the AHE; and 


(ii) The NDT equipment used during the AHE, including the effect of water clarity, and marine growth in relation to the quality of the readings obtained; 


(3) Having a familiarity with the communications equipment used during the AHE; 


(4) Possessing the knowledge of vessel structures, design features, nomenclature, and the applicable AHE regulations; and


(5) Able to present the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, with evidence of formal training, demonstrated ability, past acceptance, or a combination of these.


*Underwater Survey in Lieu of Drydocking (UWILD)* means a program in which an eligible vessel may alternate between an underwater survey and the required drydock examinations.



---

[N] [USCG-2000-6858, 67 FR 21076, Apr. 29, 2002, as amended by USCG-2000-6858, 69 FR 47382, Aug. 5, 2004; USCG-2007-0030, 75 FR 78081, Dec. 14, 2010; USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58281, Sept. 29, 2014]




