# § 48.4082-6   Kerosene; exemption for aviation-grade kerosene.

(a) *Overview.* This section prescribes the conditions under which tax does not apply to the removal or entry of aviation-grade kerosene that is destined for use as a fuel in an aircraft.


(b) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, *aviation-grade kerosene* means kerosene-type jet fuel covered by ASTM specification D 1655 or military specification MIL-DTL-5624T (Grade JP-5) or MIL-DTL-83133E (Grade JP-8). For availability of ASTM and military specifications, see § 48.4081-1(d).


(c) *Exemption for certain removals and entries.* Tax is not imposed under § 48.4081-2(b), 48.4081-3(b)(1)(ii), or 48.4081-3(c)(1)(ii) on the removal or entry of aviation-grade kerosene if—


(1) The person otherwise liable for tax is a taxable fuel registrant;


(2) In the case of a removal from a terminal, the terminal is an approved terminal; and 


(3)(i) The person otherwise liable for tax delivers the kerosene into the fuel supply tank of an aircraft and this delivery is not in connection with a sale; or 


(ii) The kerosene is sold for use as a fuel in an aircraft and, at the time of the sale, the person otherwise liable for tax has an unexpired certificate (described in paragraph (e) of this section) from the buyer and has no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.


(d) *Certain later sales*—(1) *In general.* Paragraph (c) of this section does not apply with respect to kerosene that is sold as described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section if there is a later disqualifying sale of the kerosene. A later disqualifying sale is any later sale other than a later sale—


(i) By a person that, at the time of the sale, has an unexpired certificate (described in paragraph (e) of this section) from the buyer and has no reason to believe that any information in the certificate is false; or 


(ii) In connection with the delivery of the kerosene into the fuel supply tank of an aircraft.


(2) *Imposition of tax; liability for tax.* Notwithstanding §§ 48.4081-2 and 48.4081-3, in any case in which paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies, tax is imposed with respect to that kerosene at the time of the first later disqualifying sale and the seller in that sale is liable for the tax.


(3) *Rate of tax.* For the rate of tax, see section 4081.


(e) *Certificate*—(1) *In general.* The certificate described in this paragraph (e) is a statement by a buyer that is signed under penalties of perjury by a person with authority to bind the buyer, is in substantially the same form as the model certificate provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, and contains all information necessary to complete the model certificate. A new certificate or notice that the current certificate is invalid must be given if any information in the current certificate changes. The certificate may be included as part of any business records normally used to document a sale. The certificate expires on the earliest of the following dates:


(i) The date one year after the effective date of the certificate (which may be no earlier than the date it is signed). 


(ii) The date the buyer provides the seller a new certificate or notice that the current certificate is invalid. 


(iii) The date the Internal Revenue Service or the buyer notifies the seller that the buyer's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn. 


(2) *Withdrawal of the right to provide a certificate.* The Internal Revenue Service may withdraw the right of a buyer of aviation-grade kerosene to provide a certificate under this section if the buyer uses the aviation-grade kerosene to which a certificate relates other than as a fuel in an aircraft or sells the kerosene without first obtaining a certificate from its buyer. The Internal Revenue Service may notify any seller to whom the buyer has provided a certificate that the buyer's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn. 


(3) *Model certificate.*

(f) *Effective date.* This section is applicable after March 30, 2000, except that paragraph (d) of this section is applicable after June 30, 2000. 



---

[N] [T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17158, Mar. 31, 2000]




