# § 480.120   Information subject to disclosure.

Subject to the procedures for disclosure and notice of disclosure specified in §§ 480.104 and 480.105, the QIO must disclose— 


(a) Nonconfidential information to any person upon request, including—


(1) The norms, criteria, and standards it uses for initial screening of cases, and for other review activities;


(2) Winning technical proposals for contracts from the Department, and winning technical proposals for subcontracts under those contracts (except for proprietary or business information);


(3) Copies of documents describing administrative procedures, agreed to between the QIO and institutions or between a QIO and the Medicare intermediary or Medicare carrier;


(4) Routine reports submitted by the QIO to CMS to the extent that they do not contain confidential information.


(5) Summaries of the proceedings of QIO regular and other meetings of the governing body and general membership except for those portions of the summaries involving QIO deliberations, which are confidential information and subject to the provisions of § 480.139;


(6) Public information in its possession;


(7) Aggregate statiscal information that does not implicitly or explicitly identify individual patients, practitioners or reviewers;


(8) Quality review study information including summaries and conclusions from which the identification of patients, practitioners and institutions has been deleted; and 


(9) Information describing the characteristics of a quality review study, including a study design and methodology.


(b) Aggregate statistical information that does not implicitly or explicitly identify individual patients, practitioners or reviewers, to Federal or State health planning agencies (including Health Systems Agencies and State Health Planning and Development Agencies) in carrying out their health care planning and related activities.



---

[N] [50 FR 15359, Apr. 17, 1985; 50 FR 41887, Oct. 16, 1985. Redesignated at 64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 49267, Aug. 11, 2004]




