# § 414.1385   Targeted review and review limitations.

(a) *Targeted review.* A MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup, or group; may request a targeted review of the calculation of the MIPS payment adjustment factor under section 1848(q)(6)(A) of the Act and, as applicable, the calculation of the additional MIPS payment adjustment factor under section 1848(q)(6)(C) of the Act (collectively referred to as the MIPS payment adjustment factors) applicable to such MIPS eligible clinician or group for a year. The process for targeted review is as follows:


(1) A MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup, or group; (including their designated support staff), or a third party intermediary as defined at § 414.1305, may submit a request for a targeted review.


(2) All requests for targeted review must be submitted during the targeted review request submission period, which begins on the day CMS makes available the MIPS final score, and ends 30 days after publication of the MIPS payment adjustment factors for the MIPS payment year. The targeted review request submission period may be extended as specified by CMS.


(3) A request for a targeted review may be denied if the request is duplicative of another request for a targeted review; the request is not submitted during the targeted review request submission period; or the request is outside of the scope of the targeted review, which is limited to the calculation of the MIPS payment adjustment factors applicable to the MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup, or group; for a year. If the targeted review request is denied, there will be no change to the MIPS final score or associated MIPS payment adjustment factors for the MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup, or group. If the targeted review request is approved, the MIPS final score and associated MIPS payment adjustment factors may be revised, if applicable, for the MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup, or group.


(4) CMS will respond to each request for a targeted review timely submitted and determine whether a targeted review is warranted.


(5) A request for a targeted review may include additional information in support of the request at the time it is submitted. If CMS requests additional information from the MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup. or group that is the subject of a request for a targeted review, the information must be provided and received by CMS within 15 days of CMS' request. Non-responsiveness to CMS' request for additional information may result in a final decision based on the information available, although another non-duplicative request for targeted review may be submitted before the end of the targeted review request submission period.


(6) If a request for a targeted review is approved, CMS may recalculate, to the extent feasible and applicable, the scores of a MIPS eligible clinician, virtual group, subgroup, or group with regard to measures, activities, performance categories, and the final score, as well as the MIPS payment adjustment factors.


(7) Decisions based on the targeted review are final, and there is no further review or appeal. CMS will notify the individual or entity that submitted the request for a targeted review of the final decision.


(8) Documentation submitted for a targeted review must be retained by the submitter for 6 years from the end of the MIPS performance period.


(b) *Limitations on review.* Except as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, there is no administrative or judicial review under section 1869 or 1879 of the Act, or otherwise of—


(1) The methodology used to determine the amount of the MIPS payment adjustment factor and the amount of the additional MIPS payment adjustment factor and the determination of such amounts;


(2) The establishment of the performance standards and the performance period;


(3) The identification of measures and activities specified for a MIPS performance category and information made public or posted on the Physician Compare Internet Web site of the CMS; and


(4) The methodology developed that is used to calculate performance scores and the calculation of such scores, including the weighting of measures and activities under such methodology.



---

[N] [81 FR 77537, Nov. 4, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 63197, Nov. 15, 2019; 88 FR 79536, Nov. 16, 2023]




