# § 429.134   Product-specific enforcement provisions.

(a) *General.* The following provisions apply to assessment and enforcement testing of the relevant products and equipment.


(b) *Refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers*—(1) *Verification of total refrigerated volume.* The total refrigerated volume of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of total refrigerated volume certified by the manufacturer. The certified total refrigerated volume will be considered valid only if:


(i) The measurement is within two percent, or 0.5 cubic feet (0.2 cubic feet for compact products), whichever is greater, of the certified total refrigerated volume, or


(ii) The measurement is greater than the certified total refrigerated volume.


(A) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be valid, the certified adjusted total volume will be used as the basis for calculation of maximum allowed energy use for the basic model.


(B) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be invalid, the average measured adjusted total volume, rounded to the nearest 0.1 cubic foot, will serve as the basis for calculation of maximum allowed energy use for the tested basic model.


(2) *Test for models with two compartments, each having its own user-operable temperature control.* The test described in section 5.2(b) of the applicable test procedure for refrigerators or refrigerator-freezers in appendix A to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 shall be used for all units of a tested basic model before DOE makes a determination of noncompliance with respect to the basic model.


(c) *Clothes washers*—(1) *Determination of Remaining Moisture Content.* These provisions address anomalous remaining moisture content (RMC) results that are not representative of a basic model's performance, as well as differences in RMC values that may result from DOE using a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model.


(i) When testing according to appendix J to subpart B of part 430:


(A) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is equal to or lower than the certified RMC value of the basic model (expressed as a percentage), then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value and will be used as the basis for the calculation of per-cycle energy consumption for removal of moisture from the test load for that unit.


(B) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would not affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(C) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then:


(*1*) If DOE used the same test cloth lot that was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*2*) If DOE used a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then:


(*i*) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model by more than three RMC percentage points, then a value three RMC percentage points less than the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*ii*) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model, but by no more than three RMC percentage points, then the certified RMC value of the basic model will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(ii) When testing according to appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430:


(A) The procedure for determining remaining moisture content (RMC) will be performed once in its entirety, pursuant to the test requirements of section 3.8 of appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430, for each unit tested.


(B) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is equal to or lower than the certified RMC value of the basic model (expressed as a percentage), then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value and will be used as the basis for the calculation of per-cycle energy consumption for removal of moisture from the test load for that unit.


(C) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but by no more than two RMC percentage points and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would not affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(D) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but by no more than two RMC percentage points and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then:


(*1*) If DOE used the same test cloth lot that was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*2*) If DOE used a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the certified RMC value of the basic model would be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(E) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model by more than two RMC percentage points, then DOE will perform two replications of the RMC measurement procedure, each pursuant to the provisions of section 3.8.5 of appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430, for a total of three independent RMC measurements of the tested unit. The average of the three RMC measurements will be calculated.


(*1*) If the average of the three RMC measurements is equal to or lower than the certified RMC value of the basic model, then the average RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*2*) If the average of the three RMC measurements is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would not affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then the average RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*3*) If the average of the three RMC measurements is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then DOE will apply paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(F) of this section.


(F) If the average of the three RMC measurements is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then:


(*1*) If DOE used the same test cloth lot that was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the average RMC pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E) of this section will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*2*) If DOE used a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then:


(*i*) If the average RMC value pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D) of this section is higher than the certified valued of the basic model by more than three RMC percentage points, then a value three RMC percentage points less than the average RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(*ii*) If the average RMC value pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D) of this section is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model, but by no more than three RMC percentage points, then the certified RMC value of the basic model will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Residential Water Heaters and Residential-Duty Commercial Water Heaters*—(1) *Verification of first-hour rating and maximum GPM rating.* The first-hour rating or maximum gallons per minute (GPM) rating of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The mean of the measured values will be compared to the rated values of first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating as certified by the manufacturer. The certified rating will be considered valid only if the measurement is within five percent of the certified rating.


(i) If the rated value of first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating is found to be within 5 percent of the mean of the measured values, then the rated value will be used as the basis for determining the applicable draw pattern pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested.


(ii) If the rated value of first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating is found to vary more than 5 percent from the measured values, then the mean of the measured values will serve as the basis for determining the applicable draw pattern pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested.


(2) *Verification of rated storage volume.* The storage volume of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix E to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The mean of the measured values will be compared to the rated storage volume as certified by the manufacturer. The rated value will be considered valid only if the measurement is within 3 percent of the certified rating.


(i) If the rated storage volume is found to be within 3 percent of the mean of the measured value of storage volume, then the rated value will be used as the basis for calculation of the required uniform energy factor for the basic model.


(ii) If the rated storage volume is found to vary more than 3 percent from the mean of the measured values, then the mean of the measured values will be used as the basis for calculation of the required uniform energy factor for the basic model.




(3) *Verification of fuel input rate.* The fuel input rate of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of section 5.2.3 of 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix E. The measured fuel input rate (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measured fuel input rate is within ±2 percent of the certified rated input.


(i) If the certified rated input is found to be valid, then the certified rated input will be used to determine compliance with the associated energy conservation standard.


(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for gas-fired or oil-fired water heating products is not within ±2 percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will be used to determine compliance with the associated energy conservation standard.


(4) *Circulating water heaters.* A storage tank for testing will be selected as described in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. The effective storage volume of the circulating water heater determined in testing will be measured in accordance with appendix E to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 with the storage tank that is used for testing.


(i) *Electric heat pump circulating water heaters.* For UEF and first-hour rating testing, electric heat pump circulating water heaters will be tested with a minimally-compliant electric storage water heater (as defined at § 430.2 of this chapter) that has a rated storage volume of between 25 and 35 gallons, and is in the low draw pattern, as determined in accordance with appendix E to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 and the standards set at § 430.32(d) of this chapter. If the manufacturer certifies the specific model of electric storage water heater used for testing to determine the certified UEF and first-hour rating of the electric heat pump circulating water heater, that model of electric storage water heater will be used for testing. If this is not possible (such as if the electric storage water heater model is no longer available or has been discontinued), testing will be performed with an electric storage water heater that has a minimally-compliant UEF rating, in the low draw pattern, and a rated storage volume that is within ± 3 gallons of the rated storage volume of the electric storage water heater used to determine the certified ratings of the electric heat pump circulating water heater (but not less than 25 gallons and not greater than 35 gallons). If no such model is available, then testing will be performed with a minimally-compliant electric storage water heater that has a rated storage volume of between 25 and 35 gallons and is in the low draw pattern.


(ii) *All other circulating water heaters.* For UEF and first-hour rating testing, circulating water heaters are paired with unfired hot water storage tanks (“UFHWSTs”) that have certified storage volumes between 80 and 120 gallons and are at exactly the minimum thermal insulation standard, in terms of R-value, for UFHWSTs, as per the standards set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. Testing will be performed as follows:


(A) If the manufacturer certifies the specific model of UFHWST used for testing to determine the certified UEF and first-hour rating of the circulating water heater, that model of UFHWST will be used for testing.


(B) If it is not possible to perform testing with the same model of UFHWST certified by the manufacturer, testing will be carried out with a different model of UFHWST accordingly:


(1) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from the same manufacturer as the certified UFHWST, with the same certified storage volume as the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,


(2) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from a different manufacturer than the certified UFHWST, with the same certified storage volume as the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,


(3) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from the same manufacturer as the certified UFHWST, having a certified storage volume within ±5 gallons of the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,


(4) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from a different manufacturer than the certified UFHWST, having a certified storage volume within ±5 gallons of the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,


(5) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST having a certified storage volume between 80 gallons and 120 gallons and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter.




(e) *Packaged terminal air conditioners and packaged terminal heat pumps*—(1) *Verification of cooling capacity.* The total cooling capacity of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of cooling capacity certified by the manufacturer. The certified cooling capacity will be considered valid only if the average measured cooling capacity is within five percent of the certified cooling capacity.


(i) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be valid, that cooling capacity will be used as the basis for calculation of minimum allowed EER (and minimum allowed COP for PTHP models) for the basic model.


(ii) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured cooling capacity will serve as the basis for calculation of minimum allowed EER (and minimum allowed COP for PTHP models) for the tested basic model.


(2) [Reserved]


(f) *Dehumidifiers*—(1) *Verification of capacity.* The capacity will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of capacity certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified capacity will be considered valid only if the measurement is within five percent, or 1.00 pint per day, whichever is greater, of the certified capacity.


(i) If the certified capacity is found to be valid, the certified capacity will be used as the basis for determining the minimum energy factor or integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.


(ii) If the certified capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured capacity of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the minimum energy factor or integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.


(2) *Verification of whole-home dehumidifier case volume.* The case volume will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of case volume certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified case volume will be considered valid only if the measurement is within two percent, or 0.2 cubic feet, whichever is greater, of the certified case volume.


(i) If the certified case volume is found to be valid, the certified case volume will be used as the basis for determining the minimum integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.


(ii) If the certified case volume is found to be invalid, the average measured case volume of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the minimum integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.






(g) *Commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment (excluding air-cooled equipment with a cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h).* Before May 15, 2025, the provisions in 10 CFR 429.134, revised as of January 1, 2024, are applicable. On and after May 15, 2025, the following provisions apply.


(1) *Verification of cooling capacity.* The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix A or appendix A1 to subpart F of part 431. The mean of the cooling capacity measurement(s) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.


(2) *Specific components.* For assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to energy conservation standards denominated in terms of IVEC and IVHE, if a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 7 to § 429.43(a)(3)(vi)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(vi)(A)(*1*)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.


(3) *Verification of cut-out and cut-in temperatures.* For assessment and enforcement testing of models of commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment subject to energy conservation standards denominated in terms of IVHE, the cut-out and cut-in temperatures may be verified using the method in appendix H to AHRI 1340-2023 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4). If this method is conducted, the cut-in and cut-out temperatures determined using this method will be used to calculate IVHE for purposes of compliance.






(h) *Residential boilers—test protocols for functional verification of automatic means for adjusting water temperature.* These tests are intended to verify the functionality of the design requirement that a boiler has an automatic means for adjusting water temperature for single-stage, two-stage, and modulating boilers. These test methods are intended to permit the functional testing of a range of control strategies used to fulfill this design requirement. Section 2, *Definitions,* and paragraph 6.1.a of appendix EE to subpart B of part 430 of this chapter apply for the purposes of this paragraph (h).


(1) *Test protocol for all products other than single-stage products employing burner delay.* This test is intended to verify whether an automatic means for adjusting water temperature other than burner delay produces an incremental change in water supply temperature in response to an incremental change in inferred heat load.


(i) *Boiler setup*—(A) *Boiler installation.* Boiler installation in the test room shall be in accordance with the setup and apparatus requirements of section 6 of appendix EE to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.


(B) *Establishing flow rate and temperature rise.* Start the boiler without enabling the means for adjusting water temperature. Establish a water flow rate that allows for a water temperature rise of greater than or equal to 20 °F at maximum input rate.


(C) *Temperature stabilization.* Temperature stabilization is deemed to be obtained when the boiler supply water temperature does not vary by more than ±3 °F over a period of five minutes.


(D) *Adjust the inferential load controller.* (*1*) Adjust the boiler controls (in accordance with the I&O manual) to the default setting that allows for activation of the means for adjusting water temperature. For boiler controls that do not allow for control adjustment during active mode operation, terminate call for heat and adjust the inferential load controller in accordance with the I&O manual and then reinitiate call for heat.


(*2*) If the means for adjusting water temperature uses outdoor temperature reset, the maximum outdoor temperature setting (if equipped) should be set to a temperature high enough that the boiler operates continuously during the duration of this test (*i.e.,* if the conditions in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section equal room ambient temperature, then the maximum outdoor temperature should be set at a temperature greater than the ambient air temperature during the test).


(ii) *Establish low inferred load conditions at minimum boiler supply water temperature*—(A) *Establish low inferred load conditions.* (*1*) Establish the inferred load conditions (simulated using a controlling parameter, such as outdoor temperature, thermostat patterns, or boiler cycling) so that the supply water temperature is maintained at the minimum supply water temperature prescribed by the boiler manufacturer's temperature reset control strategy found in the I&O manual.


(*2*) The minimum supply water temperature of the default temperature reset curve is usually provided in the I&O manual. If there is no recommended minimum supply water temperature, set the minimum supply water temperature equal to 20 °F less than the high supply water temperature specified in paragraph (h)(1)(iii)(A) of this section.


(B) *Supply water temperature stabilization at low inferred load.* (*1*) Maintain the call for heat until the boiler supply water temperature has stabilized. Temperature stabilization is deemed to be obtained when the boiler supply water temperature does not vary by more than ±3 °F over a period of five minutes. The duration of time required to stabilize the supply water, following the procedure in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, is dependent on the reset strategy and may vary from model to model.


(*2*) Record the boiler supply water temperature while the temperature is stabilized.


(iii) *Establish high inferred load conditions at maximum boiler supply water temperature*—(A) *Establish high inferred load conditions.* Establish the inferred load conditions so that the supply water temperature is set to the maximum allowable supply water temperature as prescribed in the I&O manual, or if there is no recommendation, set to a temperature greater than 170 °F.


(B) *Supply water temperature stabilization at high inferred load.* (*1*) Maintain the call for heat until the boiler supply water temperature has stabilized. Temperature stabilization is deemed to be obtained when the boiler supply water temperature does not vary by more than ±3 °F over a period of five minutes. The duration of time required to stabilize the supply water, following the procedure in paragraph (h)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, is dependent on the reset strategy and may vary from model to model.


(*2*) Record the boiler supply water temperature while the temperature is stabilized.


(*3*) Terminate the call for heat.


(iv) [Reserved]


(2) *Test protocol for single-stage products employing burner delay.* This test will be used in place of paragraph (h)(1) of this section for products manufacturers have certified to DOE under § 429.18(b)(3) as employing a burner delay automatic means strategy. This test verifies whether the automatic means in single-stage boiler products establishes a burner delay upon a call for heat until the means has determined that the inferred heat load cannot be met by the residual heat of the water in the system.


(i) *Boiler setup*—(A) *Boiler installation.* Boiler installation in the test room shall be in accordance with the setup and apparatus requirements by section 6.0 of appendix EE to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.


(B) *Activation of controls.* Adjust the boiler controls in accordance with the I&O manual at the default setting that allows for activation of the means for adjusting water temperature.


(C) *Adjustment of water flow and temperature.* The flow and temperature of inlet water to the boiler shall be capable of being adjusted manually.


(ii) *Boiler heat-up*—(A) *Boiler start-up.* Power up the boiler and initiate a call for heat.


(B) *Adjustment of firing rate.* Adjust the boiler's firing rate to within ±5% of its maximum rated input.


(C) *Establishing flow rate and temperature rise.* Adjust the water flow through the boiler to achieve a ΔT of 20 °F (±2 °F) or greater with an inlet water temperature equal to 140 °F (±2 °F).


(D) *Terminate the call for heating.* Terminate the call for heat, stop the flow of water through the boiler, and record the time at termination.


(iii) *Verify burner delay*—(A) *Reinitiate call for heat.* Within three (3) minutes of termination (paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(D) of this section) and without adjusting the inlet water flow rate or temperature as specified in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, reinitiate the call for heat and water flow and record the time.


(B) *Verify burner ignition.* At 15-second intervals, record time and supply water temperature until the main burner ignites.


(C) *Terminate the call for heat.*

(iv) [Reserved]




(i) *Pumps*—(1) *General purpose pumps.* (i) The volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464 of this chapter, where the value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation certified by the manufacturer will be treated as the expected BEP flow rate. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation certified by the manufacturer. The certified volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation for a single unit sample or the average of the measured flow rates for a multiple unit sample) is within five percent of the certified volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation.


(A) If the representative value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation is found to be valid, the measured volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation will be used in subsequent calculations of constant load pump energy rating (PER_CL_) and constant load pump energy index (PEI_CL_) or variable load pump energy rating (PER_VL_) and variable load pump energy index (PEI_VL_) for that basic model.


(B) If the representative value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation values determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the new expected BEP flow rate and the unit(s) will be retested until such time as the measured rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation is within 5 percent of the expected BEP flow rate.


(ii) DOE will test each pump unit according to the test method specified by the manufacturer in the certification report submitted pursuant to § 429.59(b); if the model of pump unit was rated using an AEDM, DOE may use either a testing approach or calculation approach.




(2) *Dedicated-purpose pool pumps.* (i) The rated hydraulic horsepower of each tested unit of the basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(b) of this chapter and the result of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured rated hydraulic horsepower for a single unit sample or the average of the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified rated hydraulic horsepower.


(A) If the representative value of rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be valid, the value of rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the standard level for that basic model.


(B) If the representative value of rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the standard level for that basic model.


(ii) To verify the self-priming capability of non-self-priming pool filter pumps and of self-priming pool filter pumps that are not certified with NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4) as self-priming, the vertical lift and true priming time of each tested unit of the basic model of self-priming or non-self-priming pool filter pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(b) of this chapter.


(A) For self-priming pool filter pumps that are not certified with NSF/ANSI 50-2015 as self-priming, at a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the result of the true priming time measurement(s) will be compared to the value of true priming time certified by the manufacturer. The certified value of true priming time will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured true priming time for a single unit sample or the average of true priming time values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified value of true priming time.


(*1*) If the representative value of true priming time is found to be valid, the value of true priming time certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.


(*2*) If the representative value of true priming time is found to be invalid, the mean of the values of true priming time determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.


(B) For non-self-priming pool filter pumps, at a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the result of the true priming time measurement(s) (either the measured true priming time for a single unit sample or the average of true priming time values, for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the value of true priming time referenced in the definition of non-self-priming pool filter pump at § 431.462 (10.0 minutes).


(*1*) If the measurement(s) of true priming time are greater than 95 percent of the value of true priming time referenced in the definition of non-self-priming pool filter pump at § 431.462 with a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the DPPP model will be considered a non-self-priming pool filter pump for the purposes of determining the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.


(*2*) If the conditions specified in paragraph (i)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section are not satisfied, then the DPPP model will be considered a self-priming pool filter pump for the purposes of determining the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.


(iii) To verify the maximum head of self-priming pool filter pump, non-self-priming pool filter pumps, and waterfall pumps, the maximum head of each tested unit of the basic model of self-priming pool filter pump, non-self-priming pool filter pump, or waterfall pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(b) of this chapter and the result of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of maximum head certified by the manufacturer. The certified value of maximum head will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured maximum head for a single unit sample or the average of the maximum head values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified values of maximum head.


(A) If the representative value of maximum head is found to be valid, the value of maximum head certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.


(B) If the representative value of maximum head is found to be invalid, the measured value(s) of maximum head determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.


(iv) To verify that a DPPP model complies with the applicable freeze protection control design requirements, the initiation temperature, run-time, and speed of rotation of the default control configuration of each tested unit of the basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump will be evaluated according to the procedure specified in paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(A) of this section:


(A)(*1*) Set up and configure the dedicated-purpose pool pump under test according to the manufacturer instructions, including any necessary initial priming, in a test apparatus as described in appendix A of HI 40.6-2014-B (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4), except that the ambient temperature registered by the freeze protection ambient temperature sensor will be able to be measured and controlled by, for example, exposing the freeze protection temperature sensor to a specific temperature by submerging the sensor in a water bath of known temperature, by adjusting the actual ambient air temperature of the test chamber and measuring the temperature at the freeze protection ambient temperature sensor location, or by other means that allows the ambient temperature registered by the freeze protection temperature sensor to be reliably simulated, varied, and measured. Do not adjust the default freeze protection control settings or enable the freeze protection control if it is shipped disabled.


(*2*) Activate power to the pump with the flow rate set to zero (*i.e.,* the pump is energized but not circulating water). Set the ambient temperature to 42.0 ± 0.5  °F and allow the temperature to stabilize, where stability is determined in accordance with section 40.6.3.2.2 of HI 40.6-2014-B. After 5 minutes, decrease the temperature measured by the freeze protection temperature sensor by 1.0 ± 0.5  °F and allow the temperature to stabilize. After each reduction in ambient temperature and subsequent stabilization, record the DPPP rotating speed, if any, and freeze protection ambient temperature reading, where the “freeze protection ambient temperature reading” is representative of the temperature measured by the freeze protection ambient temperature sensor, which may be recorded by a variety of means depending on how the temperature is being simulated and controlled. If no flow is initiated, record zero rpm or no flow. Continue decreasing the temperature measured by the freeze protection temperature sensor by 1.0 ± 0.5  °F after 5.0 minutes of stable operation at the previous temperature reading until the pump freeze protection initiates water circulation or until the ambient temperature of 38.0 ± 0.5  °F has been evaluated (*i.e.,* the end of the 5.0 minute interval of 38.0  °F), whichever occurs first.


(*3*) If and when the DPPP freeze protection controls initiate water circulation, increase the ambient temperature reading registered by the freeze protection temperature sensor to a temperature of 42.0 ± 0.5  °F and maintain that temperature for 60.0 minutes. Do not modify or interfere with the operation of the DPPP freeze protection operating cycle. After 60.0 minutes, record the freeze protection ambient temperature and rotating speed, if any, of the dedicated-purpose pool pump under test.


(B) If the dedicated-purpose pool pump initiates water circulation at a temperature greater than 40.0  °F; if the dedicated-purpose pool pump was still circulating water after 60.0 minutes of operation at 42.0 ± 0.5  °F; or if rotating speed measured at any point during the DPPP freeze protection control test in paragraph (i)(2)(iii)(A) of this section was greater than one-half of the maximum rotating speed of the DPPP model certified by the manufacturer, that DPPP model is deemed to not comply with the design requirement for freeze protection controls.


(C) If none of the conditions specified in paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(B) of this section are met, including if the DPPP freeze protection control does not initiate water circulation at all during the test, the dedicated-purpose pool pump under test is deemed compliant with the design requirement for freeze protection controls.


(3) *Circulator pumps.* (i) The flow rate at BEP and maximum speed of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(c) of this chapter, where the value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed certified by the manufacturer will be treated as the expected BEP flow rate at maximum speed. The resulting measurement(s) will be compared to the value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed certified by the manufacturer. The certified flow rate at BEP and maximum speed will be considered valid only if the measurement (either the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed for a single unit sample or the average of the measured flow rates for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified flow rate at BEP and maximum speed.


(A) If the representative value of flow rate is found to be valid, the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed will be used in subsequent calculations of circulator energy rating (CER) and circulator energy index (CEI) for that basic model.


(B) If the representative value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured values of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the new expected BEP flow rate and the unit(s) will be retested until such time as the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed is within 5 percent of the expected BEP flow rate.


(ii) The rated hydraulic horsepower of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(c) of this chapter. The resulting measurement will be compared to the rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be considered valid only if the measurement (either the measured rated hydraulic horsepower for a single unit sample or the average of the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified rated hydraulic horsepower.


(A) If the certified rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be valid, the certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be used as the basis for determining scope of applicability for that model.


(B) If the certified rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be invalid, the arithmetic mean of all the hydraulic horsepower values resulting from DOE's testing will be used as the basis for determining scope of applicability for that model.


(iii) DOE will test each circulator pump unit according to the control setting with which the unit was rated. If no control setting is specified and no controls were available, DOE will test using the full speed test. If no control setting is specified and a variety of controls are available, DOE will test using the test method for any one of the control varieties available on board.


(iv) DOE will test each circulator pump using the description and equation for the control curve with which it was rated, if available.


(j) *Refrigerated bottled or canned beverage vending machines*—(1) *Verification of refrigerated volume.* The refrigerated volume (V) of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR 431.296. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the representative value of refrigerated volume certified by the manufacturer. The certified refrigerated volume will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured refrigerated volume for a single unit sample or the average of the measured refrigerated volumes for a multiple unit sample) is within five percent of the certified refrigerated volume.


(i) If the representative value of refrigerated volume is found to be valid, the certified refrigerated volume will be used as the basis for calculation of maximum daily energy consumption for the basic model.


(ii) If the representative value of refrigerated volume is found to be invalid, the average measured refrigerated volume determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the basis for calculation of maximum daily energy consumption for the tested basic model.


(2) *Verification of surface area, transparent, and non-transparent areas.* The percent transparent surface area on the front side of the basic model will be measured pursuant to these requirements for the purposes of determining whether a given basic model meets the definition of Class A or Combination A, as presented at 10 CFR 431.292. The transparent and non-transparent surface areas shall be determined on the front side of the beverage vending machine at the outermost surfaces of the beverage vending machine cabinet, from edge to edge, excluding any legs or other protrusions that extend beyond the dimensions of the primary cabinet. Determine the transparent and non-transparent areas on each side of a beverage vending machine as described in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. For combination vending machines, disregard the surface area surrounding any refrigerated compartments that are not designed to be refrigerated (as demonstrated by the presence of temperature controls), whether or not it is transparent. Determine the percent transparent surface area on the front side of the beverage vending machine as a ratio of the measured transparent area on that side divided by the sum of the measured transparent and non-transparent areas, multiplying the result by 100.


(*i*) *Determination of transparent area.* Determine the total surface area that is transparent as the sum of all surface areas on the front side of a beverage vending machine that meet the definition of transparent at 10 CFR 431.292. When determining whether or not a particular wall segment is transparent, transparency should be determined for the aggregate performance of all the materials between the refrigerated volume and the ambient environment; the composite performance of all those materials in a particular wall segment must meet the definition of transparent for that area be treated as transparent.


(*ii*) *Determination of non-transparent area.* Determine the total surface area that is not transparent as the sum of all surface areas on the front side of a beverage vending machine that are not considered part of the transparent area, as determined in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section.


(k) *Central air conditioners and heat pumps*—(1) *Verification of cooling capacity.* The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems) will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23(m) of this chapter. The mean of the measurement(s) (either the measured cooling capacity for a single unit sample or the average of the measured cooling capacities for a multiple unit sample) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.


(2) *Verification of C*_D_ value. (i) For central air conditioners and heat pumps other than models of outdoor units with no match, if manufacturers certify that they did not conduct the optional tests to determine the C_c_ and/or C_h_ value for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the default C_c_ and/or C_h_ value will be used as the basis for calculation of SEER or HSPF for each unit tested. If manufacturers certify that they conducted the optional tests to determine the C_c_ and/or C_h_ value for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the C_c_ and/or C_h_ value will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23(m) of this chapter for each unit tested and the result for each unit tested (either the tested value or the default value, as selected according to the criteria for the cyclic test in 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix M, section 3.5e) used as the basis for calculation of SEER or HSPF for that unit.


(ii) For models of outdoor units with no match, DOE will use the default C_c_ and/or C_h_ value pursuant to 10 CFR part 430.


(l) *Miscellaneous refrigeration products*—(1) *Verification of total refrigerated volume.* For all miscellaneous refrigeration products, the total refrigerated volume of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of total refrigerated volume certified by the manufacturer. The certified total refrigerated volume will be considered valid only if:


(i) The measurement is within two percent, or 0.5 cubic feet (0.2 cubic feet for products with total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet (220 liters)), whichever is greater, of the certified total refrigerated volume; or


(ii) The measurement is greater than the certified total refrigerated volume.


(A) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be valid, the certified adjusted total volume will be used as the basis for calculating the maximum allowed energy use for the tested basic model.


(B) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be invalid, the average measured adjusted total volume, rounded to the nearest 0.1 cubic foot, will serve as the basis for calculating the maximum allowed energy use for the tested basic model.


(2) *Test for models with two compartments, each having its own user-operable temperature control.* The test described in section 5.2(b) of the applicable test procedure in appendix A to subpart B part 430 of this chapter shall be used for all units of a tested basic model before DOE makes a determination of noncompliance with respect to the basic model.


(m) *Commercial packaged boilers*—(1) *Verification of fuel input rate.* The fuel input rate of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.86 of this chapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) is within two percent of the certified rated input.


(i) If the measured fuel input rate is within two-percent of the certified rated input, the certified rated input will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and the mean measured fuel input rate will be used as the basis for calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.


(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for a gas-fired commercial packaged boiler is not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas manifold pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested (or, if not provided in the manual, in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4) of this chapter) to achieve the certified rated input (within two-percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to increase or decrease the gas inlet pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested (or, if not provided in the manual, in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4)) to achieve the certified rated input (within two-percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice if the unit is equipped with one. If the fuel input rate still is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the mean measured fuel input rate (either for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.


(iii) If the measured fuel input rate for an oil-fired commercial packaged boiler is not within two-percent of the certified rated input, the mean measured fuel input rate (either for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.


(2) *Models capable of producing both hot water and steam.* For a model of commercial packaged boiler that is capable of producing both hot water and steam, DOE may measure the thermal or combustion efficiency as applicable (see § 431.87 of this chapter) for steam and/or hot water modes. DOE will evaluate compliance based on the measured thermal or combustion efficiency in steam and hot water modes, independently.


(n) *Commercial water heating equipment other than residential-duty commercial water heaters*—(1) *Verification of fuel input rate.* The fuel input rate of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.106 of this chapter. The measured fuel input rate (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measured fuel input rate is within two percent of the certified rated input.


(i) If the certified rated input is found to be valid, then the certified rated input will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).


(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for gas-fired commercial water heating equipment is not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas outlet pressure within 10 percent of the value specified on the nameplate of the model of commercial water heating equipment being tested to achieve the certified rated input (within 2 percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to increase or decrease the gas supply pressure within the range specified on the nameplate of the model of commercial water heating equipment being tested. If the measured fuel input rate is still not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice, if the unit is equipped with one. If the measured fuel input rate still is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).


(iii) If the measured fuel input rate for oil-fired commercial water heating equipment is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).


(2) [Reserved]


(o) *Uninterruptible power supplies.* (1) To determine the uninterruptible power supply (UPS) architecture:


(i) When testing according to appendix Y to subpart B of part 430, perform the UPS architecture tests specified in the definitions of VI, VFD, and VFI in sections 2.27.1 through 2.27.3 of appendix Y to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.


(ii) When testing according to appendix Y1 to subpart B of part 430, perform the UPS architecture tests specified in the definitions of VI, VFD, and VFI in sections 2.28.1 through 2.28.3 of appendix Y1 to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.




(2) [Reserved]


(p) *Compressors*—(1) *Verification of full-load operating pressure.* (i) The maximum full-flow operating pressure of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix A to subpart T of part 431 of this chapter, where 90 percent of the value of full-load operating pressure certified by the manufacturer will be the starting point of the test method prior to increasing discharge pressure. The measured maximum full-flow operating pressure (either the single measured value for a single unit sample or the mean of the measured maximum full-flow operating pressures for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the certified rating for full-load operating pressure to determine if the certified rating is valid or not. The certified rating for full-load operating pressure will be considered valid only if the certified rating for full-load operating pressure is less than or equal to the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure and greater than or equal to the lesser of—


(A) 90 percent of the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure; or


(B) 10 psig less than the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure.


(ii) If the certified full-load operating pressure is found to be valid, then the certified value will be used as the full-load operating pressure and will be the basis for determination of full-load actual volume flow rate, pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure, specific power, and package isentropic efficiency.


(iii) If the certified full-load operating pressure is found to be invalid, then the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure will be used as the full-load operating pressure and will be the basis for determination of full-load actual volume flow rate, pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure, specific power, and package isentropic efficiency.


(2) *Verification of full-load actual volume flow rate.* The measured full-load actual volume flow rate will be measured, pursuant to the test requirements of appendix A to subpart T of part 431 of this chapter, at the full-load operating pressure determined in paragraph (p)(1) of this section. The certified full-load actual volume flow rate will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured full-load actual volume flow rate for a single unit sample or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample) are within the percentage of the certified full-load actual volume flow rate specified in Table 1 of this section:


(i) If the certified value of full-load actual volume flow rate is found to be valid, the full-load actual volume flow rate certified by the manufacturer will be used as the basis for determination of the applicable standard.


(ii) If the certified value of full-load actual volume flow rate is found to be invalid, the entire sample (one or multiple units) will be considered as failing the enforcement test.


(3) *Ancillary equipment.* Prior to testing each compressor, DOE will install any required ancillary equipment specified by the manufacturer in the certification report submitted pursuant to § 429.63(b).


(q) *Walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers.* Prior to October 31, 2023, the provisions in 10 CFR 429.134, revised as of January 1, 2022, are applicable. On and after October 31, 2023, the following provisions apply.(1) If DOE determines that a basic model of a panel, door, or refrigeration system for walk-in coolers or walk-in freezers fails to meet an applicable energy conservation standard, then the manufacturer of that basic model is responsible for the noncompliance. If DOE determines that a complete walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer or component thereof fails to meet an applicable energy conservation standard, then the manufacturer of that walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer is responsible for the noncompliance with the applicable standard, except that the manufacturer of a complete walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer is not responsible for the use of components that were certified and labeled (in accordance with DOE labeling requirements) as compliant by another party and later found to be noncompliant with the applicable standard(s).




(2) *Verification of refrigeration system net capacity.* The net capacity of the refrigeration system basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 431, subpart R, appendix C of this chapter for each unit tested on and after October 31, 2023, but before the compliance date of revised energy conservation standards for walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems. The net capacity of the refrigeration system basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 431, subpart R, appendix C1 of this chapter for each unit tested on and after the compliance date of revised energy conservation standards for walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of net capacity certified by the manufacturer. The certified net capacity will be considered valid only if the average measured net capacity is within plus or minus five percent of the certified net capacity.






(3) *Verification of door surface area.* The surface area of a display door or non-display door basic model will be measured pursuant to the requirements of 10 CFR part 431, subpart R, appendix A for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the surface area certified by the manufacturer. The certified surface area will be considered valid only if the average measured surface area is within plus or minus three percent of the certified surface area.


(i) If the certified surface area is found to be valid, the certified surface area will be used as the basis for calculating the maximum energy consumption (kWh/day) of the basic model.


(ii) If the certified surface area is found to be invalid, the average measured surface area will serve as the basis for calculating the maximum energy consumption (kWh/day) of the basic model.




(4) *Verification of door electricity-consuming device power.* For each basic model of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer door, DOE will calculate the door's energy consumption using the input power listed on the nameplate of each electricity-consuming device shipped with the door. If an electricity-consuming device shipped with a walk-in door does not have a nameplate or the nameplate does not list the device's input power, then DOE will use the device's rated input power included in the door's certification report. If the door is not certified or if the certification does not include a rated input power for an electricity-consuming device shipped with a walk-in door, DOE will use the measured input power. DOE also may validate the power listed on the nameplate or the rated input power by measuring it when energized using a power supply that provides power within the allowable voltage range listed on the component nameplate or the door nameplate, whichever is available. If the measured input power is more than 10 percent higher than the input power listed on the nameplate or the rated input power, as appropriate, then the measured input power shall be used in the door's energy consumption calculation.


(i) For electricity-consuming devices with controls, the maximum input wattage observed while energizing the device and activating the control shall be considered the measured input power. For anti-sweat heaters that are controlled based on humidity levels, the control may be activated by increasing relative humidity in the region of the controls without damaging the sensor. For lighting fixtures that are controlled with motion sensors, the control may be activated by simulating motion in the vicinity of the sensor. Other kinds of controls may be activated based on the functions of their sensor.


(ii) [Reserved]


(5) *Break-in period for refrigeration systems.* DOE will perform a compressor break-in period during assessment or enforcement testing using a duration specified by the manufacturer, not to exceed 20 hours, only if a break-in period duration is provided in the certification report.








(r) *Portable air conditioners. Verification of seasonally adjusted cooling capacity.* The seasonally adjusted cooling capacity will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of seasonally adjusted cooling capacity certified by the manufacturer. The certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity will be considered valid only if the average measured seasonally adjusted cooling capacity is within five percent of the certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity.


(1) If the certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity is found to be valid, the certified value will be used as the basis for determining the minimum allowed combined energy efficiency ratio for the basic model.


(2) If the certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured seasonally adjusted cooling capacity will be used to determine the minimum allowed combined energy efficiency ratio for the basic model.


(s) *Direct Expansion-Dedicated Outdoor Air Systems.* (1) If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 1 to § 429.43(a)(3)(i)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(i)(A)(*1*)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.


(2) If the manufacturer certified testing in accordance with Option 1 using default VERS exhaust air transfer ratio (EATR) values or Option 2 using default VERS effectiveness and EATR values, DOE may determine the integrated seasonal moisture removal efficiency 2 (ISMRE2) and/or the integrated seasonal coefficient of performance 2 (ISCOP2) using the default values or by conducting testing to determine VERS performance according to the DOE test procedure in appendix B to subpart F of part 431 of this chapter (with the minimum purge angle and zero pressure differential between supply and return air).


(3) If the manufacturer certified testing in accordance with Option 1 using VERS exhaust air transfer ratio (EATR) values or Option 2 using VERS effectiveness and EATR values determined using an analysis tool certified in accordance with the DOE test procedure in appendix B to subpart F of part 431 of this chapter, DOE may conduct its own testing to determine VERS performance in accordance with the DOE test procedure in appendix B to subpart F of part 431 of this chapter.


(i) DOE would use the values of VERS performance certified to DOE (*i.e.* EATR, sensible effectiveness, and latent effectiveness) as the basis for determining the ISMRE2 and/or ISCOP2 of the basic model only if, for Option 1, the certified EATR is found to be no more than one percentage point less than the mean of the measured values (*i.e.* the difference between the measured EATR and the certified EATR is no more than 0.01), or for Option 2, all certified values of sensible effectiveness are found to be no greater than 105 percent of the mean of the measured values (*i.e.* the certified effectiveness divided by the measured effectiveness is no greater than 1.05), all certified values of latent effectiveness are found to be no greater than 107 percent of the mean of the measured values, and the certified EATR is found to be no more than one percentage point less than the mean of the measured values.


(ii) If any of the conditions in paragraph (s)(2)(i) of this section do not hold true, then the mean of the measured values will be used as the basis for determining the ISMRE2 and/or ISCOP2 of the basic model.


(t) *Ceiling Fans*—(1) *Verification of blade span.* DOE will measure the blade span and round the measurement pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented blade span valid only if the rounded measurement(s) (either the rounded measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the rounded measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest inch) is the same as the represented blade span.


(i) If DOE determines that the represented blade span is valid, that blade span will be used as the basis for determining the product class and calculating the minimum allowable ceiling fan efficiency.


(ii) If DOE determines that the represented blade span is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured blade span(s) as the basis for determining the product class, and calculating the minimum allowable ceiling fan efficiency.


(2) *Verification of the distance between the ceiling and lowest point of fan blades.* DOE will measure the distance between the ceiling and lowest point of the fan blades and round the measurement pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented distance valid only if the rounded measurement(s) (either the measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest quarter inch) are the same as the represented distance.


(i) If DOE determines that the represented distance is valid, that distance will be used as the basis for determining the product class.


(ii) If DOE determines that the represented distance is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured distance(s) as the basis for determining the product class.


(3) *Verification of blade revolutions per minute (RPM) measured at high speed.* DOE will measure the blade RPM at high speed pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented blade RPM measured at high speed valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest RPM) are within 2 percent of the represented blade RPM at high speed.


(i) If DOE determines that the represented RPM is valid, that RPM will be used as the basis for determining the product class.


(ii) If DOE determines that the represented RPM is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured RPM(s) as the basis for determining the product class.


(4) *Verification of blade edge thickness.* DOE will measure the blade edge thickness and round the measurement pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented blade edge thickness valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest 0.01 inch) are the same as the represented blade edge thickness.


(i) If DOE determines that the represented blade edge thickness is valid, that blade edge thickness will be used for determining product class.


(ii) If DOE determines that the represented blade edge thickness is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured blade edge thickness(es) as the basis for determining the product class.


(u) *Battery chargers*—*verification of reported represented value obtained from testing in accordance with appendix Y1 of 10 CFR part 430 subpart B when using an external power supply.* If the battery charger basic model requires the use of an external power supply (“EPS”), and the manufacturer reported EPS is no longer available on the market, then DOE will test the battery charger with any compatible EPS that is minimally compliant with DOE's energy conservation standards for EPSs as prescribed in § 430.32(w) of this subchapter and that meets the battery charger input power criteria.


(v) *Variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 btu/h).* The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of IEER:


(1) *Specific components.* For each indoor unit model identified in the tested combination for which the model number certified in the STI does not fully specify the presence or absence of components listed at table 2 to 10 CFR 429.43(a)(3)(ii)(B), the following provision applies. If DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number of those components, then DOE may test a system that includes any individual indoor unit model that has a model number consistent with the certified indoor unit model number.


(2) *Manufacturer involvement in assessment or enforcement testing.* A manufacturer's representative will be allowed to support commissioning and witness assessment and/or enforcement testing for variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps, including during the controls verification procedures (CVPs) specified in paragraph (v)(3) of this section, with allowance for additional involvement as described in the following provisions.


(i) *Manufacturer involvement in CVP.* Control settings must be set by a member of the third-party laboratory consistent with the provisions in section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. Critical parameters must operate automatically from the system controls and must not be manually controlled or adjusted at any point by any party during the CVP.


(ii) *Manufacturer involvement in heating tests and IEER cooling tests.* All control settings other than critical parameters must be set by a member of the third-party laboratory consistent with the provisions of section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. In heating tests and IEER cooling tests, critical parameters may be manually controlled by a manufacturer's representative and initially set to their certified values as described in section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. During IEER cooling mode tests only, a manufacturer's representative may also make additional adjustments to the critical parameters as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. Setting and adjustment of critical parameters by a manufacturer's representative must be monitored by third-party laboratory personnel using a service tool. Other than critical parameter adjustments made in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, the manufacturer's representative must not make any other adjustments to the VRF multi-split system under test. If a manufacturer's representative is not present for testing, a member of the third-party laboratory must set and adjust critical parameters using the means of control provided by the manufacturer, as described in § 429.110(b)(1)(iv) for enforcement testing and § 429.104 for assessment testing.


(3) *Controls Verification Procedure (CVP).* This procedure validates the certified values of critical parameters for which positions may be manually set during the full- and part-load IEER cooling test conditions specified at appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. The CVP will only be conducted for a single system.


(i) *Conducting the CVP*—The CVP will be conducted at all of the four IEER cooling test conditions as specified in appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431; the CVP is not conducted at any heating test conditions. The CVP will first be performed at the full-load cooling condition before being conducted at part-load cooling conditions and must be conducted per Appendix C of AHRI 1230-2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4).


(ii) *Validating critical parameters*—At each load point, certified critical parameter values will be validated or invalidated according to Section C6 of AHRI 1230-2021 with the following amendments:


(A) The duration of the period used for validating certified critical parameter values must be whichever of the following is longer: three minutes, or the time period needed to obtain five sample readings while meeting the minimum data collection interval requirements of Table C2 of AHRI 1230-2021.


(B) If at least one measurement period with duration identified in paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section exists before t_OFF_ that has an average root-sum-square (“RSS”) points total (as defined in Section 3.27 of AHRI 1230-2021) over the measurement period that is less than or equal to 70 points, the certified critical parameter values are valid.


(C) If no measurement period with duration identified in paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section exists before t_OFF_ that has an average RSS points total over the measurement period that is less than or equal to 70 points, the certified critical parameter values are invalid.


(iii) *Determining critical parameters for use in steady-state IEER cooling tests.* If, following a CVP, IEER testing is conducted per appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, the following provisions apply:


(A) *Validated critical parameter settings.* At each load point, if certified critical parameter values are found to be valid according to the results of the CVP, initially set critical parameters to their certified values for the IEER test at the corresponding full- or part-load cooling condition. Perform additional adjustments to critical parameters as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431.


(B) *Invalidated critical parameter settings.* At each load point, if certified critical parameter values identified pursuant to paragraph (v)(3) of this section are found to be invalid according to the results of the CVP, determine alternate critical parameter values for use in the corresponding IEER test (as specified in appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431) as follows:


(*1*) Select the CVP measurement period—this period must have duration determined per paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section and must be the period where the RSS points total has a lower average value over the measurement period than over any other time period in the CVP of the same duration. If multiple periods exist with the same RSS points total, select the measurement period closest to but before the time that the first indoor unit switches to thermally inactive (denoted as “t_off_” in AHRI 1230-2021).


(*2*) Determine alternate critical parameters—calculate the average position for each critical parameter during the measurement period selected in paragraph (v)(3)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section. When initially setting critical parameters per section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, instead of using the certified critical parameter values, use the alternate critical parameter values as control inputs. The same initial alternate critical parameter values must be used for all systems in the assessment/enforcement sample (though critical parameter adjustments as needed to achieve target capacity or sensible heat ratio (SHR) limits are made independently for each tested system, per paragraph (v)(3)(iii)(B)(*3)* of this section.


(*3*) For each system, determine whether critical parameter adjustments are needed to achieve the target capacity or SHR limit for an IEER cooling test. Perform critical parameter adjustments independently on each system as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, with the following exceptions:


(*i*) Replace all references to “certified critical parameter values” with “alternate critical parameter values” as determined in paragraph (v)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.


(*ii*) Determine *CP*_Max_ from a CVP conducted at full-load cooling conditions as the maximum value observed during the R2 period as described in Section C.4.4.2.3 of AHRI 1230-2021. If multiple components corresponding to a single parameter are present, determine *CP*_Max_ at the point during the R2 period at which the average value across all components corresponding to that critical parameter is maximized.


(4) *Break-in period.* DOE will perform a compressor break-in period during assessment or enforcement testing using a duration specified by the manufacturer only if a break-in period duration is provided in the supplemental testing instructions.


(w) *Automatic commercial ice makers—verification of harvest rate.* The harvest rate will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of harvest rate certified by the manufacturer of the basic model. The certified harvest rate will be considered valid only if the average measured harvest rate is within five percent of the certified harvest rate.


(1) If the certified harvest rate is found to be valid, the certified harvest rate will be used as the basis for determining the maximum energy use and maximum condenser water use, if applicable, allowed for the basic model.


(2) If the certified harvest rate is found to be invalid, the average measured harvest rate of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the maximum energy use and maximum condenser water use, if applicable, allowed for the basic model.


(x) *Single package vertical air conditioners and heat pumps.* The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of IEER.


(1) *Verification of cooling capacity.* The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix G1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. The mean of the measurement(s) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.


(2) *Specific components.* If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 4 to § 429.43(a)(3)(iii)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.


(3) *Validation of outdoor ventilation airflow rate.* The outdoor ventilation airflow rate in cubic feet per minute (“CFM”) of the basic model will be measured in accordance with ASHRAE 41.2-1987 and Section 6.4 of ASHRAE 37-2009 (both incorporated by reference, see § 429.4). All references to the inlet shall be determined to mean the outdoor air inlet.


(i) The outdoor ventilation airflow rate validation shall be conducted at the conditions specified in Table 3 of AHRI 390-2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4), Full Load Standard Rating Capacity Test, Cooling, except for the following:


The outdoor ventilation airflow rate shall be determined at 0 in. H_2_O external static pressure with a tolerance of −0.00/+0.05 in. H_2_O.


(ii) When validating the outdoor ventilation airflow rate, the outdoor air inlet pressure shall be 0.00 in. H_2_O, with a tolerance of −0.00/+0.05 in. H_2_O when measured against the room ambient pressure.


(y) *Air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h and air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h.* The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of SEER2 and HSPF2 (as applicable).


(1) *Verification of cooling capacity.* The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the individual model (for single-package units) or individual combination (for split systems) will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431. The mean of the cooling capacity measurement(s) (either the measured cooling capacity for a single unit sample or the average of the measured cooling capacities for a multiple unit sample) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.


(2) *Verification of C*_D_* value.* (i) For models other than models of outdoor units with no match, if manufacturers certify that they did not conduct the optional tests to determine the C
c and/or C
h value for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the default value of C
c and/or C
h will be used as the basis for calculation of SEER2 or HSPF2 for each unit tested. If manufacturers certify that they conducted the optional tests to determine the value of C
c and/or C
h for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the value of C
c and/or C
h will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431 for each unit tested. The result for each unit tested (either the tested value or the default value, as selected according to the criteria for the cyclic test in section 4 of appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431) will be used as the basis for calculation of SEER2 or HSPF2 for that unit.


(ii) For models of outdoor units with no match, DOE will use the default value of Cc and/or Ch specified in the test procedure in appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431.


(z) *Dishwashers*—(1) *Determination of Most Energy-Intensive Cycle.* For any dishwasher basic model that does not meet the specified cleaning index threshold at a given soil load, the most energy-intensive cycle will be determined through testing as specified in sections 4.1.1 and 5.2 of appendix C2 to subpart B of part 430.


(2) *Detergent dosing requirement.* For any dishwasher basic model certified in accordance with the test procedure at appendix C1 to subpart B of part 430 of this chapter, DOE will conduct enforcement testing using the detergent dosing requirement that was used by the manufacturer as the basis for certifying compliance with the applicable energy conservation standard, in accordance with the applicable test procedure and certification reporting requirements.




(aa) *Computer room air conditioners.* The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to energy conservation standards denominated in terms of NSenCOP.


(1) *Verification of net sensible cooling capacity.* The net sensible cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431, subpart F, appendix E1. The mean of the net sensible cooling capacity measurement(s) will be used to determine the applicable energy conservation standards for purposes of compliance.


(2) *Specific components.* If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 5 to § 429.43(a)(3)(iv)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(iv)(A)(*1*)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.


(bb) *Room air conditioners.* The cooling capacity will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of cooling capacity certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified cooling capacity will be considered valid only if the measurement is within five percent of the certified cooling capacity.


(1) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be valid, the certified cooling capacity will be used as the basis for determining the minimum combined energy efficiency ratio allowed for the basic model.


(2) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured cooling capacity of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the minimum combined energy efficiency ratio allowed for the basic model.




(cc) *Pool heaters.* Beginning on May 30, 2028:


(1) *Verification of input capacity for gas-fired pool heaters.* The input capacity of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23(p) of this subchapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the represented value of input capacity certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified input capacity will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured input capacity for a single unit sample or the average of the measured input capacity for a multiple unit sample) is within two percent of the certified input capacity.


(i) If the representative value of input capacity is found to be valid, the certified input capacity will serve as the basis for determination of the applicable standard and the mean measured input capacity will be used as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.


(ii) If the representative value of input capacity is not within two percent of the certified input capacity, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the gas-fired pool heater being tested to achieve the certified input capacity (within two percent). If the input capacity is still not within two percent of the certified input capacity, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice. If the input capacity still is not within two percent of the certified input capacity, the mean measured input capacity (either for a single unit sample or the average for a multiple unit sample) determined from the tested units will serve as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.


(2) *Verification of active electrical power for electric pool heaters.* The active electrical power of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23 of this subchapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the represented value of active electrical power city certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified active electrical power will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured active electrical power for a single unit sample or the average of the measured active electrical power for a multiple unit sample) is within five percent of the certified active electrical power.


(i) If the representative value of active electrical power is found to be valid, the certified active electrical power will serve as the basis for determination of the applicable standard and the mean measured active electrical power will be used as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.


(ii) If the representative value of active electrical power is not within five percent of the certified active electrical power, the mean measured active electrical power (either for a single unit sample or the average for a multiple unit sample) determined from the tested units will serve as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.




(dd)* Water-Source Heat Pumps.* The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of IEER and ACOP.


(1) *Verification of Cooling Capacity.* The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix C1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. The mean of the measurements will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.


(2) *Specific Components.* If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 6 to § 429.43(a)(3)(v)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(v)(A)(*1*)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.




(ee) *Dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.* (1) To verify the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor variable speed capability, a test in accordance with section 5 of UL 1004-10:2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4) will be conducted.


(2) To verify that dedicated-purpose pool pump motor comply with the applicable freeze protection design requirements, a test in accordance with section 6 of UL 1004-10:2022 will be conducted.




(ff) *Commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers*—(1) *Verification of volume.* The volume will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the certified volume of the basic model. The certified volume will be considered valid only if the average measured volume is within five percent of the certified volume.


(i) If the certified volume is found to be valid, the certified volume will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.


(ii) If the certified volume is found to be invalid, the average measured volume of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.


(2) *Verification of total display area.* The total display area will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the certified total display area of the basic model. The certified total display area will be considered valid only if the average measured total display area is within five percent of the certified total display area.


(i) If the certified total display area is found to be valid, the certified total display area will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.


(ii) If the certified total display area is found to be invalid, the average measured total display area of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.


(3) *Determination of pull-down temperature application.* A classification of a basic model as pull-down temperature application will be considered valid only if a model meets the definition of “pull-down temperature application” specified in § 431.62 of this chapter as follows.


(i) 12-ounce beverage can temperatures will be measured for 12-ounce beverage cans loaded at the locations within the commercial refrigerator that are as close as possible to the locations that would be measured by test simulators according to the test procedure for commercial refrigerators specified in § 431.64 of this chapter.


(ii) The commercial refrigerator will be operated at ambient conditions consistent with those specified for commercial refrigerators in § 431.64 of this chapter and at the control setting necessary to achieve a stable integrated average temperature of 38 °F, prior to loading.


(iii) 12-ounce beverage cans to be fully loaded into the commercial refrigerator (with and without temperature measurements) will be maintained at 90 °F ±2 °F based on the average measured 12-ounce beverage can temperatures prior to loading into the commercial refrigerator.


(iv) The duration of pull-down (which must be 12 hours or less) will be determined starting from closing the commercial refrigerator door after completing the 12-ounce beverage can loading until the integrated average temperature reaches 38 °F ±2 °F.


(v) An average stable temperature of 38 °F will be determined by operating the commercial refrigerator for an additional 12 hours after initially reaching 38 °F ±2 °F with no changes to control settings, and determining an integrated average temperature of 38 °F ±2 °F at the end of the 12 hour stability period.







---

[N] [79 FR 22348, Apr. 21, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 40566, July 11, 2014; 80 FR 37148, June 30, 2015; 80 FR 45824, July 31, 2015; 80 FR 46760, Aug. 5, 2015; 80 FR 79669, Dec. 23, 2015; 81 FR 2646, Jan. 15, 2016; 81 FR 15426, Mar. 23, 2016; 81 FR 24009, Apr. 25, 2016; 81 FR 37055, June 8, 2016; 81 FR 38395, June 13, 2016; 81 FR 46791, July 18, 2016; 81 FR 79320, Nov. 10, 2016; 81 FR 96236, Dec. 29, 2016; 81 FR 89304, Dec. 9, 2016; 81 FR 89822, Dec. 12, 2016; 81 FR 95800, Dec. 28, 2016; 82 FR 1100, Jan. 4, 2017; 82 FR 36919, Aug. 7, 2017; 85 FR 1446, Jan. 10, 2020; 86 FR 56820, Oct. 12, 2021; 87 FR 33379, June 1, 2022; 87 FR 45197, July 27, 2022; 87 FR 50423, Aug. 16, 2022; 87 FR 55122, Sept. 8, 2022; 87 FR 57298, Sept. 19, 2022; 87 FR 63895, Oct. 20, 2022; 87 FR 65667, 65899, Nov. 1, 2022; 87 FR 75167, Dec. 7, 2022; 87 FR 77324, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 3276, Jan. 18, 2023; 88 FR 15537, Mar. 13, 2023; 88 FR 17975, Mar. 24, 2023; 88 FR 21838, Apr. 11, 2023; 88 FR 28837, May 4, 2023; 88 FR 40472, June 21, 2023; 88 FR 34362, May 26, 2023; 88 FR 34702, May 30, 2023; 88 FR 48357, July 27, 2023; 88 FR 66222, Sept. 26, 2023; 88 FR 67041, Sept. 28, 2023; 88 FR 84228, Dec. 4, 2023; 89 FR 37942, May 6, 2024; 89 FR 44035, May 20, 2024; 89 FR 82070, Oct. 9, 2024; 90 FR 6790, Jan. 21, 2025]






