# ยง 63.6620   What performance tests and other procedures must I use?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Tables 3 and 4 of this subpart that applies to you.


(b) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements that this subpart specifies in Table 4 to this subpart. If you own or operate a non-operational stationary RICE that is subject to performance testing, you do not need to start up the engine solely to conduct the performance test. Owners and operators of a non-operational engine can conduct the performance test when the engine is started up again. The test must be conducted at any load condition within plus or minus 10 percent of 100 percent load for the stationary RICE listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Non-emergency 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(2) New non-emergency 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than or equal to 250 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(3) New non-emergency 2SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(4) New non-emergency CI stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.


(e)(1) You must use Equation 1 of this section to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement:


(2) You must normalize the CO, THC, or formaldehyde concentrations at the inlet and outlet of the control device to a dry basis and to 15 percent oxygen, or an equivalent percent carbon dioxide (CO_2_). If pollutant concentrations are to be corrected to 15 percent oxygen and CO_2_ concentration is measured in lieu of oxygen concentration measurement, a CO_2_ correction factor is needed. Calculate the CO_2_ correction factor as described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Calculate the fuel-specific F_o_ value for the fuel burned during the test using values obtained from Method 19, Section 5.2, and the following equation:


(ii) Calculate the CO_2_ correction factor for correcting measurement data to 15 percent O_2_, as follows:


(iii) Calculate the CO, THC, and formaldehyde gas concentrations adjusted to 15 percent O_2_ using CO_2_ as follows:


(f) If you comply with the emission limitation to reduce CO and you are not using an oxidation catalyst, if you comply with the emission limitation to reduce formaldehyde and you are not using NSCR, or if you comply with the emission limitation to limit the concentration of formaldehyde in the stationary RICE exhaust and you are not using an oxidation catalyst or NSCR, you must petition the Administrator for operating limitations to be established during the initial performance test and continuously monitored thereafter; or for approval of no operating limitations. You must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by the Administrator.


(g) If you petition the Administrator for approval of operating limitations, your petition must include the information described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as operating limitations;


(2) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and HAP emissions, identifying how HAP emissions change with changes in these parameters, and how limitations on these parameters will serve to limit HAP emissions;


(3) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters which will establish the limits on these parameters in the operating limitations;


(4) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and


(5) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.


(h) If you petition the Administrator for approval of no operating limitations, your petition must include the information described in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) Identification of the parameters associated with operation of the stationary RICE and any emission control device which could change intentionally (*e.g.,* operator adjustment, automatic controller adjustment, etc.) or unintentionally (*e.g.,* wear and tear, error, etc.) on a routine basis or over time;


(2) A discussion of the relationship, if any, between changes in the parameters and changes in HAP emissions;


(3) For the parameters which could change in such a way as to increase HAP emissions, a discussion of whether establishing limitations on the parameters would serve to limit HAP emissions;


(4) For the parameters which could change in such a way as to increase HAP emissions, a discussion of how you could establish upper and/or lower values for the parameters which would establish limits on the parameters in operating limitations;


(5) For the parameters, a discussion identifying the methods you could use to measure them and the instruments you could use to monitor them, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of the methods and instruments;


(6) For the parameters, a discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you could use to monitor them; and


(7) A discussion of why, from your point of view, it is infeasible or unreasonable to adopt the parameters as operating limitations.


(i) The engine percent load during a performance test must be determined by documenting the calculations, assumptions, and measurement devices used to measure or estimate the percent load in a specific application. A written report of the average percent load determination must be included in the notification of compliance status. The following information must be included in the written report: the engine model number, the engine manufacturer, the year of purchase, the manufacturer's site-rated brake horsepower, the ambient temperature, pressure, and humidity during the performance test, and all assumptions that were made to estimate or calculate percent load during the performance test must be clearly explained. If measurement devices such as flow meters, kilowatt meters, beta analyzers, stain gauges, etc. are used, the model number of the measurement device, and an estimate of its accurate in percentage of true value must be provided.


(j) Beginning on February 26, 2025, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in ยง 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.





---

[N] [69 FR 33506, June 15, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 9676, Mar. 3, 2010; 78 FR 6702, Jan. 30, 2013; 89 FR 70516, Aug. 30, 2024]




