# § 1302.6   Appeals.

(a) If you wish to appeal a decision by OMB with regard to your request to access or amend a record in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1302.2 and 1302.5, you should submit the appeal in writing and, to the extent possible, include the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) Your appeal should contain a brief description of the record involved or copies of the correspondence from OMB in which the request to access or to amend was denied and also the reasons why you believe that access should be granted or the information amended, as relevant. Your appeal should refer to the information you furnished in support of your claim and the reasons set forth by OMB in its decision denying access or amendment, as required by §§ 1302.2 and 1302.5. In order to make the appeal process as meaningful as possible, you should set forth your disagreement in an understandable manner. In order to avoid the unnecessary retention of personal information, OMB reserves the right to dispose of the material concerning the request to access or amend a record if OMB receives no appeal in accordance with this section within 180 days of the sending by OMB of its decision upon an initial request. OMB may treat an appeal received after the 180-day period as an initial request to access or amend a record.


(c) You may send your appeal by mail or delivery to the Senior Agency Official for Privacy, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street NW, Room 9204, Washington, DC 20503 or by electronic means as described on OMB's privacy program web page: *www.whitehouse.gov/omb/privacy.* For the quickest possible handling, the requester should specify “Privacy Act Record Appeal” on the letter.


(d) The Senior Agency Official for Privacy will review a refusal to amend a record within 30 business days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays) from the date on which the individual requests such review, unless the OMB Director extends the 30-day period for good cause. If the Senior Agency Official for Privacy's decision does not grant in full the request, the notice of the decision will describe the steps you may take to obtain judicial review of such a decision.






