# ยง 146.6   Procedure for activation.

(a) *Application.* A zone operator, or where there is no operator, a grantee, shall make written application to the port director to obtain approval of activation of a zone or zone site. The area to be activated may be all or any portion of the zone approved by the Board. The application must include a description of all the zone sites covered by the application, any operation to be conducted therein, and a statement of the general character of the merchandise to be admitted. The port director may also require the operator or grantee to submit fingerprints on form FD 258 or electronically at the time of filing the application. If the operator is an individual, that individual's fingerprints may be required. If the operator or grantee is a business entity, fingerprints of all officers and managing officials may be required.


(b) *Supporting documents.* The application must be accompanied by the following:


(1) [Reserved]


(2) A blueprint of the area approved by the Board to be activated showing area measurements, including all openings and buildings; and all outlets, inlets, and pipelines to any tank for the storage of liquid or similar product, that portion of the blueprint certified to be correct by the operator of the tank;


(3) A gauge table, when appropriate, showing the capacity, in the appropriate unit, of any tank, certified to be correct by the operator of the tank;


(4) A procedures manual describing the inventory control and recordkeeping system that will be used in the zone, certified by the operator or grantee to meet the requirements of subpart B; and 


(5) The written concurrence of the grantee, when the operator applies for activation, in the requested zone activation.


(c) *Inquiry by port director.* As a condition of approval of the application, the port director may order an inquiry by a Customs officer into:


(1) The qualifications, character, and experience of an operator and/or grantee and their principal officers; and 


(2) The security, suitability, and fitness of the facility to receive merchandise in a zone status.


(d) *Decision of the port director.* The port director shall promptly notify the applicant in writing of his decision to approve or deny the application to activate the zone. If the application is denied, the notification will state the grounds for denial which need not be limited to those listed in ยง 146.82. The decision of the port director will be the final Customs administrative determination in the matter. On approval of the application, a Foreign Trade Zone Operator's Bond shall be executed on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions of ยง 113.73 of this chapter.


(e) *Activation.* Upon the port director's approval of the application and acceptance of the executed bond, the zone or zone site will be considered activated; and merchandise may be admitted to the zone. Execution of the bond by an operator does not lessen the liability of the grantee to comply with the Act and implementing regulations.



---

[N] [T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by T.D. 93-18, 58 FR 15773, Mar. 24, 1993; T.D. 95-99, 60 FR 62733, Dec. 7, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13676, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. 01-14, 66 FR 8767, Feb. 2, 2001]




