# § 62.600   Identification of plan.

(a) The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality submitted on June 17, 1997, and June 29, 1999, the State of Arizona's Section 111(d) Plan for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills.


(b) Control of landfill gas emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills, submitted by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality on July 24, 2018, to implement 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf. The Plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.


(c) After August 27, 2020, the substantive requirements of the municipal solid waste landfills state plan are contained in paragraph (b) of this section and owners and operators of municipal solid waste landfills in Arizona must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d)(1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies at the EPA Region 9 office, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, California 94105, 415-947-8000 or from the source listed in this paragraph (d). Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of Arizona, Arizona Secretary of State, 1700 W Washington St Floor 7, Phoenix, AZ 85007.


(i) Title 18 Arizona Administrative Code, Title 2. Department of Environmental Quality—Air Pollution Control:


(A) Article 7. Existing Stationary Source Performance Standards R18-2-731 Standards of Performance for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, effective August 10, 2018.


(B) Article 9. New Source Performance Standards R18-2-901 Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources, paragraph (80), effective August 10, 2018.


(ii) [Reserved]





---

[N] [85 FR 45329, July 28, 2020]








