# ยง 120.473   Procedures for determining individual minimum capital requirement.

(a) *Notice.* When SBA determines that an individual minimum capital requirement above that set forth in this subpart or other legal authority is necessary or appropriate for a particular SBLC, SBA will notify the SBLC in writing of the proposed individual minimum capital requirement, the date by which it should be reached and will provide an explanation of why the requirement proposed is considered necessary or appropriate.


(b) *SBLC response.* The SBLC may respond to the notice. The response should include any matters which the SBLC would have SBA consider in deciding whether individual minimum capital requirements should be established for the SBLC, what those capital requirements should be, and, if applicable, when they should be achieved. The response must be in writing and delivered to the AA/CA within 30 days after the date on which the SBLC received the notice. SBA may shorten the time for response when, in the opinion of SBA, the condition of the SBLC so warrants, provided that the SBLC is informed promptly of the new time period, or the SBLC consents to the shortening of its response time. In its discretion, SBA may extend the time period for good cause.


(c) *Failure to respond.* An SBLC that does not respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by SBA will have waived any objections to the proposed minimum capital requirement and the deadline for its achievement. Failure to respond will also constitute consent to the individual minimum capital requirement.


(d) *Decision.* After the close of the SBLC's response period, the AA/CA will decide, based on a review of SBA reasons for proposing the individual minimum capital requirement, the SBLC's response, and other information concerning the SBLC, whether the individual minimum capital requirement should be established for the SBLC and, if so, the requirement and the date it will become effective. The SBLC will be notified of the decision in writing. The notice will include an explanation of the decision; except for a decision not to establish an individual minimum capital requirement for the SBLC.


(e) *Submission of plan.* The decision may require the SBLC to develop and submit to SBA, within a time period specified, an acceptable plan to reach the individual minimum capital requirement by the date required.


(f) *Change in circumstances.* If, after SBA's decision in paragraph (d) of this section, there is a change in the circumstances affecting the SBLC's capital adequacy or its ability to reach the required individual minimum capital requirement by the specified date, either the SBLC or the AA/CA may propose to the other a change in the individual minimum capital requirement for the SBLC, the date when the individual minimum must be achieved, and/or the SBLC's plan (if applicable). The AA/CA may decline to consider proposals that are not based on a significant change in circumstances or are repetitive or frivolous. Pending a decision by the AA/CA on reconsideration, SBA's original decision and any plan required under that decision will continue in full force and effect.



---

[N] [73 FR 75516, Dec. 11, 2008]




