# § 23.4   Information collection.

(a) The information collection requirements contained in § 23.13 of this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.,* and assigned clearance number 1076-0111. 


(1) This information will be used to determine eligibility for payment of legal fees for indigent Indian parents and Indian custodians, involved in involuntary Indian child custody proceedings in state courts, who are not eligible for legal services through other mechanisms. Response to this request is required to obtain a benefit. 


(2) Public reporting for this information collection is estimated to average 10 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the information collection. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any aspect of this information collection should be mailed or hand-delivered to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Clearance Officer, Room 336-SIB, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Paperwork Reduction Project—1076-0111, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503. 


(b) The information collection requirements contained in §§ 23.21; 23.31; 23.46; 23.47, and 23.71 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and assigned clearance number 1076-0131. The information collection requirements under §§ 23.21 and 23.31 are collected in the form of ICWA grant applications from Indian tribes and off-reservation Indian organizations. A response to this request is required to obtain grant funds. The information collection requirements under § 23.46 are collected in compliance with applicable OMB circulars on financial management, internal and external controls and other fiscal assurances in accordance with existing Federal grant administration and reporting requirements. The grantee information collection requirements under § 23.47 are collected in the form of quarterly and annual program performance narrative reports and statistical data as required by the grant award document. Pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1951, the information collection requirement under § 23.71 is collected from state courts entering final adoption decrees for any Indian child and is provided to and maintained by the Secretary. 


(1) Public reporting for the information collection at §§ 23.21 and 23.31 is estimated to average 32 hours per response, including the time for reviewing the grant application instructions, gathering the necessary information and data, and completing the grant application. Public reporting for the information collection at §§ 23.46 and 23.47 is estimated to average a combined total of 16 annual hours per grantee, including the time for gathering the necessary information and data, and completing the required forms and reports. Public reporting for the information collection at § 23.71 is estimated to average 4 hours per response, including the time for obtaining and preparing the final adoption decree for transmittal to the Secretary. 


(2) Direct comments regarding any of these burden estimates or any aspect of these information collection requirements should be mailed or hand-delivered to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Clearance Officer, room 336-SIB, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20240; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Paperwork Reduction Project—1076-0131, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503. 




