# 25.703-2   Iran Sanctions Act.

(a) *Certification*—(1) *Certification relating to activities described in section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act.* As required by section 6(b)(1)(A) of the Iran Sanctions Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), unless an exception applies in accordance with paragraph (c) of this subsection, or a waiver is granted in accordance with 25.703-4, each offeror must certify that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activity for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. Such activities, which are described in detail in section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act, relate to the energy sector of Iran and development by Iran of weapons of mass destruction or other military capabilities.


(2) *Certification relating to transactions with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps.* As required by section 6(b)(1)(B) of the Iran Sanctions Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), unless an exception applies in accordance with paragraph (c) of this subsection, or a waiver is granted in accordance with 25.703-4, each offeror must certify that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any significant transaction (*i.e.,* a transaction that exceeds $10,000) with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at *https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/default.aspx*).


(b) *Remedies.* Upon the determination of a false certification under paragraph (a) of this section, the agency shall take one or more of the following actions:


(1) The contracting officer terminates the contract in accordance with procedures in part 49, or for commercial products and commercial services,  see 12.403.


(2) The suspending and debarring official suspends the contractor in accordance with the procedures in subpart 9.4.


(3) The suspending and debarring official debars the contractor for a period of at least two years in accordance with the procedures in subpart 9.4.


(c) *Exception for trade agreements.* The certification requirements of paragraph (a) of this subsection do not apply if the acquisition is subject to trade agreements and the offeror certifies that all the offered products are designated country end products or designated country construction material (see subpart 25.4).



---

[N] [77 FR 73519, Dec. 10, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 38298, July 2, 2015; 83 FR 42573, Aug. 22, 2018; 85 FR 40067, July 2, 2020; 86 FR 61028, Nov. 4, 2021; 90 FR 516, Jan. 3, 2025]




