# § 670.27   Special directives.

(a) *General.* The Deputy Administrator may issue a special directive under this part to one or more named recipients for the following reasons—


(1) The Deputy Administrator has reason to believe that a recipient is engaging in conduct, or there is evidence of a pattern or practice of a recipient's conduct, in violation of the Public Transportation Safety Program or any regulation or directive issued under those laws for which the Administrator exercises enforcement authority for safety;


(2) The Deputy Administrator determines that an unsafe condition or practice, or a combination of unsafe conditions and practices exists such that there is a substantial risk of death or personal injury, or damage to property or equipment; or


(3) For any other purpose where the Deputy Administrator determines that the public interest requires the avoidance or mitigation of a hazard or risk through immediate compliance.


(b) *Effective date.* A special directive is effective upon notice provided by the Deputy Administrator under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Notice.* The Deputy Administrator will provide notice to a recipient that is subject to a special directive. The Deputy Administrator may initially provide notice through telephonic or electronic communication; however, written notice will be served by personal service or by U.S. mail following telephonic or electronic communication. Notice will include the following information, at minimum—


(1) The name of the recipient or recipients to which the directive applies;


(2) A reference to the authority under which the directive is being issued; and


(3) A statement of the purpose of the issuance of the directive, including a description of the subjects or issues involved, a statement of facts upon which the notice is being issued, a statement of the remedial actions being sought, and the date by which such remedial actions must be taken.


(d) *Petition for reconsideration.* Within thirty (30) days of service of a notice issued under paragraph (c) of this section, a recipient may file a petition for reconsideration with the Administrator. Unless explicitly stayed or modified by the Administrator, a special directive will remain in effect and must be observed pending review of a petition for reconsideration. Any such petition:


(1) Must be in writing and signed by a recipient's Accountable Executive or equivalent entity;


(2) Must include a brief explanation of why the recipient believes the special directive should not apply to it or why compliance with the special directive is not possible, is not practicable, is unreasonable, or is not in the public interest; and


(3) May include relevant information regarding the factual basis upon which the special directive was issued, information in response to any alleged violation or in mitigation thereof, recommend alternative means of compliance for consideration, and any other information deemed appropriate by the recipient.


(e) *Request for extension.* Upon written request, the Administrator may extend the time for filing a request for reconsideration for good cause shown.


(f) *Filing a petition for reconsideration.* A petition must be submitted to the Office of the Administrator, Federal Transit Administration, using one of the following methods—


(1) Email to FTA, sent to an email address provided in the notice of special directive;


(2) Facsimile to FTA at 202-366-9854; or


(3) Mail to FTA at: FTA, Office of the Administrator, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(g) *Processing of petitions for reconsideration*—(1) *General.* Each petition received under this section will be reviewed and disposed of by the Administrator no later than ninety days (90) after receipt of the petition. No hearing, argument or other proceeding will be held directly on a petition before its disposition under this section.


(2) *Grants.* If the Administrator determines the petition contains adequate justification, he or she may grant the petition, in whole or in part.


(3) *Denials.* If the Administrator determines the petition does not justify modifying, rescinding or revoking the directive, in whole or in part, he or she may deny the petition.


(4) *Notification.* The Administrator will issue notification to a recipient of his or her decision.


(h) *Judicial review.* A recipient may seek judicial review in an appropriate United States District Court after a final action of FTA under this section, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 701-706.




