# ยง 1005.717   Administering escrow accounts.

(a) The Servicer shall not use escrow funds for any purpose other than that for which they were received. It shall segregate escrow commitment deposits, work completion deposits, and all periodic payments received on account of leasehold rents, taxes, assessments, monthly payments of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, and insurance charges or premiums, and shall deposit such funds with one or more financial institutions in a special account or accounts that are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration. Leasehold rents on Trust Lands may require additional escrow segregation by Servicers, as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.


(b) It is the Servicer's responsibility to ensure timely escrow disbursements and their proper application. Servicers must establish controls to ensure that accounts payable from the escrow account or the information needed to pay such accounts payable is obtained on a timely basis. Penalties for late payments for accounts payable from the escrow account must not be charged to the Borrower or HUD unless the Servicer can show that the penalty was the direct result of the Borrower's error or omission. The Servicer shall further comply with applicable Tribal, Federal, or State laws, including method of calculations related to escrow, the methods of collection and accounting, and the payment of the accounts payable for which the money has been escrowed.


(c) The Servicer shall not initiate foreclosure for escrow account shortfalls resulting from advances made pursuant to this section.


(d) When a Loan Guarantee Certificate is terminated voluntarily or due to Borrower's prepayment, in total satisfaction of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, amounts in the escrow account designated to pay any HUD required program fees shall be remitted to HUD in a form approved by HUD at the time of the required reporting related to the voluntary termination or prepayment. When a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is prepaid in full, amounts held in escrow for taxes, hazard insurance, or rents, if applicable, that are not yet due or incurred, shall be released to the Borrower.






