# ยง 228.104   Consideration of requests to modify, waive, or grant exceptions to lease stipulations.

(a) *General.* An operator submitting a surface use plan of operations may request the authorized Forest officer to authorize the Bureau of Land Management to modify (permanently change), waive (permanently remove), or grant an exception (case-by-case exemption) to a stipulation included in a lease at the direction of the Forest Service. The person making the request is encouraged to submit any information which might assist the authorized Forest officer in making a decision.


(b) *Review.* The authorized Forest officer shall review any information submitted in support of the request and any other pertinent information.


(1) As part of the review, consistent with 30 U.S.C. 226 (f)-(g), the authorized Forest officer shall ensure compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331 *et seq.*) and any other applicable laws, and shall ensure preparation of any appropriate environmental documents.


(2) The authorized Forest officer may authorize the Bureau of Land Management to modify, waive, or grant an exception to a stipulation if:


(i) The action would be consistent with applicable Federal laws;


(ii) The action would be consistent with the current forest land and resource management plan; 


(iii) The management objectives which led the Forest Service to require the inclusion of the stipulation in the lease can be met without restricting operations in the manner provided for by the stipulation given the change in the present condition of the surface resources involved, or given the nature, location, timing, or design of the proposed operations; and


(iv) The action is acceptable to the authorized Forest officer based upon a review of the environmental consequences.


(c) *Other agency stipulations.* If a stipulation was included in a lease by the Forest Service at the request of another agency, the authorized Forest officer shall consult with that agency prior to authorizing modification, waiver, or exception.


(d) *Notice of decision.* (1) When the review of a stipulation modification, waiver, or exception request has been completed and the authorized Forest officer has reached a decision, the authorized Forest officer shall promptly notify the operator and the appropriate Bureau of Land Management office, in writing, of the decision to grant, or grant with additional conditions, or deny the request. 


(2) Any decision to modify, waive, or grant an exception to a lease stipulation shall be subject to administrative appeal only in conjunction with an appeal of a decision on a surface use plan of operation or supplemental surface use plan of operation.




