# § 301.89-5   Movement of regulated articles from regulated areas.

(a) Any regulated article may be moved from a regulated area into or through an area that is not regulated only if moved under the following conditions:


(1) With a certificate or limited permit issued and attached in accordance with §§ 301.89-6 and 301.89-10;


(2) Without a certificate or limited permit, provided that each of the following conditions is met:


(i) The regulated article was moved into the regulated area from an area that is not regulated;


(ii) The point of origin is indicated on a waybill accompanying the regulated article;


(iii) The regulated article is moved through the regulated area without stopping, or has been stored, packed, or handled at locations approved by an inspector as not posing a risk of contamination with Karnal bunt, or has been treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter while in or moving through any regulated area; and


(iv) The article has not been combined or commingled with other articles so as to lose its individual identity;


(b) When an inspector has probable cause to believe a person or means of conveyance is moving a regulated article, the inspector is authorized to stop the person or means of conveyance to determine whether a regulated article is present and to inspect the regulated article. Articles found to be infected by an inspector, and articles not in compliance with the regulations in this subpart, may be seized, quarantined, treated, subjected to other remedial measures, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of. Any treatments will be in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.



---

[N] [61 FR 52207, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 23627, May 1, 1997; 63 FR 50751, Sept. 23, 1998; 69 FR 8096, Feb. 23, 2004; 75 FR 4241, Jan. 26, 2010; 75 FR 68945, Nov. 10, 2010]




