# § 1192.73   Doorways.

(a) *Clear width.* (1) All passenger doorways on vehicle sides shall have minimum clear openings of 32 inches when open. 


(2) If doorways connecting adjoining cars in a multi-car train are provided, and if such doorway is connected by an aisle with a minimum clear width of 30 inches to one or more spaces where wheelchair or mobility aid users can be accommodated, then such doorway shall have a minimum clear opening of 30 inches to permit wheelchair and mobility aid users to be evacuated to an adjoining vehicle in an emergency. 


(b) *Signage.* The International Symbol of Accessibility shall be displayed on the exterior of each vehicle operating on an accessible light rail system unless all vehicles are accessible and are not marked by the access symbol (See Fig. 6). 


(c) *Signals.* Auditory and visual warning signals shall be provided to alert passengers of closing doors. 


(d) *Coordination with boarding platform*—(1) *Requirements.* The design of level-entry vehicles shall be coordinated with the boarding platform or mini-high platform design so that the horizontal gap between a vehicle at rest and the platform shall be no greater than 3 inches and the height of the vehicle floor shall be within plus or minus 
5/8 inch of the platform height. Vertical alignment may be accomplished by vehicle air suspension, automatic ramps or lifts, or any combination. 


(2) *Exception.* New vehicles operating in existing stations may have a floor height within plus or minus 1
1/2 inches of the platform height. At key stations, the horizontal gap between at least one door of each such vehicle and the platform shall be no greater than 3 inches. 


(3) *Exception.* Retrofitted vehicles shall be coordinated with the platform in new and key stations such that the horizontal gap shall be no greater than 4 inches and the height of the vehicle floor, under 50% passenger load, shall be within plus or minus 2 inches of the platform height. 


(4) *Exception.* Where it is not operationally or structurally practicable to meet the horizontal or vertical requirements of paragraphs (d) (1), (2) or (3) of this section, platform or vehicle devices complying with § 1192.83(b) or platform or vehicle mounted ramps or bridge plates complying with § 1192.83(c) shall be provided. 




