# ยง 192.383   Excess flow valve installation.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Branched service line* means a gas service line that begins at the existing service line or is installed concurrently with the primary service line but serves a separate residence.


*Replaced service line* means a gas service line where the fitting that connects the service line to the main is replaced or the piping connected to this fitting is replaced.


*Service line serving single-family residence* means a gas service line that begins at the fitting that connects the service line to the main and serves only one single-family residence (SFR).


(b) *Installation required.* An EFV installation must comply with the performance standards in ยง 192.381. After April 14, 2017, each operator must install an EFV on any new or replaced service line serving the following types of services before the line is activated:


(1) A single service line to one SFR;


(2) A branched service line to a SFR installed concurrently with the primary SFR service line (*i.e.,* a single EFV may be installed to protect both service lines);


(3) A branched service line to a SFR installed off a previously installed SFR service line that does not contain an EFV;


(4) Multifamily residences with known customer loads not exceeding 1,000 SCFH per service, at time of service installation based on installed meter capacity, and


(5) A single, small commercial customer served by a single service line with a known customer load not exceeding 1,000 SCFH, at the time of meter installation, based on installed meter capacity.


(c) *Exceptions to excess flow valve installation requirement.* An operator need not install an excess flow valve if one or more of the following conditions are present:


(1) The service line does not operate at a pressure of 10 psig or greater throughout the year;


(2) The operator has prior experience with contaminants in the gas stream that could interfere with the EFV's operation or cause loss of service to a customer;


(3) An EFV could interfere with necessary operation or maintenance activities, such as blowing liquids from the line; or


(4) An EFV meeting the performance standards in ยง 192.381 is not commercially available to the operator.


(d) *Customer's right to request an EFV.* Existing service line customers who desire an EFV on service lines not exceeding 1,000 SCFH and who do not qualify for one of the exceptions in paragraph (c) of this section may request an EFV to be installed on their service lines. If an eligible service line customer requests an EFV installation, an operator must install the EFV at a mutually agreeable date. The operator's rate-setter determines how and to whom the costs of the requested EFVs are distributed.


(e) *Operator notification of customers concerning EFV installation.* Operators must notify customers of their right to request an EFV in the following manner:


(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (c) and (e)(5) of this section, each operator must provide written or electronic notification to customers of their right to request the installation of an EFV. Electronic notification can include emails, Web site postings, and e-billing notices.


(2) The notification must include an explanation for the service line customer of the potential safety benefits that may be derived from installing an EFV. The explanation must include information that an EFV is designed to shut off the flow of natural gas automatically if the service line breaks.


(3) The notification must include a description of EFV installation and replacement costs. The notice must alert the customer that the costs for maintaining and replacing an EFV may later be incurred, and what those costs will be to the extent known.


(4) The notification must indicate that if a service line customer requests installation of an EFV and the load does not exceed 1,000 SCFH and the conditions of paragraph (c) are not present, the operator must install an EFV at a mutually agreeable date.


(5) Operators of master-meter systems and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) operators with fewer than 100 customers may continuously post a general notification in a prominent location frequented by customers.


(f) *Operator evidence of customer notification.* An operator must make a copy of the notice or notices currently in use available during PHMSA inspections or State inspections conducted under a pipeline safety program certified or approved by PHMSA under 49 U.S.C. 60105 or 60106.


(g) *Reporting.* Except for operators of master-meter systems and LPG operators with fewer than 100 customers, each operator must report the EFV measures detailed in the annual report required by ยง 191.11.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-121, 81 FR 71001, Oct. 14, 2016; 81 FR 72739, Oct. 21, 2016]




