# § 990.42   Appeals under a State or Tribal hemp production plan.

(a) *Appealing a State or Tribal hemp production plan application.* A State or Indian Tribe may appeal the denial of a proposed State or Tribal hemp production plan by the USDA to the AMS Administrator.


(1) If the AMS Administrator grants a State or Indian Tribe's appeal of a denied hemp plan application, the proposed State or Tribal hemp production plan shall be established as proposed.


(2) If the AMS Administrator denies an appeal, the proposed State or Tribal hemp production plan shall not be approved. Prospective producers located in the State or territory of the Indian Tribe may apply for hemp licenses under the terms of the USDA plan. The State or Indian Tribe may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding be initiated within 30 days to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.


(b) *Appealing the suspension or termination of a State or Tribal hemp production plan.* A State or Tribe may appeal the revocation by USDA of an approved State or Tribal hemp production plan.


(1) If the AMS Administrator grants a State or Indian Tribe's appeal of a State or Tribal hemp production plan suspension or revocation, the associated hemp production plan will remain in place and effective.


(2) If the AMS Administrator denies an appeal, the State or Tribal hemp production plan will be suspended or revoked as applicable. Producers located in that State or territory of the Indian Tribe may continue to produce hemp under their State or Tribal license until the end the calendar year in which the State or Tribal plan's disapproval was effective or when the State or Tribal license expires, whichever is earlier. Producers may apply for a USDA license under subpart C of this part unless hemp production is otherwise prohibited by the State or Indian Tribe. The State or Indian Tribe may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding be initiated to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.


(c) *Filing period.* The appeal of a State or Tribal hemp production plan suspension or revocation must be filed within the time-period provided in the letter of notification or within 30 business days from receipt of the notification, whichever occurs later. The appeal will be considered “filed” on the date received by the AMS Administrator. The decision to deny a State or Tribal plan application or suspend or revoke approval of a plan, is final unless the decision is appealed in a timely manner.


(d) *Where to file.* Appeals to the Administrator must be filed in the manner as determined by AMS.


(e) *What to include in appeal.* All appeals must include a copy of the adverse decision and a statement of the appellant's reasons supporting why the decision was not proper or made in accordance with applicable program regulations in this part, policies, or procedures.




