# § 160.110   Frozen eggs.

(a) Frozen eggs, frozen whole eggs, frozen mixed eggs is the food prepared by freezing liquid eggs that conform to § 160.115, with such precautions that the finished food is free of viable *Salmonella* microorganisms.


(b) Monosodium phosphate or monopotassium phosphate may be added either directly or in a water carrier, but the amount added does not exceed 0.5 percent of the weight of the frozen eggs. If a water carrier is used, it shall contain not less than 50 percent by weight of such monosodium phosphate or monopotassium phosphate.


(c) When one of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement “Monosodium phosphate (or monopotassium phosphate) added to preserve color”, or, in case the optional ingredient used is added in a water carrier, the statement shall be “Monosodium phosphate (or monopotassium phosphate), with __ percent water as a carrier, added to preserve color”, the blank being filled in to show the percent by weight of water used in proportion to the weight of the finished food. The statement declaring the optional ingredient used shall appear on the principal display panel or panels with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render it likely to be read and understood under customary conditions of purchase.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14462, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 2883, Jan. 6, 1993]




