# § 178.975   Top lift test.

(a) *General.* The top lift test must be conducted for the qualification of all of Large Packagings design types to be lifted from the top or, for flexible Large Packagings, from the side.


(b) *Special preparation for the top lift test.* (1) Metal and rigid plastic Large Packagings design types must be loaded to twice its maximum permissible gross mass.


(2) Flexible Large Packaging design types must be filled to six times the maximum permissible gross mass, the load being evenly distributed.


(c) *Test method.* (1) A Large Packaging must be lifted in the manner for which it is designed until clear of the floor and maintained in that position for a period of five minutes.


(2) Rigid plastic Large Packaging design types must be:


(i) Lifted by each pair of diagonally opposite lifting devices, so that the hoisting forces are applied vertically for a period of five minutes; and


(ii) Lifted by each pair of diagonally opposite lifting devices so that the hoisting forces are applied towards the center at 45° to the vertical, for a period of five minutes.


(3) If not tested as indicated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a flexible Large Packaging design type must be tested as follows:


(i) Fill the flexible Large Packaging to 95% full with a material representative of the product to be shipped.


(ii) Suspend the flexible Large Packaging by its lifting devices.


(iii) Apply a constant downward force through a specially designed platen. The platen will be a minimum of 60 percent and a maximum of 80 percent of the cross sectional surface area of the flexible Large Packaging.


(iv) The combination of the mass of the filled flexible Large Packaging and the force applied through the platen must be a minimum of six times the maximum net mass of the flexible Large Packaging. The test must be conducted for a period of five minutes.


(v) Other equally effective methods of top lift testing and preparation may be used with approval of the Associate Administrator.


(d) *Criterion for passing the test.* For all Large Packagings design types designed to be lifted from the top, there may be no permanent deformation which renders the Large Packagings unsafe for transport and no loss of contents.




