# § 21.8370   Authorization of transportation services.

(a) *General.* VA authorizes transportation services necessary for an eligible child to pursue a vocational training program. The sections in subpart A of this part that are referred to in this paragraph apply to children under this subpart in a manner comparable to the way they apply to veterans under the 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 program. Transportation services include: 


(1) Transportation for evaluation or counseling under § 21.376; 


(2) Intraregional travel under § 21.370 (except that assurance that the child meets all basic requirements for induction into training will be determined without regard to the provisions of § 21.282) and interregional travel under § 21.372; 


(3) Special transportation allowance under § 21.154; and 


(4) Commuting to and from training and while seeking employment, subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. 


(b) *Reimbursement.* For transportation services that VA authorizes, VA will normally pay in arrears and in the same manner as tuition, fees, and other services under this program. 


(c) *Payment for commuting expenses for training and seeking employment.* VA may pay for transportation during the period of vocational training and the first 3 months the child receives employment services. VA may reimburse the child's costs, not to exceed $200 per month, of commuting to and from training and seeking employment if he or she requests this assistance and VA determines, after careful examination of the child's situation and subject to the limitations in paragraph (d) of this section, that the child would be unable to pursue training or employment without this assistance. VA may: 


(1) Reimburse the facility at which the child is training if the facility provided transportation or related services; or 


(2) Reimburse the child for his or her actual commuting expense if the child paid for the transportation. 


(d) *Limitations.* Payment of commuting expenses under paragraph (a)(4) of this section may not be made for any period when the child: 


(1) Is gainfully employed; 


(2) Is eligible for, and entitled to, payment of commuting costs through other VA and non-VA programs; or 


(3) Can commute to school with family, friends, or fellow students. 


(e) *Documentation.* VA must receive supportive documentation with each request for reimbursement. The individualized written plan of vocational rehabilitation will specify whether VA will pay monthly or at a longer interval. 


(f) *Nonduplication.* If a child is eligible for reimbursement of transportation services both under this section and under § 21.154, the child will receive only the benefit under § 21.154. 


