# § 760.903   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in parts 718 and 1400 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.


*Adult beef bull* means a male beef bovine animal that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes before it died.


*Adult beef cow* means a female beef bovine animal that had delivered one or more offspring before dying. A first-time bred beef heifer is also considered an adult beef cow if it was pregnant at the time it died.


*Adult buffalo and beefalo bull* means a male animal of those breeds that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes before it died.


*Adult buffalo and beefalo cow* means a female animal of those breeds that had delivered one or more offspring before dying. A first-time bred buffalo or beefalo heifer is also considered an adult buffalo or beefalo cow if it was pregnant at the time it died.


*Adult dairy bull* means a male dairy breed bovine animal at least 2 years old used primarily for breeding dairy cows before it died.


*Adult dairy cow* means a female bovine animal used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption that had delivered one or more offspring before dying. A first-time bred dairy heifer is also considered an adult dairy cow if it was pregnant at the time it died.


*Agricultural operation* means a farming operation.


*Application* means the “2005-2007 Livestock Indemnity Program” form.


*Application period* means the date established by the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs for participants to apply for program benefits.


*Buck* means a male goat.


*Catfish* means catfish grown as food for human consumption by a commercial operator on private property in water in a controlled environment.


*Commercial use* means used in the operation of a business activity engaged in as a means of livelihood for profit by the eligible producer to apply for program benefits.


*Contract* means, with respect to contracts for the handling of livestock, a written agreement between a livestock owner and another individual or entity setting the specific terms, conditions, and obligations of the parties involved regarding the production of livestock or livestock products.


*Controlled environment* means an environment in which everything that can practicably be controlled by the participant with structures, facilities, and growing media (including, but not limited to, water and nutrients) and was in fact controlled by the participant at the time of the disaster.


*Crawfish* means crawfish grown as food for human consumption by a commercial operator on private property in water in a controlled environment.


*Deputy Administrator* means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Farm Service Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture or the designee.


*Doe* means a female goat.


*Equine animal* means a domesticated horse, mule, or donkey.


*Ewe* means a female sheep.


*Farming operation* means a business enterprise engaged in producing agricultural products.


*Goat* means a domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus *Capra,* including Angora goats. Goats are further defined by sex (bucks and does) and age (kids).


*Kid* means a goat less than 1 year old.


*Lamb* means a sheep less than 1 year old.


*Livestock owner* means one having legal ownership of the livestock for which benefits are being requested on the day such livestock died due to an eligible disaster.


*Non-adult beef cattle* means a bovine that does not meet the definition of adult beef cow or bull. Non-adult beef cattle are further delineated by weight categories of less than 400 pounds, and 400 pounds or more at the time they died.


*Non-adult buffalo or beefalo* means an animal of those breeds that does not meet the definition of adult buffalo/beefalo cow or bull. Non-adult buffalo or beefalo are further delineated by weight categories of less than 400 pounds, and 400 pounds or more at the time of death.


*Non-adult dairy cattle* means a bovine livestock, of a breed used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption, that do not meet the definition of adult dairy cow or bull. Non-adult dairy cattle are further delineated by weight categories of less than 400 pounds, and 400 pounds or more at the time they died.


*Poultry* means domesticated chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese. Poultry are further delineated by sex, age, and purpose of production as determined by FSA.


*Ram* means a male sheep.


*Sheep* means a domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus *Ovis.* Sheep are further defined by sex (rams and ewes) and age (lambs).


*Swine* means a domesticated omnivorous pig, hog, and boar. Swine are further delineated by sex and weight as determined by FSA.




