# § 73.624   Television broadcast stations.

(a) Television broadcast stations are assigned channels 6 MHz wide.


(b) Minimum programming requirements. The TV service that is provided pursuant to this paragraph (b) must have a resolution of at least 480i (vertical resolution of 480 lines, interlaced).


(1) TV licensees or permittees that broadcast in ATSC 1.0 (using the transmission standard in 73.682(d)) shall transmit at least one free over the air video program signal at no direct charge to viewers.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) TV licensees or permittees that choose to broadcast an ATSC 3.0 signal (using the Next Gen TV transmission standard in § 73.682(f)) shall transmit at least one free over the air video programming stream on that signal that requires at most the signal threshold of a comparable received TV signal. TV licensees or permittees that choose to broadcast an ATSC 3.0 signal (using the Next Gen TV transmission standard in § 73.682(f)) shall also simulcast the primary video programming stream on its ATSC 3.0 signal by broadcasting an ATSC 1.0 signal (using the TV transmission standard in § 73.682(d)) from another broadcast television facility within its local market in accordance with the local simulcasting requirement in § 73.3801 and § 73.6029 and § 74.782 of this chapter.


(c) Provided that TV broadcast stations comply with paragraph (b) of this section, TV broadcast stations are permitted to offer services of any nature, consistent with the public interest, convenience, and necessity, on an ancillary or supplementary basis. The kinds of services that may be provided include, but are not limited to computer software distribution, data transmissions, teletext, interactive materials, aural messages, paging services, audio signals, subscription video, and any other services that do not derogate TV broadcast stations' obligations under paragraph (b) of this section. Such services may be provided on a broadcast, point-to-point or point-to-multipoint basis, provided, however, that any video broadcast signal provided at no direct charge to viewers shall not be considered ancillary or supplementary.


(1) TV licensees that provide ancillary or supplementary services that are analogous to other services subject to regulation by the Commission must comply with the Commission regulations that apply to those services, provided, however, that no ancillary or supplementary service shall have any rights to carriage under §§ 614 or 615 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or be deemed a multichannel video programming distributor for purposes of section 628 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.


(2) In all arrangements entered into with outside parties affecting service operation, the TV licensee or permittee must retain control over all material transmitted in a broadcast mode via the station's facilities, with the right to reject any material in the sole judgement of the permittee or licensee. The license or permittee is also responsible for all aspects of technical operation involving such telecommunications services.


(3) In any application for renewal of a broadcast license for a television station that provides ancillary or supplementary services, a licensee shall establish that all of its program services are in the public interest. Any violation of the Commission's rules applicable to ancillary or supplementary services will reflect on the licensee's qualifications for renewal of its license.


(d) through (f) [Reserved]


(g) Commercial TV licensees and permittees, and low power television, TV translator, and Class A licensees and permittees, must annually remit a fee of 5 percent of the gross revenues derived from all ancillary and supplementary services, as defined by paragraph (c) of this section, which are feeable, as defined in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Noncommercial TV licensees and permittees must annually remit a fee of 5 percent of the gross revenues derived from all ancillary and supplementary services, as defined by paragraph (c) of this section, which are feeable, as defined in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, except that such licensees and permittees must annually remit a fee of 2.5 percent of the gross revenues from such ancillary or supplementary services which are nonprofit, noncommercial, and educational.


(1)(i) All ancillary or supplementary services for which payment of a subscription fee or charge is required in order to receive the service are feeable. The fee required by this provision shall be imposed on any and all revenues from such services, including revenues derived from subscription fees and from any commercial advertisements transmitted on the service.


(ii) Any ancillary or supplementary service for which no payment is required from consumers in order to receive the service is feeable if the TV licensee directly or indirectly receives compensation from a third party in return for the transmission of material provided by that third party (other than commercial advertisements used to support broadcasting for which a subscription fee is not required). The fee required by this provision shall be imposed on any and all revenues from such services, other than revenues received from a third party in return for the transmission of commercial advertisements used to support broadcasting for which a subscription fee is not required.


(2) *Payment of fees.* (i) Each December 1, all commercial and noncommercial TV licensees and permittees that provided feeable ancillary or supplementary services as defined in this section at any point during the 12-month period ending on the preceding September 30 will electronically report, for the applicable period:


(A) A brief description of the feeable ancillary or supplementary services provided;


(B) Gross revenues received from all feeable ancillary and supplementary services provided during the applicable period; and


(C) The amount of bitstream used to provide feeable ancillary or supplementary services during the applicable period. Licensees and permittees will certify under penalty of perjury the accuracy of the information reported. Failure to file information required by this section may result in appropriate sanctions.


(ii) A commercial or noncommercial TV licensee or permittee that has provided feeable ancillary or supplementary services at any point during a 12-month period ending on September 30 must additionally file the FCC's standard remittance form (Form 159) on the subsequent December 1. Licensees and permittees will certify the amount of gross revenues received from feeable ancillary or supplementary services for the applicable 12-month period and will remit the payment of the required fee.


(iii) The Commission reserves the right to audit each licensee's or permittee's records which support the calculation of the amount specified on line 23A of Form 159. Each licensee or permittee, therefore, is required to retain such records for three years from the date of remittance of fees.



---

[N] [89 FR 7429, Feb. 1, 2024]






