# § 422.660   Right to a hearing, burden of proof, standard of proof, and standards of review.

(a) *Right to a hearing.* The following parties are entitled to a hearing:


(1) A contract applicant that has been determined to be unqualified to enter into a contract with CMS under Part C of Title XVIII of the Act in accordance with §§ 422.501 and 422.502.


(2) An MA organization whose contract has been terminated in accordance with § 422.510.


(3) An MA organization whose contract has not been renewed in accordance with § 422.506.


(4) An MA organization who has had an intermediate sanction imposed in accordance with § 422.752(a) through (b) of this part.


(5) An applicant that has been determined to be unqualified to offer a Specialized MA Plan for Special Needs Individuals.


(b) *Burden of proof, standard of proof, and standards of review at a hearing.* (1) During a hearing to review a contract determination as described at § 422.641(a) of this subpart, the applicant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that CMS' determination was inconsistent with the requirements of §§ 422.501 and 422.502 of this part.


(2) During a hearing to review a contract determination as described at § 422.641(b) of this subpart, the MA organization has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that CMS' determination was inconsistent with the requirements of § 422.506 of this part.


(3) During a hearing to review a contract determination as described at § 422.641(c) of this subpart, the MA organization has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that CMS' determination was inconsistent with the requirements of § 422.510 of this part.


(4) During a hearing to review the imposition of an intermediate sanction as described at § 422.750, the MA organization has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that CMS' determination was inconsistent with the requirements of § 422.752(a) and (b).


(5) During a hearing to review a determination as described at § 422.641(d) of this subpart, the applicant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that CMS' determination was inconsistent with the requirements of §§ 422.2; 422.4(a)(1)(iv); 422.101(f); 422.107, if applicable; and 422.152(g) of this part.


(c) *Timing of favorable decisions.* Notice of any decision favorable to the MA organization appealing a determination that it is not qualified to enter into a contract with CMS must be issued by September 1 for the contract in question to be effective on January 1 of the following year.



---

[N] [75 FR 19813, Apr. 15, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 22168, Apr. 12, 2012; 80 FR 7962, Feb. 12, 2015]




