# § 55.20   Decision making process.

Except for actions covered by § 55.14, the decision making process for compliance with this part contains eight steps, including public notices and an examination of practicable alternatives when addressing floodplains and wetlands. Third parties may provide analysis and information to support the decision making process; however, final determinations for each step, authorization of public notices, and receipt of public comments, are the responsibility of HUD or the responsible entity. The steps to be followed in the decision making process are as follows:




(a) *Step 1.* Using the processes described in §§ 55.7 and 55.9, determine whether the proposed action is located in the FFRMS floodplain or results in new construction that directly impacts an onsite wetland. If the action does not occur in the FFRMS floodplain or include new construction directly impacting an onsite wetland, then no further compliance with this section is required. Where the proposed action would be located in the FFRMS floodplain and includes new construction directly impacting an onsite wetland, these impacts should be evaluated together in a single 8-step decision making process. In such a case, the wetland will be considered among the primary natural and beneficial functions and values of the floodplain. For purposes of this section, an “action” includes areas required for ingress and egress, even if they are not within the site boundary, and other integral components of the proposed action, even if they are not within the site boundary.

 


(b) *Step 2.* Notify the public and agencies responsible for floodplain management or wetlands protection at the earliest possible time of a proposal to consider an action in an FFRMS floodplain or wetland and involve the affected and interested public and agencies in the decision making process.


(1) The public notices required by paragraphs (b) and (g) of this section may be combined with other project notices wherever appropriate. Notices required under this part must be bilingual or multilingual, as appropriate, if the affected public has Limited English Proficiency. In addition, all notices must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected community or on an appropriate government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency, and must be sent to Federal, State, and local public agencies, organizations, and, where not otherwise covered, individuals known to be interested in the proposed action.


(2) A minimum of 15 calendar days shall be allowed for comment on the public notice. The first day of a time period begins at 12:01 a.m. local time on the day following the publication or the mailing and posting date of the notice which initiates the time period.


(3) A notice under this paragraph shall state: The name, proposed location, and description of the activity; the total number of acres of floodplain or wetland involved; the related natural and beneficial functions and values of the floodplain or wetland that may be adversely affected by the proposed activity; the HUD approving official (or the Certifying Officer of the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58); and the phone number to call for information. The notice shall indicate the hours of HUD's or the responsible entity's office, and any Web site at which a full description of the proposed action may be reviewed.


(4) When the proposed activity is located in or affects a community with environmental justice concerns, public comment and decision making under this part shall be coordinated with consultation and decision making under HUD policies implementing 24 CFR 58.5(j) or 50.4(l).


(c) *Step 3.* Identify and evaluate practicable alternatives to locating the proposed action in the FFRMS floodplain or wetland.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, HUD's or the responsible entity's consideration of practicable alternatives to the proposed site selected for a project should include:


(i) Locations outside and not affecting the FFRMS floodplain or wetland;


(ii) Alternative methods to serve the identical project objective, including but not limited to design alternatives such as repositioning or reconfiguring proposed siting of structures and improvements or incorporating natural systems, ecosystem processes, and nature-based solutions to avoid floodplain and wetland impacts; and


(iii) A determination not to approve any action proposing the occupancy or modification of a floodplain or wetland.


(2) Practicability of alternatives should be addressed in light of the goals identified in the project description related to the following:


(i) Natural values such as topography, habitat, and hazards;


(ii) Social values such as aesthetics, historic and cultural values, land use patterns, and environmental justice; and


(iii) Economic values such as the cost of space, construction, services, relocation, potential property losses from flooding, and cost of flood insurance.




(3) For multifamily and healthcare projects involving HUD mortgage insurance that are initiated by third parties, HUD in its consideration of practicable alternatives is not required to consider alternative sites, but must include consideration of:


(i) A determination to approve the request without modification;


(ii) A determination to approve the request with modification; and


(iii) A determination not to approve the request.




(d) *Step 4.* Identify and evaluate the potential direct and indirect impacts associated with the occupancy or modification of the FFRMS floodplain or the wetland and the potential direct and indirect support of floodplain and wetland development that could result from the proposed action, including impacts related to future climate-related flood levels, sea level rise, and the related increased value of beneficial floodplain and wetland functions.




(1) *Floodplain evaluation.* The floodplain evaluation for the proposed action must evaluate floodplain characteristics (both existing and as proposed for modification by the project) to determine potential adverse impacts to lives, property, and natural and beneficial floodplain values as compared with alternatives identified in Step 3.


(i) Floodplain characteristics include:


(A) Identification of portions of the site that are subject to flood risk, documented through mapping and, as required by § 55.7(e) or commensurate with the scale of the project and available resources as permitted by § 55.7(f), climate-informed analysis of factors including development patterns, streamflow, and hydrologic and hydraulic modeling;


(B) Topographic information that can inform flooding patterns and distance to flood sources, as described in flood mapping, Flood Insurance Studies, and other data sources; and


(C) Public safety communications and data related to flood risk including available information on structures such as dams, levees, or other flood protection infrastructure located in proximity to the site.


(ii) Impacts to lives and property include:


(A) Potential loss of life, injury, or hardship to residents of the subject property during a flood event;


(B) Damage to the subject property during a flood event;


(C) Damage to surrounding properties from increased runoff or reduction in floodplain function during a flood event due to modification of the subject site;


(D) Health impacts due to exposure to toxic substance releases that may be caused or exacerbated by flood events; and


(E) Damage to a community as a result of project failure (*e.g.,* failure of stormwater management infrastructure due to scouring).


(iii) Impacts to natural and beneficial values include changes to:


(A) Water resources such as natural moderation of floods, water quality maintenance, and groundwater recharge;


(B) Living resources such as flora and fauna (if the project requires consultation under 24 CFR 50.4(e) or 58.5(e), consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or National Marine Fisheries Service must include a description of impacts evaluated under this part);


(C) Cultural resources such as archaeological, historic, aesthetic and recreational aspects; and


(D) Agricultural, aquacultural, and forestry resources.




(2) *Wetland evaluation.* In accordance with section 5 of Executive Order 11990, the decision maker shall consider factors relevant to a proposal's effect on the survival and quality of the wetland. Factors that must be evaluated include, but are not limited to:




(i) Public health, safety, and welfare, including water supply, quality, recharge, and discharge; pollution; flood and storm hazards and hazard protection; and sediment and erosion, including the impact of increased quantity or velocity of stormwater runoff on, or to areas outside of, the proposed site;




(ii) Maintenance of natural systems, including conservation and long-term productivity of existing flora and fauna; species and habitat diversity and stability; natural hydrologic function; wetland type; fish; wildlife; timber; and food and fiber resources;


(iii) Cost increases attributed to wetland-required new construction and mitigation measures to minimize harm to wetlands that may result from such use; and


(iv) Other uses of wetlands in the public interest, including recreational, scientific, and cultural uses.




(e) *Step 5.* Where practicable, design or modify the proposed action to minimize the potential adverse impacts to and from the FFRMS floodplain or wetland and to restore and preserve their natural and beneficial functions and values.


(1) *Elevation.* For actions in the FFRMS floodplain, the required elevation described in this section must be documented on an Elevation Certificate or a Floodproofing Certificate in the Environmental Review Record prior to construction, or by such other means as HUD may from time to time direct, provided that notwithstanding any language to the contrary, the minimum elevation or floodproofing requirement for new construction or substantial improvement actions shall be the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain as defined in this section.


(i) If a residential structure undergoing new construction or substantial improvement is located in the FFRMS floodplain, the lowest floor or FEMA-approved equivalent must be designed using the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain as the baseline standard for elevation, except where higher elevations are required by Tribal, State, or locally adopted code or standards, in which case those higher elevations apply. Where non-elevation standards such as setbacks or other flood risk reduction standards that have been issued to identify, communicate, or reduce the risks and costs of floods are required by Tribal, State, or locally adopted code or standards, those standards shall apply in addition to the FFRMS baseline elevation standard.


(ii) New construction and substantial improvement of residential structures that have no dwelling units below the FFRMS floodplain and that are not critical actions as defined at § 55.2(b)(3), or of non-residential structures, shall be designed either:


(A) With the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain; or


(B) With the structure floodproofed at least up to the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain. Floodproofing standards are as stated in FEMA's regulations at 44 CFR 60.3(c)(3)(ii) and (c)(4)(i), or such other regulatory standard as FEMA may issue, and applicable guidance, except that where the standard refers to base flood level, floodproofing is required at or above the FFRMS floodplain, as defined in this part.


(iii) The term “lowest floor” must be applied consistent with FEMA regulations in 44 CFR 59.1 and FEMA's Elevation Certificate guidance or other applicable current FEMA guidance.


(2) *Minimization.* Potential harm to or within the floodplain and/or wetland must be reduced to the smallest possible amount. E.O. 11988's requirement to minimize potential harm applies to the investment at risk or the flood loss potential of the action itself, the impact the action may have on others, and the impact the action may have on floodplain and wetland values. The record must include a discussion of all minimization techniques that will be incorporated into project designs as well as those that were considered but not approved. Minimization techniques for floodplain and wetlands purposes include, but are not limited to:


(i) *Stormwater management and green infrastructure:* The use of permeable surfaces; natural landscape enhancements that maintain or restore natural hydrology through infiltration, native plant species, bioswales, rain gardens, or evapotranspiration; stormwater capture and reuse; green or vegetative roofs with drainage provisions; WaterSense products; rain barrels and grey water diversion systems; protective gates or angled safety grates for culverts and stormwater drains; and other low impact development and green infrastructure strategies, technologies, and techniques. Where possible, use natural systems, ecosystem processes, and nature-based approaches when developing alternatives for consideration.


(ii) *Adjusting project footprint:* Evaluate options to relocate or redesign structures, amenities, and infrastructure to minimize the amount of impermeable surfaces and other impacts in the FFRMS floodplain or wetland. This may include changes such as designing structures to be taller and narrower or avoiding tree clearing to reduce potential erosion from flooding.


(iii) *Resilient building standards:* Consider implementing resilient building codes or standards to ensure a reliable and consistent level of safety.


(iv) *Severe Repetitive Loss (SRL) mitigation:* Identify and incorporate FEMA identified SRL mitigation as outlined in § 55.8(c), if applicable.


(3) *Restoration and preservation.* Restore means to reestablish a setting or environment in which the natural and beneficial values of floodplains and wetlands could again function. Where floodplain and wetland values have been degraded by past actions, restoration is informed by evaluation of the impacts of such actions on beneficial values of the floodplain or wetland and identification, evaluation, and implementation of practicable measures to restore the values diminished or lost. Preserve means to prevent modification to the natural floodplain or wetland environment or to maintain it as closely as possible to its natural state. If an action will result in harm to or within the floodplain or wetland, HUD or the responsible entity must ensure that the action is designed or modified to assure that it will be carried out in a manner which preserves as much of the natural and beneficial floodplain and values as is possible. Restoration and preservation techniques for floodplain and wetlands purposes include, but are not limited to:


(i) Natural Resource Conservation Service or other conservation easements;


(ii) Appropriate and practicable compensatory mitigation, which is required for unavoidable adverse impacts to more than one acre of wetlands. Compensatory mitigation includes but is not limited to: permittee-responsible mitigation, mitigation banking, in-lieu fee mitigation, the use of preservation easements or protective covenants, and any form of mitigation promoted by State or Federal agencies. The use of compensatory mitigation may not substitute for the requirement to avoid and minimize impacts to the maximum extent practicable.


(4) *Planning for residents' and occupants' safety.* (i) For multifamily residential properties and residential healthcare facilities, an evacuation plan must be developed that includes safe egress route(s) out of the FFRMS floodplain, plans for evacuating residents with special needs, and clear communication of the evacuation plan and safety resources for residents.


(ii) For all healthcare facilities, evacuation route(s) out of the FFRMS floodplain must be identified and clearly communicated to all residents and employees. Such actions must include a plan for emergency evacuation and relocation to a facility of like capacity that is equipped to provide required critical needs-related care and services at a level similar to the originating facility.


(iii) All critical actions in the FFRMS floodplain must operate and maintain an early warning system that serves all facility occupants.






(f) *Step 6.* HUD or the responsible entity shall consider the totality of the previous steps and the criteria in this section to make a decision as to whether to approve, approve with modifications, or reject the proposed action. Adverse impacts to floodplains and wetlands must be avoided if there is a practicable alternative. This analysis must consider:




(1) Whether the action is still practicable in light of exposure to flood hazards in the floodplain or wetland, possible adverse impacts on the floodplain or wetland, the extent to which it will aggravate the current hazards to other floodplains or wetlands, and the potential to disrupt the natural and beneficial functions and values of floodplains or wetlands; and


(2) Whether alternatives preliminarily rejected at Step 3 (paragraph (c)) of this section are practicable in light of information gained in Steps 4 and 5 (paragraphs (d) and (e)) of this section.


(i) The reevaluation of alternatives shall include the potential impacts avoided or caused inside and outside the floodplain or wetland area. The impacts should include the protection of human life, real property, and the natural and beneficial functions and values served by the floodplain or wetland.


(ii) A reevaluation of alternatives under this step should include a discussion of economic costs. For floodplains, the cost estimates should include savings or the costs of flood insurance, where applicable; flood proofing; replacement of services or functions of critical actions that might be lost; and elevation to at least the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain, as appropriate based on the applicable source under § 55.7. For wetlands, the cost estimates should include the cost of filling the wetlands and mitigation.


(iii) If the proposed activity is located in or affects a community with environmental justice concerns, the reevaluation must address public input provided during environmental justice outreach, if conducted, and must document the ways in which the activity, in light of information analyzed, mitigation measures applied, and alternatives selected, serves to reduce any historical environmental disparities related to flood risk or wetlands impacts in the community.




(g) *Step 7.* (1) 

If the reevaluation results in a determination that there is no practicable alternative to locating the proposal in the FFRMS floodplain or the wetland, publish a final notice that includes:


(i) The reasons why the proposal must be located in the floodplain or wetland;


(ii) A list of the alternatives considered in accordance with paragraphs(c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section; and


(iii) All mitigation measures to be taken to minimize adverse impacts and to restore and preserve natural and beneficial functions and values.


(2) In addition, the public notice procedures of § 55.20(b)(1) shall be followed, and a minimum of 7 calendar days for public comment before approval of the proposed action shall be provided. 


(h) *Step 8.* Upon completion of the decisionmaking process in Steps 1 through 7, implement the proposed action. There is a continuing responsibility on HUD (or on the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58) and the recipient (if other than the responsible entity) to ensure that the mitigating measures identified in Step 7 are implemented.



---

[N] [59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 68732, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30910, Apr. 23, 2024]




