# § 190.71   Drawback on articles destroyed under CBP supervision.

(a) *Procedure.* At least 7 working days before the intended date of destruction of merchandise or articles upon which drawback is intended to be claimed, a Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback on CBP Form 7553 must be filed by the claimant with the CBP port where the destruction is to take place, giving notification of the date and specific location where the destruction is to occur. Within 4 working days after receipt of the CBP Form 7553, CBP will advise the filer in writing of its determination to witness or not to witness the destruction. If the filer of the notice is not so notified within 4 working days, the merchandise may be destroyed without delay and will be deemed to have been destroyed under CBP supervision. Unless CBP determines to witness the destruction, the destruction of the articles following timely notification on CBP Form 7553 will be deemed to have occurred under CBP supervision. If CBP attends the destruction, CBP will certify on CBP Form 7553.


(b) *Evidence of destruction.* When CBP does not attend the destruction, the claimant must submit evidence that destruction took place in accordance with the Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback on CBP Form 7553. The evidence must be issued by a disinterested third party (for example, a landfill operator). The type of evidence depends on the method and place of destruction, but must establish that the merchandise was, in fact, destroyed within the meaning of “destruction” in § 190.2.


(c) *Completion of drawback entry.* After destruction, the claimant must provide CBP Form 7553, certified by the CBP official witnessing the destruction in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, to CBP as part of the complete drawback claim based on the destruction (*see* § 190.51(a)). If CBP has not attended the destruction, the claimant must provide the evidence that destruction took place in accordance with the approved CBP Form 7553, as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, as part of the complete drawback claim based on the destruction (*see* § 190.51(a)).


(d) *Deduction for value of recovered materials.* Under 19 U.S.C. 1313(x), a destruction may include a process by which materials are recovered from imported merchandise or from an article manufactured from imported merchandise for drawback claims made pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1313(a), (b), (c), and (j). In determining the amount of duties to be refunded as drawback to a claimant, the value of recovered materials (including the value of any tax benefit or royalty payment) that accrues to the drawback claimant must be deducted from the value of the imported merchandise that is destroyed, or from the value of the merchandise used, or designated as used, in the manufacture of the article.




