# ยง 1979.101   Definitions.

*Act* or *AIR21* means section 519 of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century, Public Law 106-181, April 5, 2000, 49 U.S.C. 42121. 


*Air carrier* means a citizen of the United States undertaking by any means, directly or indirectly, to provide air transportation. 


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom he or she delegates authority under the Act. 


*Complainant* means the employee who filed a complaint under the Act or on whose behalf a complaint was filed. 


*Contractor* means a company that performs safety-sensitive functions by contract for an air carrier. 


*Employee* means an individual presently or formerly working for an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier, an individual applying to work for an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier, or an individual whose employment could be affected by an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier. 


*Named person* means the person alleged to have violated the Act. 


*OSHA* means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor. 


*Person* means one or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, business trusts, legal representatives, or any group of persons. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor or persons to whom authority under the Act has been delegated. 




