# ยง 511.11   Commencement of proceedings.

(a) *Notice of institution of an enforcement proceeding.* An adjudicative proceeding under this part is commenced by the issuance of a complaint by the NHTSA.


(b) *Form and content of complaint.* The complaint shall be signed by the Complaint Counsel and shall contain the following:


(1) Recital of the legal authority for instituting the proceeding, with specific designation of the statutory provisions involved in each allegation.


(2) Identification of each respondent.


(3) A clear and concise statement of the charges, sufficient to inform each respondent with reasonable definiteness of the factual basis of the allegations of violation. A list and summary of documentary evidence supporting the charges shall be attached.


(4) A statement of the civil penalty which the Complaint Counsel believes is in the public interest, or which is required by law. In the case of civil penalties assessed for violations of section 507(3) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2007(3)), the amount of such penalty shall be calculated from the time of the alleged violation. In the case of civil penalties assessed for violations of section 507 (1) or (2) of that Act, any monetary credits available to offset those civil penalties shall be specified.


(5) The right of the respondent to a hearing on the alleged violations.


(c) *Notice to the public.* Once a complaint is issued, notice of it shall be immediately submitted to the _Federal Register_ for publication. The notice in the _Federal Register_ shall briefly describe the nature of the proceeding and state that petitions to participate in the proceeding must be filed no later than the first prehearing conference.




