# § 21.22   Authorization—licensed veterinarians.

(a) Any person who finds a sick, injured, or orphaned migratory bird, including bald eagles and golden eagles, may, without a permit, take possession of the bird for immediate transport to a licensed veterinarian or federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator.


(b) Licensed veterinarians are authorized to take the following actions without a permit:


(1) Take from the wild or receive from any person, a sick, injured, or orphaned migratory bird, including bald eagles and golden eagles, for the purpose of providing veterinary care.


(2) Perform diagnostics as well as surgical and nonsurgical procedures necessary for triage, including euthanizing migratory birds (See § 21.76(e)(4)(iii)-(iv)). Under this authorization, licensed veterinarians may not conduct amputations and other procedures that could render a bird nonreleasable.


(3) Release migratory birds that have been in care less than 24 hours to suitable habitat in the wild. The Service recommends contacting a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator if you need assistance determining if birds are suitable for release and suitable release locations.


(4) Transfer birds to a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator.


(5) Dispose of dead migratory birds in accordance with § 21.76(e)(4)(vi) and dispose of dead bald eagles and golden eagles in accordance with § 21.76(e)(4)(vi)(C).


(c) Licensed veterinarians are not authorized to release to the wild migratory birds held in care longer than 24 hours. Any migratory bird held longer than 24 hours must be transferred to a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator.


(d) After hospitalization is no longer required, within 48 hours, live migratory birds must be transferred to a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator. Any determination of nonreleasable status requires a rehabilitation permit (§ 21.76) and may not be made under this regulatory authorization. If unable to transfer a bird within that time, you must contact your regional migratory bird permit office for assistance in locating a permitted migratory bird rehabilitator, authorization to continue care, or a recommendation to euthanize the bird.


(e) Migratory birds in possession under this authorization must be maintained in humane and healthful conditions as defined in §§ 21.6 and 22.6 of this subchapter B.


(f) Licensed veterinarians must notify the appropriate Ecological Services Office within 24 hours of receiving a migratory bird that is also on the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife (50 CFR 17.11). See 50 CFR 2.2 for a list of Service regional offices.


(g) Licensed veterinarians must keep records for 5 years of all migratory birds held and treated under this authorization, including those euthanized. Records must include the species of bird, the type of injury, the date of acquisition, disposition (*e.g.,* live bird transferred, specimens destroyed, or specimens donated), and, if the bird died in your care, the date and cause of death. Upon an inspection request, individuals must present available specimens and records at any reasonable time.





---

[N] [89 FR 107041, Dec. 31, 2024]








