# § 5001.319   REAP project priority point system.

This section applies to REAP projects seeking a loan guarantee. On a periodic basis, and subject to the availability of funds, the Agency will compete each complete and eligible RES, EEI, and EEE application that is ready to be funded and whose priority score, as determined in this section, meets, or exceeds the minimum priority score. Applications that do not meet the applicable minimum score will be considered as provided in § 5001.315(c)(2). A maximum score of 90 points is possible.


(a) *Environmental benefits.* The Agency will award up to 5 points under this criterion based on documentation or the applicant's indication in the application that the project will have a positive effect on resource conservation, public health, and the environment. If the project will have a positive impact on:






(1) All three impact areas, 5 points will be awarded;


(2) Any two of the three impact areas, 3 points will be awarded; or


(3) Any one of the three impact areas, 1 point will be awarded.


(b) *Energy generated, replaced, saved, or percent efficiency.* The Agency will award up to 25 points under this criterion. Each application is eligible for points under both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Quantity of energy generated or saved per RES/EEI loan amount requested, or percent efficiency of EEE project.* The Agency will award up to 10 points under this sub-criterion. Points will be awarded for either the amount of renewable energy generation per dollar of loan amount requested, which includes those projects that are replacing energy usage with a renewable source; or the actual annual average energy savings over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested; or the percent efficiency of the EEE project. The Agency will not award points for more than one category.


(i) *Renewable energy systems.* The quantity of energy generated or replaced per guaranteed loan dollar requested will be determined by dividing the projected total annual energy generated or replaced by the RES or RES retrofit (minus energy for residential use), which will be converted to BTUs, by the guaranteed loan dollars requested. Applications for retrofitting of a RES that are not projecting to increase the amount of renewable energy that the RES is generating, while still eligible for REAP, will not be awarded points under this criteria. Off-the-grid projects and direct-use projects which are not replacements, will be awarded points based on proposed energy generation. Points will be awarded under this sub-criterion based on the annual amount of energy generated or replaced (minus energy for residential use) per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested for the RES project. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined under *paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A)* and *(B)* of this section below. If the annual amount of energy generated per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested calculated under *paragraph (b)(1)(ii)* of this section is:








(A) 50,000 BTUs or higher average annual energy generated or replaced per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or


(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs annual energy generated or replaced per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested, points will be awarded according to the result of taking the energy generated or replaced per guaranteed loan dollar requested ÷ 50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.


(ii) *Energy efficiency improvements.* The Agency will award up to 10 points under this sub-criterion based on the average annual energy saved per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested for the EEI project. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) 50,000 BTUs or higher average annual energy saved per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested, 10 points will be awarded; or


(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs average annual energy saved per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested, points will be awarded according to the result of taking the energy generated per loan dollar requested ÷ 50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.


(iii) *Energy efficient equipment and systems.* If the increased energy efficiency of the proposed equipment and systems is—


(A) 75 percent or greater, award 10 points;


(B) Less than 75 percent but equal to or greater than 50 percent, award 5 points;


(C) Less than 50 percent but equal to or greater than 25 percent, award 2.5 points; or


(D) Less than 25 percent, award 0 points.


(2) *Quantity of energy replaced, generated, or saved, or percentage of energy efficiency.* The Agency will award up to 15 points under this sub-criterion. Points will be awarded based on whether the project is for energy replacement, energy generation, or energy savings, or percentage of energy efficiency; points will not be awarded for more than one category.


(i) *Energy replacement.* The Agency will award points under this sub-criterion for an RES project based on the amount of energy replaced by the project compared to the amount of energy used by the applicable process(es) over a 12-month period. If the estimated energy produced is more than 150 percent of the energy used by the applicable process(es), the project will be scored as an energy generation project under *paragraph (b)(2)(ii)* of this section. When calculating the percentage of energy being replaced and whether it is categorized as a replacement or generation, the entire amount of energy produced by the new system will be used in the calculation, regardless of whether the project is being prorated because it shares a meter with a residence or if it has ineligible project costs.


(A) *Documentation for energy replacement.* For a RES project to qualify as energy replacement, the borrower must provide documentation in its application on prior energy use incurred by the borrower. Documentation must be shown that the borrower entity incurred the cost of the historical energy to be replaced, in order for the project to qualify as energy replacement. Replacement of existing direct use renewable energy can be considered in the replacement calculation as long as the borrower entity owns the existing RES system. For a project involving a recent acquisition, historical energy costs of the previous owner can be used to document prior energy use. Applicant entities cannot utilize historical energy costs of affiliate businesses to document prior energy use. Proposed energy use, such as that attributed to an expansion, is not considered in the replacement calculation. For a RES project involving new construction and being installed to serve the new facility, the project can be classified as energy replacement only if the borrower can document prior energy use from a facility that is within plus or minus 10 percent of the size of the facility it is replacing. The estimated quantities of energy must be converted to either BTUs, watts, or similar energy equivalents to facilitate scoring.






(B) *Calculation.* Energy replacement is determined by dividing the quantity of renewable energy that the RES project is estimated would have been generated if it were in place over the most recent 12-month period by the quantity of energy actually consumed over the same period by the applicable energy process(es) that is(are) consuming energy.


(C) *Awarding of points.* Using the results from paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, if the percentage of energy replacement is—


(*1*) Greater than 50 percent, 15 points will be awarded;


(*2*) Greater than 25 percent, but equal to or less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or


(*3*) Equal to or less than 25 percent, 5 points will be awarded.












(ii) *Energy generation.* If the RES project is intended for production of energy or is a proposed retrofitting of an existing RES which increases the amount of energy generated, the Agency will award 10 points. Applications for retrofitting of an RES that are not projecting to increase the amount of renewable energy that the RES is generating, while still eligible for REAP, will not be awarded points under this criteria. If the borrower cannot document prior energy use, the project will be scored as an energy generation project, regardless of whether or not there is an agreement in place to sell the power.


(iii) *Energy saved.* The Agency will award up to 15 points under this sub-criterion for an EEI project based on the percentage of estimated energy saved by the installation of the project as determined by the projections in the applicable vendor certification, energy assessment or energy audit. If the estimated energy expected to be saved over the same period used in the energy assessment or energy audit, as applicable, will be—




(A) 50 percent or greater, 15 points will be awarded;


(B) 35 percent up to, but not including 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded;


(C) 20 percent up to, but not including 35 percent, 5 points will be awarded; or


(D) Less than 20 percent, no points will be awarded.


(iv) *Energy efficiency.* If the percentage of energy efficiency is—


(A) Greater than 50 percent, 15 points will be awarded;


(B) Greater than 25 percent, but equal to or less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or


(C) Equal to or less than 25 percent, 5 points will be awarded.


(c) *Commitment of funds.* The Agency will award up to 15 points under this criterion based on the percentage of acceptable written commitment a borrower has from its other funding sources that are documented with a complete application.


(1) *Calculation.* The percentage of written commitment is calculated as follows: Percentage of written commitment = total amount of funds for which written commitments have been submitted with the application ÷ Total amount of matching funds and other funds required.


(2) *Awarding of points.* Using the result from paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Agency will award points as shown in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) If the percentage of written commitments is 100 percent of the matching funds, 15 points will be awarded.


(ii) If the percentage of written commitments is less than 100 percent, but more than 50 percent, points will be awarded as follows: ((Percentage of written commitments − 50 percent) ÷ (50 percent)) × 15 points, where points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.


(iii) If the percentage of written commitments is 50 percent or less, no points will be awarded.


(d) *Previous grantees or borrowers.* The Agency will award up to 15 points under this criterion based on whether the borrower has received and accepted a REAP grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280. Received and accepted means REAP grant funds were disbursed and/or a REAP loan note guarantee was issued by the Agency. The determination is based on the fiscal year in which the obligation was made.




(1) If the borrower has never received and accepted a grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280, 15 points will be awarded.


(2) If the borrower has not received and accepted a grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280 within the previous two Federal fiscal years, 10 points will be awarded.


(3) If the borrower has received and accepted a grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280 within the previous two Federal fiscal years, no points will be awarded.


(e) *Existing businesses.* A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for an existing agricultural producer business or rural small business that meets the definition of existing business in § 5001.3. The business must be in operation for at least one full year, not simply a year since legal business formation.


(f) *Simple payback.* A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the simple payback of the project as defined in § 5001.3. Points will be awarded for either RES, EEI, or EEE; points will not be awarded for more than one category. See definition of simple payback for calculations. Simple payback calculations will be calculated based only on the documented information provided with the application.


(1) *Renewable energy systems.* RESs includes replacement, generation, and direct-use RES projects. If the simple payback of the project is:




(i) Less than 10 years, 15 points will be awarded;


(ii) 10 years up to but not including 15 years, 10 points will be awarded;


(iii) 15 years up to and including 25 years, 5 points will be awarded; or


(iv) Longer than 25 years, no points will be awarded.


(2) *Energy efficiency improvements.* If the simple payback of the project is:


(i) Less than 4 years, 15 points will be awarded;


(ii) 4 years up to but not including 8 years, 10 points will be awarded;


(iii) 8 years up to and including 12 years, 5 points will be awarded; or


(iv) Longer than 12 years, no points will be awarded.


(3) *Energy efficient equipment and systems.* If the simple payback of the project is—


(i) Less than 4 years, 15 points will be awarded;


(ii) 4 years up to but not including 8 years, 10 points will be awarded;


(iii) 8 years up to and including 12 years, 5 points will be awarded; or


(iv) Longer than 12 years, no points will be awarded.


(g) *Administrator priority points.* Under this criterion, the Administrator may award up to 10 points to an application based on the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section. Under no circumstances will an application receive more than 10 points under this criterion.


(1) The application is for an under-represented technology.


(2) Selecting the application helps achieve geographic diversity.


(3) The borrower is a member of an unserved or under-served population.


(i) The borrower is a veteran or veterans own 20 percent or more in interest in the borrower. In order to receive points, the borrower must sign a certification in its application to indicate that the borrower has veteran status; or


(ii) The borrower is a member of a socially disadvantaged group or members of socially disadvantaged group(s) own 20 percent or more in interest in the borrower socially disadvantaged groups are groups whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. In order to receive points, the application must include a statement to indicate that borrower is a member of a socially disadvantaged group.


(4) Selecting the application helps further a Presidential initiative or a Secretary of Agriculture priority.


(5) The proposed project is located in a federally declared disaster area. Declarations must be within the last 3 calendar years.


(6) The project is located in an area where 20 percent or more of its population is living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, for the last 30 years; an underserved community; or an area which has experienced long-term population decline, or loss of employment.




(h) *Unused funding.* After each periodic competition, the Agency will roll any remaining guaranteed loan funding authority into the next competition. At the end of each Federal fiscal year, the Agency may elect at its discretion to allow any remaining multi-year funds to be carried over to the next Federal fiscal year rather than selecting a lower scoring application.





---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79722, Sept. 30, 2024]








