# § 1720.3   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of RUS.


*Applicant* means a bank or other lending institution organized as a private, not-for-profit cooperative association, or otherwise on a non-profit basis, that is applying for RUS to guarantee a bond or note under this part.


*Bond documents* means the guarantee, guarantee agreement, Pledge Agreement, and all other instruments and documentation pertaining to the issuance of the guaranteed bonds.


*Criticized loan* means a loan that has borrower risk ratings that have been categorized as “special mention,” substandard,” “doubtful”, or “loss”, or any comparable categorization as described in the guaranteed lender's most recent audited financial statements.


*Eligible instrument* means a note or bond of a borrower payable or registered to, or to the order of, the guaranteed lender and for which:


(1) No default has occurred in the payment of principal or interest in accordance with the terms of such note or bond that is continuing beyond the contractual grace period (if any) provided in such note or bond for such payment;


(2) No “event of default”, as defined in such note or bond (or in any instrument creating a security interest in favor of the guaranteed lender, in respect of such note or bond), shall exist that has resulted in the exercise of any right or remedy described in such note or bond (or in any such instrument);


(3) Such note or bond is not classified by the guaranteed lender as “non-performing, criticized or impaired” (or any comparable classification, as determined by RUS) under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States or this part;


(4) Such note or bond is free and clear of all liens other than the lien created by the guaranteed lender's pledge of such security to RUS under the Pledge Agreement;


(5) Such note or bond is not a restructured loan;


(6) Such note or bond is not unsecured debt; and


(7) The amount of generation or transmission loans does not exceed the maximum amount allowed by RUS based on RUS's sole determination of certain factors including, but not limited to, account risk, collateral quality, and collateral quantity.


*Eligible loan* means a loan that a guaranteed lender extends to a borrower for up to 100 percent of the cost of eligible utility infrastructure purposes consistent with the RE Act.


*Federal Financing Bank (FFB)* refers to the Government corporation and instrumentality of the United States of America under the general supervision of the Secretary of the Treasury established by the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973 (12 U.S.C. 2281 *et seq.*).


*Guarantee* means the written agreement between the Secretary and a guaranteed lender, pursuant to which the Secretary guarantees full repayment of the principal, interest, and call premium, if any, on a guaranteed bond.


*Guarantee agreement* means the written agreement between the Secretary and the guaranteed lender which sets forth the terms and conditions of the guarantee.


*Guaranteed bond* means any bond, note, debenture, or other debt obligation issued by a guaranteed lender on a fixed or variable rate basis, and approved by the Secretary for a guarantee under this part.


*Guaranteed bondholder* means any investor in a guaranteed bond.


*Guaranteed lender* means an applicant that has been approved for a guarantee under this part.


*Leveraging data* means the cumulative change in the guaranteed lender's outstanding loans since the filing of the guaranteed lender's last Form 10-Q or Form 10-K or financial statements, as applicable.


*Loan* means any credit instrument that the guaranteed lender extends to a borrower for any utility infrastructure purpose eligible under the RE Act, including loans as set forth in section 4 of the RE Act for electricity transmission lines and distribution systems, loans as set forth in section 201 of the RE Act for telephone lines, facilities, and systems, and loans as set forth in Title VI of the RE Act for broadband systems.


*Loan documents* means the loan agreement and all other instruments and documentation between the guaranteed lender and the borrower evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering of a loan.


*Pledge Agreement* means the written agreement among the Secretary, the guaranteed lender, and a collateral agent, which sets forth the terms and conditions of the guaranteed lender's pledge of eligible instruments as collateral.


*Pledged collateral* means the following items pledged to RUS by the guaranteed lender as security for the guaranteed lender's repayment of a guaranteed bond:


(1)(i) The pledged instruments and the certificates representing the pledged instruments;


(ii) All payments of principal or interest, cash, instruments, and other property from time to time received, receivable, or otherwise distributed in respect of, in exchange for, and all other proceeds received in respect of, the pledged instruments;


(iii) All rights and privileges of the guaranteed lender with respect to the pledged instruments; and


(iv) All other proceeds of any of the foregoing; and


(2) Any property, including cash and certain permitted investments, that are pledged by the guaranteed lender as security for the repayment of a guaranteed bond.


*Pledged instruments* means the eligible instruments pledged by the guaranteed lender to RUS as security for the repayment of a guaranteed bond.


*Program* or *313A Program* means the guarantee program for bonds and notes issued for utility infrastructure purposes authorized by section 313A of the RE Act as amended.


*Rating agency* means a bond rating agency identified by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*) as amended.


*RUS* means the Rural Utilities Service, a Rural Development agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture acting through the Administrator of RUS.


*Subsidy amount* means the amount of budget authority sufficient to cover the estimated long-term cost to the Federal Government of a guarantee, calculated on a net present value basis, excluding administrative costs and any incidental effects on Government receipts or outlays, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 *et seq.*).


*Utility infrastructure* means equipment, systems, facilities, or other assets used to deliver electric, telephone, or broadband related services to consumers or to entities serving consumers.



---

[N] [87 FR 74499, Dec. 6, 2022]




