# ยง 3282.8   Applicability.

(a) *Manufactured homes.* This part applies to all manufactured homes that enter the first stage of production on or after June 15, 1976, and to all manufactured homes that enter the first stage of production before June 15, 1976, to which labels are applied under ยง 3282.205(d). 


(b) *States.* This part applies to States that desire to assume responsibility under the Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards enforcement program. It includes requirements which must be met in order for State agencies to be approved by the Secretary under section 623(c) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 5422(c). It also includes requirements for States wishing to act as primary inspection agencies, as defined in ยง 3282.7, or to participate in monitoring activities under ยง 3282.308. 


(c) *Primary inspection and engineering organizations.* This part applies to each private inspection and engineering organization that wishes to qualify as a primary inspection agency under subpart H. 


(d) *Manufactured home manufacturers.* This part applies to all manufacturers producing manufactured homes for sale in the United States. It includes: 


(1) Inspection procedures to be carried out in the manufacturing plants. 


(2) Procedures by which a manufacturer obtains approval of manufactured home designs. 


(3) Procedures by which a manufacturer obtains approval of manufacturing quality control and assurance programs. 


(4) Procedures by which a manufacturer may obtain production inspections and certification labels for its manufactured homes. 


(e) *Manufactured home retailers and distributors.* This part applies to any person selling, leasing, or distributing new manufactured homes for use in the United States. It includes prohibitions of the sale of new manufactured homes to which labels have not been affixed pursuant to subpart H of these regulations or that have been altered, damaged, or otherwise caused not to be in compliance with the Federal standards. 


(f) *Purchasers, owners and consumers.* This part applies to purchasers, owners and consumers of manufactured homes in that it sets out procedures to be followed when purchasers, owners and consumers complain to manufacturers, States, the Secretary or others concerning problems in manufactured homes for which remedies are provided under the Act. 


(g) [Reserved]




(h) *Imported manufactured homes.* Imported manufactured homes are covered by the regulations except as modified by regulations promulgated jointly by the Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury. 


(i) *Export manufactured homes.* Manufactured Homes intended solely for export are not governed by this part or by part 3280 of this title if a label or tag stating that the manufactured home is intended solely for export is placed on the manufactured home or the outside of the container, if any, in which it is to be exported. However, any manufactured home so tagged or labeled that is not exported but is sold to a purchaser in the United States is subject to this part and part 3280 of this title. 


(j) *Add-on.* An add-on including an attached accessory building or structure added by the retailer or some party other than the manufacturer (except where the manufacturer acts as a retailer) as part of a simultaneous transaction involving the sale of a new manufactured home, is not governed by the standards and is not subject to the regulations in this part except as identified in this section and part 3280 of this chapter. The addition of any add-on or attached accessory building or structure must not affect the ability of the manufactured home to comply with the standards. If the addition of an add-on or attached accessory building or structure causes the manufactured home to fail to conform to the standards, then sale, lease, and offer for sale or lease of the home are prohibited until the manufactured home is brought into conformance with the standards.


(1) With the exception of attached accessory buildings or structures, add-ons must be structurally independent and any attachment between the home and the add-on must be for weatherproofing or cosmetic purposes only.


(2) If an attached accessory building or structure is not structurally independent all the following must be met for attachment to the manufactured home:


(i) Manufactured home must be designed and constructed to accommodate all imposed loads, including any loads imposed on the home by the attached accessory building or structure, in accordance with part 3280 of this chapter.


(ii) Data plate must indicate that home has been designed to accommodate the additional loads imposed by the attachment of the attached accessory buildings or structures and must identify the design loads.


(iii) Installation instructions shall be provided by the home manufacturer which identifies acceptable attachment locations, indicates design limitations for the attached accessory building or structure including acceptable live and dead loads for which the home has been designed to accommodate and provide support and anchorage designs as necessary to transfer all imposed loads to the ground in accordance with part 3285 of this chapter.






(k) A structure (including an expandable room, tip-out, or tag-along unit) which is designed and produced as an integral part of a manufactured home when assembled on site, is governed by the standards and these regulations regardless of the dimensions of such structure. 


(l) *Multifamily homes.* Mobile homes designed and manufactured with more than one separate living unit are not covered by the standards and these regulations. 



---

[N] [41 FR 19852, May 13, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 24970, June 21, 1976; 42 FR 35013, July 7, 1977; 44 FR 68733, Nov. 29, 1979; 47 FR 28093, June 29, 1982; 80 FR 53727, Sept. 8, 2015; 83 FR 57688, Nov. 16, 2018; 86 FR 2526, Jan. 12, 2021] 




