# § 721.11149   Carbon nanomaterial (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon nanomaterial (PMN P-10-366) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured), incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has been completely reacted (cured), embedded in a permanent solid polymer, metal, glass, or ceramic form, or completely embedded in an article as defined at 40 CFR 720.3.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (ii), (a)(3) through (5) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health certified air purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter with an Assigned Protection Factor of at least 50), (a)(6) (particulate (including solids or liquid droplets)), (when determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible), and (c).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k), (l), (q), and (y)(1) (when the substance is in liquid resin form). It is a significant new use to process or use the powder form of the substance outside of the site of manufacture or processing.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 64759, Nov. 25, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 102798, Dec. 18, 2024]




