# ยง 412.426   Transition period.

(a) *Duration of transition period and composition of the blended transition payment.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007, an inpatient psychiatric facility receives a payment comprised of a blend of the estimated Federal per diem payment amount, as specified in ยง 412.424(d) of this subpart and a facility-specific payment as specified under paragraph (b) of this section.


(1) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005 and before January 1, 2006, payment is based on 75 percent of the facility-specific payment and 25 percent is based on the Federal per diem payment amount.


(2) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2006 and before January 1, 2007, payment is based on 50 percent of the facility-specific payment and 50 percent is based on the Federal per diem payment amount.


(3) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2007 and before January 1, 2008, payment is based on 25 percent of the facility-specific payment and 75 percent is based on the Federal per diem payment amount.


(4) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2008, payment is based entirely on the Federal per diem payment amount.


(b) *Calculation of the facility-specific payment.* The facility-specific payment is equal to the estimated payment for each cost reporting period in the transition period that would have been made without regard to this subpart. The facility's Medicare fiscal intermediary calculates the facility-specific payment for inpatient operating costs and capital costs in accordance with part 413 of this chapter.


(c) *Treatment of new inpatient psychiatric facilities.* New inpatient psychiatric facilities, are facilities that under present or previous ownership or both have their first cost reporting period as an IPF beginning on or after January 1, 2005. New IPFs are paid based on 100 percent of the Federal per diem payment amount. 



---

[N] [69 FR 66977, Nov. 15, 2004; 70 FR 16729, Apr. 1, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 27087, May 9, 2006; 76 FR 26466, May 6, 2011]




