# ยง 63.1408   Aggregate batch vent stream provisions.

(a) *Emission standards.* Owners or operators of aggregate batch vent streams at a new or existing affected source shall comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate. As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with paragraph (b) of this section. 


(1) The owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream located at a new affected source shall: 


(i) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare; or 


(ii) Reduce organic HAP emissions by 95 weight percent or to a concentration of 20 ppmv when using a combustion control device or to a concentration of 50 ppmv when using a non-combustion control device, whichever is less stringent, on a continuous basis. 


(2) The owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream located at an existing affected source shall: 


(i) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare; or 


(ii) Reduce organic HAP emissions by 83 weight percent or to a concentration of 20 ppmv when using a combustion control device or to a concentration of 50 ppmv when using a non-combustion control device, whichever is less stringent, on a continuous basis. 


(b) *Alternative standard.* Comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. 


(1) *Control device outlet concentration.* Vent all organic HAP emissions from an aggregate batch vent stream to a combustion control device achieving an outlet organic HAP concentration of 20 ppmv or less or to a non-combustion control device achieving an outlet organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or less. Any aggregate batch vent streams that are not vented to a control device meeting these conditions shall be controlled in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) *Mass emission limit.* Include the emissions from all aggregate batch vent streams in the compliance demonstration required for reactor batch process vents complying with the mass emission limits specified in ยง 63.1406(a)(1)(iii) and (a)(2)(iii), as appropriate. This compliance option may only be used when the owner or operator has elected to comply with the mass emission limit for reactor batch process vents. 




