# ยง 65.144   Fuel gas systems and processes to which storage vessel, transfer rack, or equipment leak regulated material emissions are routed.

(a) *Equipment and operating requirements for fuel gas systems and processes.* (1) Except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction as specified in ยง 65.3(a), the fuel gas system or process shall be operating at all times when regulated material emissions are routed to it. 


(2) The owner or operator of a transfer rack subject to the provisions of this subpart shall ensure that no pressure relief device in the transfer rack's system returning vapors to a fuel gas system or process shall open to the atmosphere during loading. Pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph (a)(2). 


(3) Each process piping system collecting regulated material from a transfer rack shall be designed and operated so that regulated material vapors collected at one loading arm will not pass through another loading arm in the rack to the atmosphere. 


(b) *Fuel gas system and process compliance determination.* (1) If emissions are routed to a fuel gas system, there is no requirement to conduct a performance test or design evaluation. 


(2) For storage vessels and transfer racks, and if emissions are routed to a process, the regulated material in the emissions shall predominantly meet one of, or a combination of, the following conditions, and the compliance demonstration requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if applicable: 


(i) Recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in that process; 


(ii) Transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not regulated materials; 


(iii) Incorporated into a product; and/or 


(iv) Recovered. 


(3) To demonstrate compliance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section for a storage vessel, the owner or operator shall prepare a design evaluation (or engineering assessment) that demonstrates the extent to which one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section are being met. The owner or operator shall submit the design evaluation as specified in ยง 65.165(a)(1). 


(c) *Statement of connection to fuel gas system.* For storage vessels and transfer racks, the owner or operator shall submit the statement of connection reports for fuel gas systems specified in ยง 65.165(a)(2) and/or (a)(3), as appropriate. 




