# ยง 201.512   Temporary cease-and-desist orders: Issuance after notice and opportunity for hearing.

(a) *Basis for issuance.* A temporary cease-and-desist order shall be issued only if the Commission determines that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in an order instituting proceedings whether to enter a permanent cease-and-desist order pursuant to Securities Act Section 8A(a), 15 U.S.C. 77h-1(a), Exchange Act Section 21C(a), 15 U.S.C. 78u-3(a), Investment Company Act Section 9(f)(1), 15 U.S.C. 80a-9(f)(1), or Investment Advisers Act Section 203(k)(1), 15 U.S.C. 80b-3(k)(1), or the continuation thereof, is likely to result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest, including, but not limited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of proceedings on the permanent cease-and-desist order. 


(b) *Content, scope and form of order.* Every temporary cease-and-desist order granted shall: 


(1) Describe the basis for its issuance, including the alleged or threatened violations and the harm that is likely to result without the issuance of an order; 


(2) Describe in reasonable detail, and not by reference to the order instituting proceedings or any other document, the act or acts the respondent is to take or refrain from taking; and 


(3) Be indorsed with the date and hour of issuance. 


(c) *Effective upon service.* A temporary cease-and-desist order is effective upon service upon the respondent. 


(d) *Service: how made.* Service of a temporary cease-and-desist order shall be made pursuant to ยง 201.141(a). The person who serves the order shall promptly file a declaration of service identifying the person served, the method of service, the date of service, the address to which service was made and the person who made service; provided, however, failure to file such a declaration shall have no effect on the validity of the service. 


(e) C*ommission review.* At any time after the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order, the respondent may apply to the Commission to have the order set aside, limited or suspended. The application shall set forth with specificity the facts that support the request. 




