# ยง 223.52   Market-related contract term additions.

(a) *Contract provision.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, each timber sale contract exceeding 1 year in length shall contain a provision for the addition of time to the contract term, under the following conditions:


(i) The Chief of the Forest Service has determined that adverse wood products market conditions have resulted in a drastic reduction in wood product prices applicable to the sale; and


(ii) The purchaser makes a written request for additional time to perform the contract.


(2) The contract term addition provision of the contract must specify the index to be applied to each sale. The Forest Supervisor shall determine and select from paragraph (b) of this section, the index to be used for each sale based on the species and product characteristics, by volume, being harvested on the sale. The index specified shall represent more than one-half of the advertised volume. If none of the indices in paragraph (b) of this section represent more than one-half of the advertised volume, the index specified shall represent the species product combination representing the highest percentage of volume for which there is an index. When the Forest Supervisor determines that the species and potential product characteristics are such that more than one index could be used, the prospectus will state that the Contracting Officer may, upon the purchaser's written request, select an alternative index from paragraph (b) of this section, and may modify the contract by mutual agreement, at time of contract execution, to include an alternative index that the Contracting Officer has determined represents the highest percentage of products the purchaser intends to produce or have produced from the sale. Purchasers seeking a change of index at time of award must substantiate the need for an alternative index by providing the Contracting Officer with a written request that includes a list of products by volume the purchaser intends to produce or expects will be produced from the timber on that sale. In the event a mutual agreement to modify a contract to include an alternative index is not reached at time of contract execution, the index specified in the sample contract shall apply.


(3) A market-related contract term addition provision shall not be included in contracts where the primary management objective requires prompt removal of the timber, such as, timber is subject to rapid deterioration, timber is in a wildland-urban interface area, or hazard trees adjacent to developed sites.


(b) *Determination of drastic wood product price reductions.* (1) The Forest Service shall monitor and use Producer Price Indices, as prepared by the Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), adjusted to a constant dollar base, to determine if market-related contract term additions are warranted.


(i) The Forest Service shall monitor and use only the following indices:


(ii) Preliminary index values will be revised when final index values become available, however, determination of a qualifying quarter will not be revised when final index values become available.


(2) For PPI index codes 0811 and 0812, the Chief of the Forest Service shall determine that a drastic reduction in wood prices has occurred when, for any 2 or more consecutive qualifying quarters, the applicable adjusted price index is less than 88.5 percent of the average of such index for the 4 highest of the 8 calendar quarters immediately prior to the qualifying quarter. A qualifying quarter is a quarter, following the contract award date, where the applicable adjusted index is more than 11.5 percent below the average of such index for the 4 highest of the previous 8 calendar quarters. For PPI index code 3211135, the Chief of the Forest Service shall determine that a drastic reduction in wood prices has occurred when, for any 2 or more consecutive qualifying quarters, the adjusted price index is less than 85 percent of the average of such index for the 4 highest of the 8 calendar quarters immediately prior to the qualifying quarter. A qualifying quarter is a quarter, following the contract award date, where the adjusted index is more than 15 percent below the average of such index for the 4 highest of the previous eight calendar quarters. Qualifying quarter determinations will be made using the Producer Price Indices for the months of March, June, September, and December.


(3) A determination, made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that a drastic reduction in wood product prices has occurred, shall constitute a finding that the substantial overriding public interest justifies the contract term addition.


(c) *Granting market-related contract term additions.* When the Chief of the Forest Service determines, pursuant to this section, that a drastic reduction in wood product prices has occurred, the Forest Service is to notify affected timber sale purchasers. For any contract which has been awarded and has not been terminated, the Forest Service, upon a purchaser's written request, will add 1 year to the contract's terms, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. This 1-year addition includes time outside of the normal operating season.


(1) Additional contract time may not be granted for those portions of the contract:


(i) With a required completion date;


(ii) Where the Forest Service determines that the timber is in need of urgent removal;


(iii) Where timber deterioration or resource damage may result from delay; or


(iv) Where included timber is designated by diameter and delay may change the treatment as a result of trees growing into or out of the specified diameter range(s).


(2) For each additional consecutive quarter in which a contract qualifies for market-related contract term addition, the Forest Service will, upon the purchaser's written request, add an additional 3 months during the normal operating season to the contract, except that no single 3-month addition shall extend the term of a contract by more than 1 year.


(3) No more than 3 years shall be added to a contract's term by market-related contract term addition unless the following conditions are met:


(i) The sale was awarded after December 31, 2006;


(ii) A drastic reduction in wood product prices occurred in at least ten of twelve consecutive quarters during the contract term, but not including the quarter in which the contract was awarded; and


(4) For each qualifying quarter meeting the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the Forest Service will, upon the purchaser's written request, add an additional 3 months during the normal operating season to the contract, except no single 3-month addition shall extend the term of a contract by more than 1 year.


(5) In no event shall a revised contract term exceed 10 years as a result of market-related contract term addition.


(d) *Recalculation of periodic payments.* Where a contract is lengthened as a result of market conditions, any subsequent periodic payment dates shall be delayed 1 month for each month added to the contract's term.



---

[N] [63 FR 24114, May 1, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 37269, June 29, 2005; 71 FR 3411, Jan. 23, 2006; 73 FR 65551, Nov. 4, 2008]




