# § 124.513   Public facility compliance alternative.

(a) *Effect of certification.* The Secretary may certify a facility which meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as a “public facility”. A facility which is so certified is not required to comply with this subpart except as otherwise herein provided.


(b) *Criteria for qualification.* A public facility may qualify for certification under this section if all of the following criteria are met:


(1) It is a facility which is owned and operated by a unit of State or local government or a quasi-public corporation as defined at 42 CFR 124.2(m).


(2) It provides health services without charge or at a substantially reduced rate to persons who are determined by the facility to qualify therefor under a program of discounted health services. A “program of discounted health services” must provide for financial and other objective eligibility criteria and procedures, including notice prior to nonemergency service, that assure effective opportunity for all persons to apply for and obtain a determination of eligibility for such services, including a determination prior to service where requested; *provided that,* such criteria and procedures are not required where the facility makes all services available to all persons at no or nominal charge.


(3)(i) It received, for the three most recent fiscal years, at least 10 percent of its total operating revenue (net patient revenue plus other operating revenue, exclusive of any amounts received, or if not received, claimed, as reimbursement under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act) from State and local tax appropriations or other State and local government revenues, or from a quasi-public corporation as defined at 42 CFR 124.2(m), to cover operating deficits attributable to the provision of discounted services; or


(ii) If provided, in each of the three most recent fiscal years, uncompensated services under this subpart or under programs described by the documentation provided under § 124.513(c)(2) in an amount not less than twice the annual compliance level computed under § 124.503(a).


(c) *Procedures for certification.* To be certified under this section, a facility must submit to the Secretary, in addition to other materials that the Secretary may from time to time require, copies of the following:


(1) Audited financial statements or official State or local government documents (such as annual reports or budget documents), for the three most recent fiscal years, sufficient to show that the facility meets the criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(2) A complete description of its program(s) of discounted health services, including charging and collection policies of the facility, and eligibility criteria and notice and determination procedures used under its program(s) of discounted services.


(d) *Period of effectiveness.* (1) A certification by the Secretary under this section remains in effect until withdrawn. The Secretary may disallow credit under this subpart when the Secretary determines that there has been a material change in any factor upon which certification was based or substantial noncompliance with this subpart. The Secretary may withdraw certification where the change or noncompliance has not been adequately remedied or otherwise continues.


(2) *Deficits*—(i) *Title VI-assisted facilities with assessed deficits.* Where a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has been assessed as having a deficit under § 124.503(b) that has not been made up prior to certification under this section, the facility may make up that deficit by either—


(A) Demonstrating to the Secretary's satisfaction, that it met the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for each year in which a deficit was assessed; or


(B) Providing an additional period of service under this section on the basis of one (or portion of a) year of certification for each year (or portion of a year) of deficit assessed. The period of obligation applicable to the facility under § 124.501(b) shall be extended until the deficit is made up in accordance with the preceding sentence.


(ii) *Title VI-assisted facilities which have not been assessed.* Where any period of compliance under this subpart of a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has not been assessed, the facility will be presumed to have no allowable credit for such period. The facility may either—


(A) Make up such deficit in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; or


(B) Submit an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to § 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Title XVI-assisted facilities.* (A) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act which has an assessed deficit which was not made up prior to certification under this section shall make up that deficit in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section. If it cannot make the showing required by that paragraph, it shall make up the deficit when its certification under this section is withdrawn.


(B) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act whose compliance with this subpart has not been completely assessed will be presumed to have no allowable credit for the unassessed period. The facility may make up the deficit by—


(*1*) Following the procedure of subparagraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section; or


(*2*) Submitting an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to § 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section.



---

[N] [52 FR 46031, Dec. 3, 1987; 52 FR 48362, Dec. 21, 1987]




