# § 660.300   What definitions apply to the regulations for workforce investment systems under title I of WIA?

In addition to the definitions set forth at WIA section 101, the following definitions apply to the regulations in 20 CFR parts 660 through 671: 


*Department or DOL* means the U.S. Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units. 


*Designated region* means a combination of local areas that are partly or completely in a single labor market area, economic development region, or other appropriate contiguous subarea of a State, that is designated by the State under WIA section 116(c), or a similar interstate region that is designated by two or more States under WIA section 116(c)(4). 


*Employment and training activity* means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for an adult or dislocated worker. 


*EO data* means data on race and ethnicity, age, sex, and disability required by 29 CFR part 37 of the DOL regulations implementing section 188 of WIA, governing nondiscrimination. 


*ETA* means the Employment and Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor. 


*Grant* means an award of WIA financial assistance by the U.S. Department of Labor to an eligible WIA recipient. 


*Grantee* means the direct recipient of grant funds from the Department of Labor. A grantee may also be referred to as a recipient. 


*Individual with a disability* means an individual with any disability (as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102)). For purposes of WIA section 188, this term is defined at 29 CFR 37.4. 


*Labor Federation* means an alliance of two or more organized labor unions for the purpose of mutual support and action. 


*Literacy* means an individual's ability to read, write, and speak in English, and to compute, and solve problems, at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the job, in the family of the individual, and in society. 


*Local Board* means a Local Workforce Investment Board established under WIA section 117, to set policy for the local workforce investment system. 


*Obligations* means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and subgrants awarded, goods and services received, and similar transactions during a funding period that will require payment by the recipient or subrecipient during the same or a future period. For purposes of the reallotment process described at 20 CFR 667.150, the Secretary also treats as State obligations any amounts allocated by the State under WIA sections 128(b) and 133(b) to a single area State or to a balance of State local area administered by a unit of the State government, and inter-agency transfers and other actions treated by the State as encumbrances against amounts reserved by the State under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a) for Statewide workforce investment activities. 


*Outlying area* means the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau. 


*Participant* means an individual who has registered under 20 CFR 663.105 or 664.215 and has been determined to be eligible to participate in and who is receiving services (except for follow up services) under a program authorized by WIA title I. Participation commences on the first day, following determination of eligibility, on which the individual begins receiving core, intensive, training or other services provided under WIA title I. 


*Recipient* means an entity to which a WIA grant is awarded directly from the Department of Labor to carry out a program under title I of WIA. The State is the recipient of funds awarded under WIA sections 127(b)(1)(C)(I)(II), 132(b)(1)(B) and 132(b)(2)(B). The recipient is the entire legal entity that received the award and is legally responsible for carrying out the WIA program, even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document. 


*Register* means the process for collecting information to determine an individual's eligibility for services under WIA title I. Individuals may be registered in a variety ways, as described in 20 CFR 663.105 and 20 CFR 664.215. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor. 


*Self certification* means an individual's signed attestation that the information he/she submits to demonstrate eligibility for a program under title I of WIA is true and accurate. 


*State* means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The term “State” does not include outlying areas. 


*State Board* means a State Workforce Investment Board established under WIA section 111. 


*Subgrant* means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money made under a grant by a grantee to an eligible subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by contractual legal agreement, but does not include procurement purchases, nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of *Grant* in this part. 


*Subrecipient* means an entity to which a subgrant is awarded and which is accountable to the recipient (or higher tier subrecipient) for the use of the funds provided. DOL's audit requirements for States, local governments, and non-profit organizations provides guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor at 29 CFR 99.210. 


*Unobligated balance* means the portion of funds authorized by the Federal agency that has not been obligated by the grantee and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized. 


*Vendor* means an entity responsible for providing generally required goods or services to be used in the WIA program. These goods or services may be for the recipient's or subrecipient's own use or for the use of participants in the program. DOL's audit requirements for States, local governments, and non-profit organizations provides guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor at 29 CFR 99.210. 


*Wagner-Peyser Act* means the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended, codified at 29 U.S.C. 49 *et seq.*

*WIA regulations* mean the regulations in 20 CFR parts 660 through 671, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in 20 CFR part 652, subpart C, and the regulations implementing WIA section 188 in 29 CFR part 37.


*Workforce investment activities* mean the array of activities permitted under title I of WIA, which include employment and training activities for adults and dislocated workers, as described in WIA section 134, and youth activities, as described in WIA section 129. 


*Youth activity* means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for youth.




