# § 655.4   What definitions apply to the International Education Programs?

(a) The following terms used in this part and 34 CFR parts 656, 657, 658, 660, 661, and 669 are defined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, 34 CFR 77.1, 34 CFR 600.2, or 34 CFR 668.2:


(1) Academic engagement.


(2) Acquisition.


(3) Applicant.


(4) Application.


(5) Award.


(6) Budget.


(7) Clock hour.


(8) Contract.


(9) Correspondence course.


(10) Credit hour.


(11) Distance education.


(12) Educational program.


(13) EDGAR.


(14) Enrolled.


(15) Equipment.


(16) Facilities.


(17) Fiscal year.


(18) Full-time student.


(19) Graduate or professional student.


(20) Grant.


(21) Grantee.


(22) Grant period.


(23) Half-time student.


(24) Local educational agency.


(25) National level.


(26) Nonprofit.


(27) Project.


(28) Project period.


(29) Private.


(30) Public.


(31) Regular student.


(32) Secretary.


(33) State educational agency.


(34) Supplies.


(35) Undergraduate student.


(b) The following definitions apply to International Education Programs:


*Area studies* means a program of comprehensive study of the aspects of a world area's society or societies, including study of history, culture, economy, politics, international relations, and languages.


*Areas of national need* means the various needs in the government, education, business, and nonprofit sectors for expertise in foreign language, area, and international studies identified by the Secretary as significant for maintaining or improving the security, stability, and economic vitality of the United States.


*Consortium of institutions of higher education* means a group of institutions of higher education that have entered into a cooperative arrangement for the purpose of carrying out a common objective, or a public or private nonprofit agency, organization, or institution designated or created by a group of institutions of higher education for the purpose of carrying out a common objective on their behalf.


*Consultation on areas of national need* means the process that allows the head officials of a wide range of Federal agencies to consult with the Secretary and provide recommendations regarding national needs for expertise in foreign languages and world areas that the Secretary may take into account when identifying areas of national need.


*Diverse perspectives* means a variety of viewpoints relevant to understanding global or international issues in context, especially those derived from scholarly research or sustained professional activities and community engagement abroad, and relevant to building multifaceted knowledge and expertise in area studies, international studies, and the international aspects of professional studies, including issues related to world regions, foreign languages, and international affairs, among stakeholders.


*Educational program abroad* means a program of study, internship, or service learning outside the United States that is part of a foreign language or other international curriculum at the undergraduate or graduate education level.


*Institution of higher education* means an institution that meets the definition in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, as well as an institution that meets the requirements of section 101(a) except that—


(1) It is not located in the United States; and


(2) It applies for assistance under title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, in consortia with institutions that meet the definition in section 101(a).


*Intensive language instruction* means instruction of at least five clock hours per week during the academic year or the equivalent of a full academic year of language instruction during the summer.



---

[N] [89 FR 68757, Aug. 27, 2024]










