# ยง 1753.5   Methods of major construction.

(a) All major construction projects financed by loan funds shall be performed pursuant to a contract approved by RUS and awarded through sealed competitive bidding unless


(1) A specific exception is granted in subparts D, E, F, G, or H, or 


(2) Written RUS approval is obtained. 


(b) *Contract construction.* (1) RUS approval of the borrower's award of the contract is not required if the contractor is selected through sealed competitive bidding, the bid amount is $500,000 or less and the contractor is not a company or organization affiliated with the borrower. This does not relieve the borrower of the requirements of bidding or bid evaluation set contained in this part.


(2) RUS approval of the borrower's award of the contract is required for all other competitively-bid and for negotiated major construction contracts.


(3) The requirements and procedures for sealed competitive bidding are presented in ยง 1753.8(a). The requirements and procedures for negotiation are presented in ยง 1753.8(b). 


(c) *Force account construction.* To obtain RUS approval of the force account method for major construction the borrower must demonstrate its ability to perform major construction based on past force account construction which fully met RUS construction standards and was as cost-effective as contract construction in the area. If the borrower has no record of past performance to support its request, but has adequate equipment and experienced personnel to perform the proposed construction, RUS may approve a small trial project. The requirements and procedures for force account construction are presented in subparts D, E, G, and H. 



---

[N] [54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43716, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16604, Apr. 6, 1999]




