# ยง 21.51   Determining employment handicap.

For the purposes of ยง 21.50, an employment handicap will be found to exist only if a CP or VRC determines that the individual meets each of the following conditions:


(a) *Vocational impairment.* The individual has a vocational impairment; that is, an impairment of the ability to prepare for, obtain, or keep employment in an occupation consistent with his or her abilities, aptitudes, and interests.


(b) *Effects of impairment not overcome.* The individual has not overcome the effects of the individual's impairment of employability through employment in, or qualifying for employment in, an occupation consistent with his or her abilities, aptitudes, and interests. This situation includes an individual who qualifies for a suitable job, but who does not obtain or keep the job for reasons beyond his or her control.


(c) *Contribution of the service-connected disability(ies) to the individual's overall vocational impairment.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the service-connected disability(ies) must contribute in substantial part to the individual's overall vocational impairment. This means that the disability(ies) must have an identifiable, measurable, or observable causative effect on the overall vocational impairment, but need not be the sole or primary cause of the employment handicap.


(2) When determining the individual's overall vocational impairment, the CP or VRC will consider the factors identified in ยง 21.50(c).


(3) For determinations made on applications for vocational rehabilitation filed on or after March 30, 1995, but before October 9, 1996, the individual's service-connected disability(ies) need not contribute to the individual's overall vocational impairment.



---

[N] [72 FR 14042, Mar. 26, 2007]




