# ยง 516.20   Habeas Corpus.

(a) *General.* A soldier may file a writ of habeas corpus to challenge his continued custody (usually in a post court-martial situation) or retention in the Army. As is the case with injunctive relief in the preceding paragraph, installation SJAs and legal advisers must take immediate action.


(b) *Notification to Litigation Division and U.S. Attorney.* The SJA or legal adviser will notify Litigation Division and the responsible U.S. Attorney's Office immediately upon learning that a petition for writ of habeas corpus has been filed. All relevant documentary evidence supporting the challenged action should be assembled immediately.


(c) *Procedures in habeas corpus.* Upon the filing of a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, the court will dismiss the petition, issue the writ, or order the respondent to show cause why it should not be granted. If a writ or order to show cause is issued, the SJA or legal adviser should be prepared to assist the responsible Litigation Division or DOJ attorney in preparing a return and answer. If so directed, the SJA will also prepare a memorandum of points and authorities to accompany the return and answer. The government's response should cover the following: whether the Army has custody of petitioner; whether respondent and petitioner are within the judicial district; and, whether appellate or administrative remedies have been exhausted.


(d) *Writs or orders issued by state courts.* No state court, after being judicially informed that a petitioner is in custody under the authority of the United States, should interfere with that custody or require that petitioner be brought before the state court. A deserter, apprehended by any civil officer having authority to apprehend offenders under the laws of the United States or of any state, district, territory, or possession of the United States, is in custody by authority of the United States. If a writ of habeas corpus is issued by a state court, the SJA or legal adviser will seek guidance from Litigation Division.


(e) *Foreign court orders.* A foreign court should not inquire into the legality of restraint of a person held by U.S. military authority. If a foreign court issues any process in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus, the SJA or legal adviser will immediately report the matter to the appropriate U.S. forces commander and to Litigation Division.




