# § 1065.266   Fourier transform infrared analyzer.

(a) *Application.* For engines that run only on natural gas, you may use a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) analyzer to measure nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC) and nonmethane nonethane hydrocarbon (NMNEHC) for continuous sampling. You may use an FTIR analyzer with any gaseous-fueled engine, including dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, to measure CH_4_ and C_2_H_6_, for either batch or continuous sampling (for subtraction from THC).


(b) *Component requirements.* We recommend that you use an FTIR analyzer that meets the specifications in § 1065.205.


(c) *Measurement principles.* Note that your FTIR-based system must meet the linearity verification in § 1065.307. Use appropriate analytical procedures for interpretation of infrared spectra. For example, EPA Test Method 320 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, and ASTM D6348 (incorporated by reference, see § 1065.1010) are considered valid methods for spectral interpretation. You must use heated FTIR analyzers that maintain all surfaces that are exposed to emissions at a temperature of (110 to 202) °C.


(d) *Hydrocarbon species for NMHC and NMNEHC additive determination.* To determine NMNEHC, measure ethene, ethyne, propane, propene, butane, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, formic acid, and methanol. To determine NMHC, measure ethane in addition to those same hydrocarbon species. Determine NMHC and NMNEHC as described in § 1065.660(b)(4) and (c)(3).


(e) *NMHC and NMNEHC determination from subtraction of CH*_4_*and C*_2_*H*_6_*from THC.* Determine NMHC from subtraction of CH_4_ from THC as described in § 1065.660(b)(3) and NMNEHC from subtraction of CH_4_ and C_2_H_6_ as described § 1065.660(c)(2). Determine CH_4_ as described in § 1065.660(d)(2) and C_2_H_6_ as described § 1065.660(e).


(f) *Interference verification.* Perform interference verification for FTIR analyzers using the procedures of § 1065.366. Certain species can interfere with FTIR analyzers by causing a response similar to the hydrocarbon species of interest. When running the interference verification for these analyzers, use interference species as follows:


(1) The interference species for CH_4_ are CO_2_, H_2_O, and C_2_H_6_.


(2) The interference species for C_2_H_6_ are CO_2_, H_2_O, and CH_4_.


(3) The interference species for other measured hydrocarbon species are CO_2_, H_2_O, CH_4_, and C_2_H_6_.



---

[N] [89 FR 29796, Apr. 22, 2024]






