# § 505.6   Safety and health standards.

(a) *Standards.* Section 5(i)(2) and section 7(g)(2) of the Act provide that “no part of any project or production which is financed in whole or in part under this section will be performed or engaged in under working conditions which are unsanitary or hazardous or dangerous to the health and safety of the employees engaged in such project or production. Compliance with the safety and sanitary laws in the State in which the performance or part thereof is to take place shall be prima facie evidence of compliance. * * *” The applicable safety and health standards shall be those set forth in 29 CFR parts 1910 and 1926, including matters incorporated by reference therein. Evidence of compliance with State laws relating to health and sanitation will be considered prime facie evidence of compliance with the safety and health requirements of the Act, and it shall be sufficient unless rebutted or overcome by a preponderance of evidence of a failure to comply with any applicable safety and health standards set forth in 29 CFR parts 1910 and 1926, including matters incorporated by reference therein.


(b) *Variances.* (1) Variances from standards applied under paragraph (a) of this section may be granted under the same circumstances in which variances may be granted under section 6(b)(6)(A) or 6(d) of the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 655). The procedures for the granting of variances and for related relief are those published in part 1905 of this title.


(2) Any requests for variances shall also be considered requests for variances under the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, and any variance from a standard applied under paragraph (a) of this section and in part 1910 of this title shall be deemed a variance from the standards under both the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 and the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.




