# ยง 505.5   Adequate assurances.

(a) *Initial assurances.* The grantee shall give adequate initial assurances that not less than the prevailing minimum compensation determined in accordance with ยง 505.3 will be paid to all professional performers and related or supporting professional personnel, and that no part of the project or production will be performed under working conditions which are unsanitary or hazardous or dangerous to the health and safety of the employees, by executing and filing with the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts or the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities, as appropriate, Form ESA-38.


(b) *Continuing assurances.* (1) The grantee shall maintain and preserve sufficient records as an assurance of compliance with section 5(i) (1) and (2) and section 7(g) (1) and (2) of the Act and shall make such reports therefrom to the Secretary as necessary or appropriate to assure the adequacy of the assurances given. Such records shall be kept for a period of three (3) years after the end of the grant period to which they pertain. These records shall include the following information relating to each performer and related or supporting professional personnel to whom a prevailing minimum compensation determination applies pursuant to ยง 505.3. In addition the record required in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section shall be kept for all employees engaged in the project or production assisted by the grant.


(i) Name.


(ii) Home address.


(iii) Occupation.


(iv) Basic unit of compensation (such as the amount of a weekly or monthly salary, talent or performance fee, hourly rate or other basis on which compensation is computed), including fringe benefits or amounts paid in lieu thereof.


(v) Work performed for each pay period expressed in terms of the total units of compensation fully and partially completed.


(vi) Total compensation paid each pay period, deductions made, and date of payment, including amounts paid for fringe benefits and the person to whom they were paid, and


(vii) Brief description of any injury incurred while performing under the grant and the dates and duration of disability.


(2) The grantee shall permit the Administrator and the Assistant Secretary or their representatives to investigate and gather data regarding the wages, hours, safety, health, and other conditions and practices of employment related to the project or production, and to enter and inspect such project or production and such records (and make such transcriptions thereof), interview such employees during normal working hours, and investigate such facts, conditions, practices, or matters as may be deemed necessary or appropriate to determine whether the grantee has violated the labor standards contemplated by section 5(i) and section 7(g) of the Act.


(c) *Determination of adequacy.* The Administrator and Assistant Secretary shall determine the adequacy of assurances given pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section within each of their respective areas of responsibilities, and may revise any such determination at any time.



---

[N] [53 FR 23541, June 22, 1988; 53 FR 24171, June 27, 1988, as amended at 82 FR 2227, Jan. 9, 2017]




