# § 301.6011-2   Required use of electronic form.

(a) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:




(1) *Magnetic media or electronic form.* The terms *magnetic media or electronic form* mean any media or form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures or publications, or, in the case of returns filed with the Social Security Administration, Social Security Administration publications. These generally include electronic filing, as well as magnetic tape, tape cartridge, diskette, and other media specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, or publications.








(2) *Machine-readable paper form.* The term “machine-readable paper form” means—


(i) Optical-scan paper form; or


(ii) Any other machine-readable paper form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or Social Security Administration publications.


(3) *Person.* The term “person” includes any person that is required to file a return that is described in paragraph (b) of this section. Thus, the term “person” includes the United States, a State, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, a political subdivision of a State or of a foreign government, or an international organization. In addition, in the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated return, each member of the affiliated group is a separate person.




(b) *Returns required electronically.* (1) If the use of Form 1042-S, Form 1094 series, Form 1095-B, Form 1095-C, Form 1097-BTC, Form 1098, Form 1098-C, Form 1098-E, Form 1098-Q, Form 1098-T, Form 1099 series, Form 3921, Form 3922, Form 5498 series, Form 8027, or Form W-2G is required by the applicable regulations or revenue procedures for the purpose of making an information return, the information required by the form must be submitted electronically, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section. Returns filed electronically must be made in accordance with applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, or instructions.


(2) If the use of Form W-2 (Wage and Tax Statement), Form 499R-2/W-2PR (Withholding Statement (Puerto Rico)), Form W-2VI (U.S. Virgin Islands Wage and Tax Statement), Form W-2GU (Guam Wage and Tax Statement), or Form W-2AS (American Samoa Wage and Tax Statement) is required for the purpose of making an information return, the information required by the form must be submitted electronically, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section. Returns described in this paragraph (b)(2) must be made in accordance with applicable Social Security Administration procedures or publications (which may be obtained from the local office of the Social Security Administration).


(3) If a person is required to make a return for the purpose of section 6050I, and such person is required to file returns described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section electronically, then such person must also file the information required by section 6050I electronically. Returns described in this paragraph (b)(3) must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website, as well as instructions and guidance on the *FinCEN.gov* website.


(4) The Commissioner may exempt certain returns from the electronic requirements of this section through revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(c) *Electronic-filing threshold*—(1) *In general.* No person is required to file information returns electronically in a calendar year unless the person is required to file at least 10 returns during that calendar year. Persons required to file fewer than 10 returns during the calendar year may make the returns on the prescribed paper form or, alternatively, electronically in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) *Machine-readable forms.* Returns made on a paper form under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be machine-readable, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if applicable revenue procedures provide for a machine-readable paper form.


(3) *Special rule for partnerships.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a partnership with more than 100 partners is required to file its information returns covered under paragraph (b) of this section electronically.


(4) *Calculating the number of returns*—(i) *Aggregation of returns.* In calculating whether a person is required to file at least 10 returns under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all the information returns described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section required to be filed during the calendar year are counted in the aggregate. Neither corrected information returns, information returns described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, nor returns other than those described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are taken into account in calculating whether a person is required to file at least 10 returns.


(ii) *Corrected returns.* (A) If an original information return covered by paragraph (b) of this section is required to be filed electronically, any corrected information return corresponding to that original return must also be filed electronically.


(B) If an original information return is permitted to be filed on paper and is filed on paper, any corrected information return corresponding to that original return must be filed on paper.


(5) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:


(i) *Example 1.* During the 2024 calendar year, Company W, is required to file five Forms 1099-INT, *Interest Income,* and five Forms 1099-DIV, *Dividends and Distributions,* for a total of 10 returns covered by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Because Company W is required to file 10 returns as calculated under paragraph (c)(4) of this section during the 2024 calendar year, Company W must file all its 2023 Forms 1099-INT and 1099-DIV electronically.


(ii) *Example 2.* Same facts as paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section (*Example 1*), except after electronically filing its 10 Forms 1099-DIV and 1099-INT, Company W files two corrected Forms 1099-DIV and four corrected Forms 1099-INT. Because Company W electronically filed its original 2023 Forms 1099-DIV and 1099-INT, Company W must electronically file its corrected 2023 Forms 1099-DIV and 1099-INT.


(iii) *Example 3.* Same facts as paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section (*Example 1*), except on May 16, 2024, Company W received cash in excess of $10,000 and must file a Form 8300 by May 31, 2024. Because Company W is required to file information returns covered under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section electronically during the 2024 calendar year, Company W must also file all its Forms 8300 electronically during the 2024 calendar year.


(iv) *Example 4.* Same facts as paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section (*Example 1*), except Company W is not required to file any Forms 1099-INT during calendar year 2024. On December 19, 2023, Company W receives cash in excess of $10,000 and must file a Form 8300 by January 3, 2024. Because Company W is not required to file information returns covered under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section electronically during the 2024 calendar year, Company W is not required to file this Form 8300 electronically.


(v) *Example 5.* During the 2024 calendar year, Partnership P, a partnership with 15 partners, is required to file eight Forms 1099-MISC, *Miscellaneous Information,* and five Forms 1099-INT. Because Partnership P is required to file at least 10 returns covered by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section during the 2024 calendar year, Partnership P must electronically file all its 2022 Forms 1099-MISC and 1099-INT.


(6) *Exclusions from electronic-filing requirements*—(i) *Waivers.* The Commissioner may grant waivers of the requirements of this section in cases of undue hardship. One principal factor in determining hardship will be the amount, if any, by which the cost of filing the return electronically in accordance with this section exceeds the cost of filing the return on paper. A request for a waiver must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website. The waiver request will specify the type of filing (that is, a return required under paragraph (b) of this section) and the period to which it applies. For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a waiver granted for a return under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) will be deemed to have waived the electronic-filing requirement for any returns required to be filed under section 6050I.


(ii) *Exemptions.* The Commissioner may provide exemptions from the requirements of this section to promote effective and efficient tax administration. An exemption will be allowed for filers for whom using the technology required to file in electronic form conflicts with their religious beliefs. A submission claiming an exemption must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(iii) *Additional Exclusion.* If an employer is required to make a final return on Form 941, or a variation thereof, and expedited filing of Forms W-2, Forms 499R-2/W-2PR, Forms W-2VI, Forms W-2GU, or Form W-2AS is required, if the IRS's systems do not support electronic filing, taxpayers will not be required to file electronically (see § 31.6071(a)-1(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter).




(d) *Paper form returns.* Returns submitted on paper forms (whether or not machine-readable) permitted under paragraph (c) of this section shall be in accordance with applicable Internal Revenue Service or Social Security Administration procedures.


(e) *Applicability of current procedures.* Until procedures are prescribed which further implement the mandatory filing on magnetic media provided by this section, a return to which this section applies shall be made in the manner and shall be subject to the requirements and conditions (including the requirement of applying for consent to the magnetic medium) prescribed in the regulations, revenue procedures and Social Security Administration publications relating to the filing of such return on magnetic media. 


(f) *Failure to file.* If a person fails to file an information return on magnetic media when required to do so by this section, the person is deemed to have failed to file the return. In addition, if a person making returns on a paper form under paragraph (c) of this section fails to file a return on machine-readable paper form when required to do so by this section, the person is deemed to have failed to file the return. See sections 6652, 6693, and 6721 for penalties for failure to file certain returns. See also section 6724 and the regulations under section 6721 for the specific rules and limitations regarding the penalty imposed under section 6721 for failure to file on magnetic media.


(g) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to information returns required to be filed during calendar years beginning after December 31, 2023.



---

[N] [T.D. 8081, 51 FR 10348, Mar. 25, 1986, as amended by T.D. 8097, 51 FR 30352, Aug. 26, 1986; T.D. 8140, 52 FR 19137, May 21, 1987; T.D. 8636, 60 FR 66142, Dec. 21, 1995; T.D. 8772, 63 FR 35519, June 30, 1998; T.D. 8992, 67 FR 20907, Apr. 29, 2002; T.D. 9029, 67 FR 77687, Dec. 19, 2002; T.D. 9660, 79 FR 13231, Mar. 10, 2014; T.D. 9804, 81 FR 91768, Dec. 19, 2016; T.D. 9923, 85 FR 74047, Nov. 19, 2020; T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11767, Feb. 23, 2023]








