# § 665.802   Prohibitions.

In addition to the prohibitions specified in § 600.725 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:


(a) Falsify or fail to make and/or file all reports of western Pacific pelagic MUS landings, containing all data and in the exact manner, as required by applicable state law or regulation, as specified in § 665.14(a), provided that the person is required to do so by applicable state law or regulation.


(b) Use a vessel without a valid permit issued under the High Seas Fishing Compliance Act to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, on the high seas, in violation of §§ 665.801(a), and 300.15 of this title.


(c) Use a vessel in the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago without a valid Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(b)(1).


(d) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago without a valid Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to land or transship western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested with longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(b)(2).


(e) Use a vessel in the EEZ around American Samoa without a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(c)(1).


(f) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa without a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to land western Pacific pelagic MUS that were caught with longline gear within the EEZ around American Samoa, in violation of § 665.801(c)(2).


(g) Use a vessel within the EEZ around American Samoa without a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to transship western Pacific pelagic MUS that were caught with longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(c)(3).


(h) Use a vessel in the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll) without either a valid Western Pacific general longline permit, American Samoa longline limited access permit or a Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(d)(1).


(i) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll) without either a valid Western Pacific general longline permit, American Samoa longline limited access permit or a Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to land or transship western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(d)(2).


(j) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, CNMI, Guam, Hawaii, or PRIA, to land or transship western Pacific pelagic MUS caught by other vessels using longline gear, without a valid receiving vessel permit registered for use with that vessel, in violation of § 665.801(e).


(k) Use a vessel in the EEZ around the PRIA employing handline or trolling methods to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS without a valid PRIA pelagic troll and handline fishing permit registered for use for that vessel, in violation of § 665.801(f).


(l) Fish in the fishery after failing to comply with the notification requirements in § 665.803.


(m) Fail to comply with notification requirements set forth in § 665.803 or in any EFP issued under § 665.17.


(n) Fail to comply with a term or condition governing longline gear configuration in § 665.813(k) if using a vessel longer than 40 ft (12.2 m) registered for use with any valid longline permit issued pursuant to § 665.801 to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear south of the Equator (0° lat.).


(o) Use a fishing vessel to retain on board, transship, or land pelagic MUS captured by longline gear in the WCPFC Convention Area, as defined in § 300.211 of this title, in violation of any restriction announced in accordance with § 665.819(d)(2).


(p)-(u) [*Reserved*]


(v) Use longline gear to fish within a longline fishing prohibited area in violation of § 665.806, except as allowed pursuant to an exemption issued under §§ 665.17 or 665.807.


(w) Fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS with longline gear within the protected species zone, in violation of § 665.806(b).


(x) Fail to comply with a term or condition governing the observer program established in § 665.808, if using a vessel registered for use with a Hawaii longline limited access permit, or a vessel greater than 40 ft (12.2 m) LOA registered for use with an American Samoa longline limited access permit to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear.


(y) Fail to comply with other terms and conditions that the Regional Administrator imposes by written notice to either the permit holder or the designated agent of the permit holder to facilitate the details of observer placement.


(z) Fail to fish in accordance with the seabird take mitigation techniques set forth at § 665.815(a) when operating a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit.


(aa)-(bb) [*Reserved*]


(cc) Own or operate a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 while engaged in longline fishing for western Pacific pelagic MUS and fail to be certified for completion of a NMFS protected species workshop, in violation of § 665.814(a).


(dd) Own or operate a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 while engaged in longline fishing for western Pacific pelagic MUS without having on board a valid protected species workshop certificate issued by NMFS or a legible copy thereof, in violation of § 665.814(d).


(ee) Possess light sticks on board a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit at any time during a trip for which notification to NMFS under § 665.803(a) indicated that deep-setting would be done, in violation of § 665.813(d).


(ff) Fail to carry, or fail to use, a line clipper, dip net, or dehooker on a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801, in violation of § 665.812.


(gg) Use or have on board longline gear with metal wire line within 1 meter of the hook when operating a vessel registered for use under a longline permit issued under § 665.801(b) at any time during a trip for which notification to NMFS under § 665.803(a) indicated that deep-setting would be done, in violation of § 665.813(d).


(hh) Fail to handle and release an oceanic whitetip shark in accordance with the requirements set forth at § 665.811(a) when operating a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801, in violation of § 665.811.


(ii) When operating a vessel registered for use under any longline limited access permit issued under § 665.801, fail to comply with the sea turtle handling, resuscitation, and release requirements, in violation of § 665.812(b).


(jj) Engage in shallow-setting from a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 north of the Equator (0° lat.) with hooks other than circle hooks sized 18/0 or larger with an offset not to exceed 10 degrees, in violation of § 665.813(f).


(kk) Engage in shallow-setting from a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 north of the Equator (0° lat.) with bait other than mackerel-type bait, in violation of § 665.813(g).


(ll) Fail to use weighted branch lines or a bird curtain that meets the specifications at § 665.815(a)(1)(i) through (vii) when operating a side-setting vessel that is registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit, when making deep-sets or shallow-sets north of lat. 23° N, or shallow-sets south of lat. 23° N in violation of § 665.815(a)(1).


(mm) Fail to use a line shooter with weighted branch lines to set the main longline, and fail to use a tori line system prior to the first hook being set that meets the specifications of § 665.815(a)(3)(i)(A) through (E) when operating a stern-setting vessel that is registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit and equipped with monofilament main longline, when making deep-sets north of lat. 23° N in violation of § 665.815(a)(3).


(nn) Fail to employ basket-style longline gear such that the mainline is deployed slack when operating a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit north of lat. 23° N, in violation of § 665.815(a)(4).


(oo) Fail to maintain and use blue dye to prepare thawed bait when operating a stern-setting vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit when making shallow-sets, in violation of § 665.815(a)(2)(vi) and (vii).


(pp) Fail to retain, handle, and discharge fish, fish parts, and spent bait, strategically when operating a stern-setting vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit when making shallow-sets, in violation of § 665.815(a)(2)(i) through (iv).


(qq) Fail to begin the deployment of longline gear at least 1 hour after local sunset or fail to complete the setting process before local sunrise from a stern-setting vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit while shallow-setting, in violation of § 665.815(a)(2)(v).


(rr) Fail to handle short-tailed albatrosses that are caught by pelagic longline gear in a manner that maximizes the probability of their long-term survival, in violation of § 665.815(b).


(ss) Engage in shallow-setting from a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit after the shallow-set longline fishery has been closed, or upon notice that that the vessel is restricted from fishing, in violation of § 665.813(b) and (i).


(tt) Fail to immediately retrieve longline fishing gear upon notice that the shallow-set longline fishery has been closed, or upon notice that that the vessel is restricted from fishing, in violation of § 665.813(b).


(uu)-(vv) [*Reserved*]


(ww) Fail to handle seabirds other than short-tailed albatrosses that are caught by pelagic longline gear in a manner that maximizes the probability of their long-term survival, in violation of § 665.815(c).


(xx) Use a large vessel to fish for western Pacific Pelagic MUS within an American Samoa large vessel prohibited area in violation of § 665.806, except as allowed pursuant to an exemption issued under §§ 665.17 or 665.818.


(yy) Fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using gear prohibited under § 665.810 or not permitted by an EFP issued under § 665.17.


(zz) Use a vessel that is greater than 50 ft (15.4 m) LOA to squid jig fish in EEZ waters around American Samoa, CNMI, Guam, Hawaii, or PRIA, without a Western Pacific squid jig fishing permit registered for use with that vessel, in violation of § 665.801(g).



---

[N] [75 FR 2205, Jan. 14, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 37288, June 27, 2011; 76 FR 52889, Aug. 24, 2011; 77 FR 60649, Oct. 4, 2012; 79 FR 64111, Oct. 28, 2014; 85 FR 57997, Sept. 17, 2020; 86 FR 55745, Oct. 7, 2021; 87 FR 25156, Apr. 28, 2022; 89 FR 15063, Mar. 1, 2024]




