# § 422.388   Deposits.

(a) *Insolvency deposit.* (1) At the time of application, an organization must deposit $100,000 in cash or securities (or any combination thereof) into an account in a manner that is acceptable to CMS.


(2) The deposit must be restricted to use in the event of insolvency to help assure continuation of services or pay costs associated with receivership or liquidation.


(3) At the time of the PSO's application for an MA contract and, thereafter, upon CMS's request, a PSO must provide CMS with proof of the insolvency deposit, such proof to be in a form that CMS considers appropriate.


(b) *Uncovered expenditures deposit.* (1) If at any time uncovered expenditures exceed 10 percent of a PSO's total health care expenditures, then the PSO must place an uncovered expenditures deposit into an account with any organization or trustee that is acceptable to CMS.


(2) The deposit must at all times have a fair market value of an amount that is 120 percent of the PSO's outstanding liability for uncovered expenditures for enrollees, including incurred, but not reported claims.


(3) The deposit must be calculated as of the first day of each month required and maintained for the remainder of each month required.


(4) If a PSO is not otherwise required to file a quarterly report, it must file a report within 45 days of the end of the calendar quarter with information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this section.


(5) The deposit required under this section is restricted and in trust for CMS's use to protect the interests of the PSO's Medicare enrollees and to pay the costs associated with administering the insolvency. It may be used only as provided under this section.


(c) A PSO may use the deposits required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to satisfy the PSO's minimum net worth amount required under § 422.382(a) and (b).


(d) All income from the deposits or trust accounts required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, are considered assets of the PSO. Upon CMS's approval, the income from the deposits may be withdrawn.


(e) On prior written approval from CMS, a PSO that has made a deposit under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, may withdraw that deposit or any part thereof if—


(1) A substitute deposit of cash or securities of equal amount and value is made;


(2) The fair market value exceeds the amount of the required deposit; or


(3) The required deposit under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section is reduced or eliminated.



---

[N] [63 FR 25379, May 7, 1998]




