# ยง 1303.46   Recording and posting notices of federal interest.

(a) *Survival of federal interest.* A grant recipient that receives funds under this subpart must file notices of federal interest as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Federal interest cannot be defeated by a grant recipient's failure to file a notice of federal interest.


(b) *Recording notices of federal interest.* (1) If a grant recipient uses federal funds to purchase real property or a facility, excluding modular units, appurtenant to real property, it must record a notice of federal interest in the official real property records for the jurisdiction where the facility is or will be located. The grant recipient must file the notice of federal interest as soon as it uses Head Start funds to either fully or partially purchase a facility or real property where a facility will be constructed or as soon as it receives permission from the responsible HHS official to use Head Start funds to continue purchase on a facility.


(2) If a grant recipient uses federal funds in whole or in part to construct a facility, it must record the notice of federal interest in the official real property records for the jurisdiction in which the facility is located as soon as it receives the notice of award to construct the facility.


(3) If a grant recipient uses federal funds to renovate a facility that it, or a third party owns, the grant recipient must record the notice of federal interest in the official real property records for the jurisdiction in which the facility is located as soon as it receives the notice of award to renovate the facility.


(4) If a grant recipient uses federal funds in whole or in part to purchase a modular unit or to renovate a modular unit, the grant recipient must post the notice of federal interest, in clearly visible locations, on the exterior of the modular unit and inside the modular unit.




