# § 1.305-1   Stock dividends.

(a) *In general.* Under section 305, a distribution made by a corporation to its shareholders in its stock or in rights to acquire its stock is not included in gross income except as provided in section 305(b) and the regulations promulgated under the authority of section 305(c). A distribution made by a corporation to its shareholders in its stock or rights to acquire its stock which would not otherwise be included in gross income by reason of section 305 shall not be so included merely because such distribution was made out of Treasury stock or consisted of rights to acquire Treasury stock. See section 307 for rules as to basis of stock and stock rights acquired in a distribution. 


(b) *Amount of distribution.* (1) In general, where a distribution of stock or rights to acquire stock of a corporation is treated as a distribution of property to which section 301 applies by reason of section 305(b), the amount of the distribution, in accordance with section 301(b) and § 1.301-1, is the fair market value of such stock or rights on the date of distribution. See *Example (1)* of § 1.305-2(b). 


(2) Where a corporation which regularly distributes its earnings and profits, such as a regulated investment company, declares a dividend pursuant to which the shareholders may elect to receive either money or stock of the distributing corporation of equivalent value, the amount of the distribution of the stock received by any shareholder electing to receive stock will be considered to equal the amount of the money which could have been received instead. See *Example (2)* of § 1.305-2(b). 


(3) For rules for determining the amount of the distribution where certain transactions, such as changes in conversion ratios or periodic redemptions, are treated as distributions under section 305(c), see *Examples (6), (8), (9), and (15)* of § 1.305-3(e). 


(c) *Adjustment in purchase price.* A transfer of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or an increase or decrease in the conversion ratio or redemption price of stock which represents an adjustment of the price to be paid by the distributing corporation in acquiring property (within the meaning of section 317(a)) is not within the purview of section 305 because it is not a distribution with respect to its stock. For example, assume that on January 1, 1970, pursuant to a reorganization, corporation X acquires all the stock of corporation Y solely in exchange for its convertible preferred class B stock. Under the terms of the class B stock, its conversion ratio is to be adjusted in 1976 under a formula based upon the earnings of corporation Y over the 6-year period ending on December 31, 1975. Such an adjustment in 1976 is not covered by section 305. 


(d) *Definitions.* (1) For purposes of this section and §§ 1.305-2 through 1.305-7, the term *stock* includes rights or warrants to acquire such stock. 


(2) For purposes of §§ 1.305-2 through 1.305-7, the term *shareholder* includes a holder of rights or warrants or a holder of convertible securities.



---

[N] [T.D. 7281, 38 FR 18532, July 12, 1973; 38 FR 19910, July 25, 1973] 




