# § 190.3   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Administrator* means the Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration or his or her delegate.


*Associate Administrator* means the Associate Administrator for Pipeline Safety, or his or her delegate.


*Chief Counsel* means the Chief Counsel of PHMSA.


*Day* means a 24-hour period ending at 11:59 p.m. Unless otherwise specified, a day refers to a calendar day.


*Emergency order* means a written order issued in response to an imminent hazard imposing restrictions, prohibitions, or safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities, without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing.


*Formal hearing* means a formal review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554, conducted by an administrative law judge.


*Hearing* means an informal conference or a proceeding for oral presentation. Unless otherwise specifically prescribed in this part, the use of “hearing” is not intended to require a hearing on the record in accordance with section 554 of title 5, U.S.C. 


*Imminent hazard* means the existence of a condition relating to a gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facility that presents a substantial likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun to lessen the risk of such death, illness, injury or endangerment.


*New and novel technologies* means any products, designs, materials, testing, construction, inspection, or operational procedures that are not addressed in 49 CFR parts 192, 193, or 195, due to technology or design advances and innovation for new construction. Technologies that are addressed in consensus standards that are incorporated by reference into parts 192, 193, and 195 are not “new or novel technologies.”


*OPS* means the Office of Pipeline Safety, which is part of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation. 


*Operator* means any owner or operator.


*Person* means any individual, firm, joint venture, partnership, corporation, association, State, municipality, cooperative association, or joint stock association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof. 


*Presiding Official* means the person who conducts any hearing relating to civil penalty assessments, compliance orders, orders directing amendment, safety orders, or corrective action orders and who has the duties and powers set forth in § 190.212.


*Regional Director* means the head of any one of the Regional Offices of the Office of Pipeline Safety, or a designee appointed by the Regional Director. Regional Offices are located in Trenton, NJ (Eastern Region); Atlanta, Georgia (Southern Region); Kansas City, Missouri (Central Region); Houston, Texas (Southwest Region); and Lakewood, Colorado (Western Region).


*Respondent* means a person upon whom OPS has served an enforcement action described in this part.


*PHMSA* means the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation. 


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 190-6, 61 FR 18513, Apr. 26, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 11749, Mar. 12, 2003; 70 FR 11137, Mar. 8, 2005; Amdt. 190-15, 74 FR 62505, Nov. 30, 2009; Amdt. 190-16, 78 FR 58908, Sept. 25, 2013; Amdt. 190-18, 81 FR 70985, Oct. 14, 2016; Amdt. 190-19, 82 FR 7995, Jan. 23, 2017; Amdt. 190-21, 84 FR 52026, Oct. 1, 2019]




