# § 63.11566   What definitions apply to this subpart?

*Asphalt coating equipment* means the saturators, coating mixers, and coaters used to apply asphalt to substrate to manufacture roofing products (*e.g.,* shingles, roll roofing).


*Asphalt flux* means the organic residual material from distillation of crude oil that is generally used in asphalt roofing manufacturing and paving and non-paving asphalt products.


*Asphalt processing operation* means any operation engaged in the preparation of asphalt flux at stand-alone asphalt processing facilities, petroleum refineries, and asphalt roofing facilities. Asphalt preparation, called “blowing,” is the oxidation of asphalt flux, achieved by bubbling air through the heated asphalt, to raise the softening point and to reduce penetration of the oxidized asphalt. An asphalt processing facility includes one or more asphalt flux blowing stills.


*Asphalt roofing manufacturing operation* means the collection of equipment used to manufacture asphalt roofing products through a series of sequential process steps. The equipment configuration of an asphalt roofing manufacturing process varies depending upon the type of substrate used (*i.e.,* organic or inorganic). For example, an asphalt roofing manufacturing line that uses organic substrate (*e.g.,* felt) typically would consist of a saturator (and wet looper), coating mixer, and coater (although the saturator could be bypassed if the line manufacturers multiple types of products). An asphalt roofing manufacturing line that uses inorganic (fiberglass mat) substrate typically would consist of a coating mixer and coater.


*Blowing still* means the equipment in which air is blown through asphalt flux to change the softening point and penetration rate of the asphalt flux, creating oxidized asphalt.


*Built-up roofing operations* means operations involved in the on-site (*e.g.,* at a commercial building) assembly of roofing system components (*e.g.,* asphalt, substrate, surface granules).


*Coater* means the equipment used to apply amended (filled or modified) asphalt to the top and bottom of the substrate (typically fiberglass mat) used to manufacture shingles and rolled roofing products.


*Coating mixer* means the equipment used to mix coating asphalt and a mineral stabilizer, prior to applying the stabilized coating asphalt to the substrate.


*Hot-mix asphalt operation* means operations involved in mixing asphalt cement and aggregates to produce materials for paving roadways and hardstand (*e.g.,* vehicle parking lots, prepared surfaces for materiel storage).


*Particulate matter (PM)* means, for the purposes of this subpart, includes any material determined gravimetrically using EPA Method 5A—Determination of Particulate Matter Emissions From the Asphalt Processing And Asphalt Roofing Industry (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3).


*Responsible official* is defined in § 63.2.


*Saturator* means the equipment used to impregnate a substrate (predominantly organic felt) with asphalt. Saturators are predominantly used for the manufacture of rolled-roofing products (*e.g.,* saturated felt). For the purposes of this subpart, the term saturator includes impregnation vat and wet looper.


*Wet looper* means the series of rollers typically following the saturator used to provide additional absorption time for asphalt to penetrate the roofing substrate.




