# § 165.1418   Safety Zone; Cocos Lagoon, Merizo, GU.

(a) *Location.* The following area, within the U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone (See 33 CFR 3.70-15), all navigable waters within a 100-yard radius of race participants in Cocos Lagoon, Merizo, Guam. Race participants, chase boats, and organizers of the event will be exempt from the safety zone.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, “designated on-scene representative” means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel, and a Federal, State, and local officer either designated by or assisting the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in section § 165.23, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or a designated on-scene representative.


(2) This safety zone is closed to all persons and vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the COTP or a designated on-scene representative.


(3) Persons and Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the safety zone must contact the COTP or a designated on-scene representative to obtain permission to do so. The COTP or a designated on-scene representative may be contacted via VHF Channel 16 or at telephone number (671) 355-4821. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the COTP or a designated on-scene representative.


(d) *Enforcement period.* This safety zone will be enforced on the Sunday before Memorial Day from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. annually, unless the event is delayed or cancelled due to weather. The Coast Guard will provide advance notice of enforcement and a broadcast notice to mariners to inform the public of the specific date of the event.



---

[N] [USCG-2020-0460, 86 FR 31622, June 15, 2021, as amended by USCG-2022-0429, 87 FR 48446, Aug. 9, 2022]






