# ยง 1313.13   Requirements of import declaration.

(a) Any List I or List II chemical listed in ยง 1310.02 of this chapter may be imported if that chemical is necessary for medical, commercial, scientific, or other legitimate uses within the United States. Chemical importations into the United States for immediate transfer/transshipment outside the United States must comply with the procedures set forth in ยง 1313.31 and all other applicable laws.


(b) The DEA Form 486/486A must include the following information:


(1) The name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the chemical importer; the name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the broker or forwarding agent (if any); and


(2) The name and description of each listed chemical as it appears on the label or container, the name of each chemical as it is designated in ยง 1310.02 of this chapter, the size or weight of container, the number of containers, the net weight of each listed chemical given in kilograms or parts thereof, and the gross weight of the shipment given in kilograms or parts thereof; and


(3) The date of release by a customs officer at the port of entry, the foreign port and country of export, and the port of entry; and


(4) The name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the consignor in the foreign country of exportation; and


(5) The name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the person or persons to whom the importer intends to transfer the listed chemical and the quantity to be transferred to each transferee.


(c) Any regulated person importing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine must submit, on the import declaration (DEA Form 486A), all information known to the importer on the chain of distribution of the chemical from the manufacturer to the importer. Ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine include each of the salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers of the chemical.


(d) Import declarations shall become void and of no effect 180 calendar days after the date the declaration is deemed filed with the Administration.



---

[N] [81 FR 97036, Dec. 30, 2016]




