# ยง 2552.23   What are a sponsor's project responsibilities?

A sponsor shall:


(a) Focus Foster Grandparent resources, within the project's service area, on providing supportive services and companionship to children with special and exceptional needs, or in circumstances that limit their academic, social or emotional development.


(b) In collaboration with other community organizations or by using existing assessments, assess the needs of the community or service area, and develop strategies to respond to identified needs using Foster Grandparents.


(c) Develop and manage one or more volunteer stations by:


(1) Ensuring that a volunteer station is a public or non-profit private organization, whether secular or faith-based, or an eligible proprietary health care agency, capable of serving as a volunteer station for the placement of Foster Grandparents; 


(2) Ensuring that the placement of Foster Grandparents will be governed by a Memorandum of Understanding:


(i) That is negotiated prior to placement;


(ii) That specifies the mutual responsibilities of the station and sponsor;


(iii) That is renegotiated at least every three years;


(iv) That states the station will not discriminate against FGP volunteers, service beneficiaries, or in the operation of its program on the basis of race, color, national origin including individuals with limited English proficiency, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, disability, gender identity or expression, political affiliation, marital or parental status, or military service; and 


(3) Reviewing volunteer placements regularly to ensure that clients are eligible to be served.


(d) Develop Foster Grandparent service opportunities to support locally-identified needs of eligible children in a way that considers the skills and experiences of Foster Grandparents.


(e) Consider the demographic make-up of the project service area in the enrollment of Foster Grandparents, taking special efforts to recruit eligible individuals from minority groups, persons with disabilities, and under-represented groups.


(f) Provide Foster Grandparents with assignments that show direct and demonstrable benefits to the children and the community served, the Foster Grandparents, and the volunteer station; with required cost reimbursements specified in ยง 2552.46; with 20 hours of pre-service orientation and at least 24 hours annually of in-service training.


(g) Encourage the most efficient and effective use of Foster Grandparents by coordinating project services and activities with related national, state and local programs, including other AmeriCorps programs.


(h) Conduct an annual appraisal of volunteers' performance and annual review of their income eligibility.


(i) Establish written service policies for Foster Grandparents that include but are not limited to:


(1) Annual and sick leave.


(2) Administrative leave, meaning a temporary absence the sponsor allows in extenuating circumstances that prevent the Foster Grandparent from serving or serving safely.


(3) Holidays.


(4) Service schedules.


(5) Termination and appeal procedures.


(6) Meal and transportation reimbursements.


(j) Conduct National Service Criminal History Checks in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 2540.200 through 2540.207.


(k) Provide Foster Grandparent volunteers with cost reimbursements specified in this section.


(l) Make every effort to meet such performance measures as established in the approved grant application.



---

[N] [64 FR 14126, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 61000, Sept. 27, 2002; 69 FR 60095, Oct. 7, 2004; 74 FR 46508, Sept. 10, 2009; 77 FR 60934, Oct. 5, 2012; 83 FR 64650, Dec. 17, 2018; 89 FR 70543, Aug. 30, 2024]




