# § 170.300   Definitions

Terms not defined in this part have the same meaning as provided in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A. As used in this part:


*Applicant* means any entity that applies for a Federal award directly from a Federal agency.


*Entity* includes:


(1) Whether for profit or nonprofit:


(i) A corporation;


(ii) An association;


(iii) A partnership;


(iv) A limited liability company;


(v) A limited liability partnership;


(vi) A sole proprietorship;


(vii) Any other legal business entity;


(viii) Another grantee or contractor that is not excluded by subparagraph (2) or (3); and


(ix) Any State or locality;


(2) Does not include:


(i) An individual recipient of Federal financial assistance; or


(ii) A Federal employee.


*Federal Award* means an award of Federal financial assistance that an entity receives from a Federal agency.


*Executive* means an officer, managing partner, or any other employee holding a management position.


Federal financial assistance:


(1) Means assistance that entities receive or administer in the form of a:


(i) Grant;


(ii) Cooperative agreement (which does not include a cooperative research and development agreement pursuant to the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3710a);


(iii) Loan;


(iv) Loan guarantee;


(v) Subsidy;


(vi) Insurance;


(vii) Food commodity;


(viii) Direct appropriation;


(ix) Assessed or voluntary contribution; or


(x) Any other financial assistance transaction that authorizes the entity's expenditure of Federal funds.


(2) For the purposes of this part, the term “Federal financial assistance” does not include:


(i) Technical assistance that provides services in lieu of money;


(ii) A transfer of title to federally-owned property provided in lieu of money, even if the award is called a grant;


(iii) Any classified Federal award; or


(iv) Any award funded in whole or in part with Recovery funds, as defined in section 1512 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5).


*Recipient* means an entity that receives or administers a Federal Award directly from a Federal agency.


*Total Compensation* means the cash and noncash dollar value an executive earns during an entity's preceding fiscal year. This includes all items of compensation as prescribed in 17 CFR 229.402(c)(2).




