# ยง 108.630   Requirement for NMVC companies to file financial statements and supplementary information with SBA (SBA Form 468).

(a) *Annual filing of Form 468.* For each fiscal year, you must submit to SBA financial statements and supplementary information prepared on SBA Form 468. You must file Form 468 on or before the last day of the third month following the end of your fiscal year, except for the information required under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, which must be filed on or before the last day of the fifth month following the end of your fiscal year.


(1) *Audit of Form 468.* An independent public accountant acceptable to SBA must audit the annual Form 468.


(2) *Insurance requirement for public accountant.* Unless SBA approves otherwise, your independent public accountant must carry at least $1,000,000 of Errors and Omissions insurance, or be self-insured and have a net worth of at least $1,000,000.


(b) *Interim filings of Form 468.* When requested by SBA, you must file interim reports on Form 468. SBA may require you to file the entire form or only certain statements and schedules. You must file such reports on or before the last day of the month following the end of the reporting period. When you submit a request for a draw under an SBA Leverage commitment, you must also comply with any applicable filing requirements set forth in ยง 108.1220.


(c) *Standards for preparation of Form 468.* You must prepare SBA Form 468 in accordance with SBA's Accounting Standards and Financial Reporting Requirements for Small Business Investment Companies, which you may obtain from SBA.


(d) *Where to file Form 468.* Submit all filings of Form 468 to the Office of New Markets Venture Capital in the Investment Division of SBA.


(e) *Reporting of social, economic, or community development impact information on Form 468.* Your annual filing of SBA Form 468 must include an assessment of the social, economic, or community development impact of each Financing. This assessment must specify the fulltime equivalent jobs created, the impact of the Financing on the revenues and profits of the business and on taxes paid by the business and its employees, and a listing of the number and percentage of employees who reside in LI Areas.


(f) *Reporting of community development information.* For each Financing of a Low-Income Enterprise, your Form 468 must include an assessment of such Financing with respect to:


(1) The social, economic or community development benefits achieved as a result of the Financing;


(2) How and to what extent such benefits fulfilled the goals of your comprehensive business plan and Participation Agreement;


(3) Whether you consider the Financing or the results of the Financing to have fulfilled the objectives of the NMVC program; and


(4) Whether, and if so, how you achieved accountability to the residents of the LI Area in connection with that Financing.




