# § 25.281   Transmitter identification requirements for video uplink transmissions.

(a) Earth-to-space transmissions carrying video information with analog modulation must be identified through use of an Automatic Transmitter Identification System (ATIS) with an analog identifier or a direct sequence spread spectrum signal.


(1) Use of an analog identifier must be in accordance with the following requirements:


(i) The ATIS signal must be a separate subcarrier that is automatically activated whenever any radio frequency signal is transmitted.


(ii) The ATIS message must continuously repeat.


(iii) The ATIS subcarrier signal must be generated at a frequency of 7.1 MHz ±25 kHz and modulate the uplink radio frequency carrier at a level no less than −26 dB (referenced to the unmodulated carrier).


(iv) ATIS subcarrier deviation must not exceed 25 kHz.


(v) The ATIS message protocol must be International Morse Code keyed by a 1200 Hz ±800 Hz tone representing a mark and a message rate of 15 to 25 words per minute. The tone must frequency-modulate the subcarrier signal with the ATIS message.


(vi) The ATIS message must include the FCC-assigned call sign of the transmitting earth station, a telephone number providing immediate access to personnel capable of resolving interference or coordination problems, and a unique serial number of ten or more digits programmed into the ATIS message in a permanent manner so that it cannot be readily changed by the operator on duty. Additional information may be included in the ATIS data stream provided the total ATIS message length does not exceed 30 seconds.


(2) Use of a direct sequence spread spectrum ATIS signal must be in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(b) As of September 3, 2017, transmissions of fixed-frequency, digitally modulated video signals with a symbol rate of 128,000/s or more from a temporary-fixed earth station must be identified through use of an ATIS in accordance with the requirements that follow.


(1) The ATIS message must be modulated onto a direct sequence spread spectrum signal in accordance with the DVB-CID standard, ETSI TS 103 129 V1.1.2 (2014-03) (incorporated by reference, *see* § 25.108).


(2) The ATIS message must continuously repeat.


(c) ATIS equipment must be integrated into the uplink transmitter chain with a method that cannot easily be defeated.



---

[N] [79 FR 8325, Feb. 12, 2014; 81 FR 33601, May 31, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 40494, Aug. 25, 2017]




