# ยง 851.3   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part:


*AEA* means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2011 *et seq.*

*Affected worker* means a worker who would be affected by the granting or denial of a variance, or any authorized representative of the worker, such as a collective bargaining agent.


*Closure facility* means a facility that is non-operational and is, or is expected to be permanently closed and/or demolished, or title to which is expected to be transferred to another entity for reuse.


*Closure facility hazard* means a facility-related condition within a closure facility involving deviations from the technical requirements of ยง 851.23 of this part that would require costly and extensive structural/engineering modifications to be in compliance.


*Cognizant Secretarial Officer* means, with respect to a particular situation, the Assistant Secretary, Deputy Administrator, Program Office Director, or equivalent DOE official who has primary line management responsibility for a contractor, or any other official to whom the CSO delegates in writing a particular function under this part.


*Compliance order* means an order issued by the Secretary to a contractor that mandates a remedy, work stoppage, or other action to address a situation that violates, potentially violates, or otherwise is inconsistent with a requirement of this part.


*Consent order* means any written document, signed by the Enforcement Director and a contractor, containing stipulations or conclusions of fact or law and a remedy acceptable to both DOE and the contractor.


*Construction* means combination of erection, installation, assembly, demolition, or fabrication activities involved to create a new facility or to alter, add to, rehabilitate, dismantle, or remove an existing facility. It also includes the alteration and repair (including dredging, excavating, and painting) of buildings, structures, or other real property, as well as any construction, demolition, and excavation activities conducted as part of environmental restoration or remediation efforts.


*Construction contractor* means the lowest tiered contractor with primary responsibility for the execution of all construction work described within a construction procurement or authorization document (*e.g.*, construction contract, work order).


*Construction manager* means the individual or firm responsible to DOE for the supervision and administration of a construction project to ensure the construction contractor's compliance with construction project requirements.


*Construction project* means the full scope of activities required on a construction worksite to fulfill the requirements of the construction procurement or authorization document.


*Construction worksite* is the area within the limits necessary to perform the work described in the construction procurement or authorization document. It includes the facility being constructed or renovated along with all necessary staging and storage areas as well as adjacent areas subject to project hazards.


*Contractor* means any entity, including affiliated entities, such as a parent corporation, under contract with DOE, or a subcontractor at any tier, that has responsibilities for performing work at a DOE site in furtherance of a DOE mission.


*Covered workplace* means a place at a DOE site where a contractor is responsible for performing work in furtherance of a DOE mission.




*Director of the Office of Enforcement (Enforcement Director)* means the DOE official designated by the Secretary, or that person's designee, to carry out the enforcement authorities reflected in subpart E of this part.


*Director of the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security (EHSS Director*) means the DOE official to whom the Secretary assigns the authority to develop policy and technical assistance; safety analysis; and organizational safety and security programs.


*DOE* means the United States Department of Energy, including the National Nuclear Security Administration.


*DOE Enforcement Officer* means a DOE official to whom the Enforcement Director assigns the authority to investigate the nature and extent of compliance with the requirements of this part.


*DOE site* means a DOE-owned or -leased area or location or other area or location controlled by DOE where activities and operations are performed at one or more facilities or places by a contractor in furtherance of a DOE mission.


*Final notice of violation* means a document that determines a contractor has violated or is continuing to violate a requirement of this part and includes:


(1) A statement specifying the requirement of this part to which the violation relates;


(2) A concise statement of the basis for the determination;


(3) Any remedy, including the amount of any civil penalty; and


(4) A statement explaining the reasoning behind any remedy.


*Final Order* means an order of DOE that represents final agency action and, if appropriate, imposes a remedy with which the recipient of the order must comply.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of DOE.


*Head of DOE Field Element* means an individual who is the manager or head of the DOE operations office or field office.


*Interpretative ruling* means a statement by the General Counsel concerning the meaning or effect of a requirement of this part which relates to a specific factual situation but may also be a ruling of general applicability if the General Counsel determines such action to be appropriate.


*National defense variance* means relief from a safety and health standard, or portion thereof, to avoid serious impairment of a national defense mission.


*NNSA* means the National Nuclear Security Administration.


*Nuclear explosive* means an assembly containing fissionable and/or fusionable materials and main charge high-explosive parts or propellants capable of producing a nuclear detonation (*e.g.*, a nuclear weapon or test device).


*Nuclear explosive operation* means any activity involving a nuclear explosive, including activities in which main charge high-explosive parts and pit are collocated.


*Occupational medicine provider* means the designated site occupational medicine director (SOMD) or the individual providing medical services.


*Permanent variance* means relief from a safety and health standard, or portion thereof, to contractors who can prove that their methods, conditions, practices, operations, or processes provide workplaces that are as safe and healthful as those that follow the workplace safety and health standard required by this part.


*Preliminary notice of violation* means a document that sets forth the preliminary conclusions that a contractor has violated or is continuing to violate a requirement of this part and includes:


(1) A statement specifying the requirement of this part to which the violation relates;


(2) A concise statement of the basis for alleging the violation;


(3) Any remedy, including the amount of any proposed civil penalty; and


(4) A statement explaining the reasoning behind any proposed remedy.


*Pressure systems* means all pressure vessels, and pressure sources including cryogenics, pneumatic, hydraulic, and vacuum. Vacuum systems should be considered pressure systems due to their potential for catastrophic failure due to backfill pressurization. Associated hardware (*e.g.*, gauges and regulators), fittings, piping, pumps, and pressure relief devices are also integral parts of the pressure system.


*Remedy* means any action (including, but not limited to, the assessment of civil penalties, the reduction of fees or other payments under a contract, the requirement of specific actions, or the modification, suspension or rescission of a contract) necessary or appropriate to rectify, prevent, or penalize a violation of a requirement of this part, including a compliance order issued by the Secretary pursuant to this part.


*Safety and health standard* means a standard that addresses a workplace hazard by establishing limits, requiring conditions, or prescribing the adoption or use of one or more practices, means, methods, operations, or processes, reasonably necessary or appropriate to provide safe and healthful workplaces.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Energy.


*Temporary variance* means a short-term relief for a new safety and health standard when the contractor cannot comply with the requirements by the prescribed date because the necessary construction or alteration of the facility cannot be completed in time or when technical personnel, materials, or equipment are temporarily unavailable.


*Unauthorized discharge* means the discharge of a firearm under circumstances other than: (1) during firearms training with the firearm properly pointed down range (or toward a target), or (2) the intentional firing at hostile parties when deadly force is authorized.


*Under Secretary* means, with respect to a particular situation, the DOE official who serves as the Under Secretary for Science and Innovation, or Under Secretary for Infrastructure, or the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security/Administrator for National Nuclear Security Administration who has primary line management responsibility for a contractor.


*Variance* means an exception to compliance with some part of a safety and health standard granted by the Under Secretary to a contractor.


*Worker* means an employee of a DOE contractor person who performs work in furtherance of a DOE mission at a covered workplace.


*Workplace hazard* means a physical, chemical, biological, or safety hazard with any potential to cause illness, injury, or death to a person.


(b) Terms undefined in this part that are defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 must have the same meaning as under that Act. 



---

[N] [71 FR 6931, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015; 88 FR 41293, June 26, 2023; 88 FR 86815, Dec. 15, 2023]










