# § 1302.3   Definitions.

(a) *TVA* as used in these regulations, refers to the Tennessee Valley Authority, as created by the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 58, *as amended,* 16 U.S.C. 831-831dd. *See also* paragraph (e) of § 1302.6.


(b) *Recipient* refers to any person, group, or other entity which either receives financial assistance from TVA, or which has been denied such assistance.


(c) *Assistant Attorney General* refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, Department of Justice.


(d) *Title VI* refers to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d, *et seq.*

(e) *Program or activity* and *program* refer to all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.



---

[N] [49 FR 20481, May 15, 1984; 49 FR 47383, Dec. 4, 1984, as amended at 68 FR 51355, Aug. 26, 2003]




