# § 1003.210   Amount of penalties and assessments.

(a) *Penalties.* (1) Except as provided in this section, the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $20,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each individual violation that is subject to a determination under this subpart.


(2) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $15,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $30,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each person with respect to whom a determination was made that false or misleading information was given under § 1003.200(b)(2).


(3) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $20,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, per day for each day that the prohibited relationship described in § 1003.200(b)(3) occurs.


(4) For each individual violation of § 1003.200(b)(4), the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $20,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each separately billable or non-separately-billable item or service provided, furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an excluded individual or entity.


(5) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each bill or request for payment for items and services furnished to a hospital patient in violation of § 1003.200(b)(5).


(6) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $50,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $100,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in violation of § 1003.200(b)(7).


(7) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $50,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $100,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each false record or statement in violation of § 1003.200(b)(9).


(8) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $20,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each item or service related to an overpayment that is not reported and returned in accordance with section 1128J(d) of the Act in violation of § 1003.200(b)(8).


(9) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $15,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and not more than $30,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018, for each day of failure to grant timely access in violation of § 1003.200(b)(10).


(10) For each false certification in violation of § 1003.200(c), the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than the greater of:


(i) $5,000 for conduct that occurred on or before February 9, 2018, and $10,000 for conduct that occurred after February 9, 2018; or


(ii) Three times the amount of Medicare payments for home health services that are made with regard to the false certification of eligibility by a physician, as prohibited by section 1814(a)(2)(C) or 1835(a)(2)(A) of the Act.


(11) For each false certification in violation of § 1003.200(d), the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than—


(i) $1,000 with respect to an individual who willfully and knowingly falsely certifies a material and false statement in a resident assessment; and


(ii) $5,000 with respect to an individual who willfully and knowingly causes another individual to falsely certify a material and false statement in a resident assessment.


(b) *Assessments.* (1) Except for violations of § 1003.200(b)(4), (5), and (7), and § 1003.200(c) and (d), the OIG may impose an assessment for each individual violation of § 1003.200, of not more than 3 times the amount claimed for each item or service.


(2) For violations of § 1003.200(b)(4), the OIG may impose an assessment of not more than 3 times—


(i) The amount claimed for each separately billable item or service provided, furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an excluded individual or entity or


(ii) The total costs (including salary, benefits, taxes, and other money or items of value) related to the excluded individual or entity incurred by the person that employs, contracts with, or otherwise arranges for an excluded individual or entity to provide, furnish, order, or prescribe a non-separately-billable item or service.


(3) For violations of § 1003.200(b)(7), the OIG may impose an assessment of not more than 3 times the total amount claimed for each item or service for which payment was made based upon the application containing the false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of material fact.



---

[N] [81 FR 88357, Dec. 7, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 42839, 42841, July 3, 2023]




