# § 1355.57   Cost allocation for CCWIS projects.

(a) *CCWIS cost allocation for projects transitioning to CCWIS.* (1) All automated functions developed after the transition period for projects meeting the requirements of § 1355.56(b) or § 1355.56(f)(1) must meet the CCWIS design requirements described under § 1355.53(a), unless exempted by § 1355.53(b)(2).


(2) The Department may approve the applicable CCWIS cost allocation for an automated function of a project transitioning to a CCWIS if the automated function:


(i) Supports programs authorized under titles IV-B or IV-E, and at least one requirement of § 1355.52 or, if applicable § 1355.54; and


(ii) Is not duplicated within the CCWIS or systems supporting child welfare contributing agencies and is consistently used by all child welfare users responsible for the area supported by the automated function.


(b) *CCWIS cost allocation for new CCWIS projects.* (1) Unless exempted in accordance with § 1355.53(b)(2), all automated functions of a new CCWIS project must meet the CCWIS design requirements described under § 1355.53(a).


(2) An automated function of a CCWIS project described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may qualify for a CCWIS cost allocation if the automated function:


(i) Supports programs authorized under titles IV-B or IV-E, and at least one requirement of § 1355.52 or, if applicable § 1355.54; and


(ii) Is not duplicated within the CCWIS or systems supporting child welfare contributing agencies and is consistently used by all child welfare users responsible for the area supported by the automated function.


(c) *CCWIS cost allocation for approved activities.* The Department may approve a CCWIS cost allocation for an approved activity for a CCWIS project meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.


(d) *Project cost allocation.* A title IV-E agency must allocate project costs in accordance with applicable HHS regulations and other guidance.


(e) *CCWIS cost allocation.* (1) A title IV-E agency may allocate CCWIS development and operational costs to title IV-E for the share of approved activities and automated functions that:


(i) Are approved by the Department;


(ii) Meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section; and


(iii) Benefit federal, state or tribal funded participants in programs and allowable activities described in title IV-E of the Act to the title IV-E program.


(2) A title IV-E agency may also allocate CCWIS development costs to title IV-E for the share of system approved activities and automated functions that meet requirements (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section and:


(i) Benefit title IV-B programs; or


(ii) Benefit both title IV-E and child welfare related programs.


(f) *Non-CCWIS cost allocation.* Title IV-E costs not previously described in this section may be charged to title IV-E in accordance with § 1356.60(d) .



---

[N] [81 FR 35481, June 2, 2016]




