# § 184.1443a   Malt.

(a) Malt is an enzyme preparation obtained from barley which has been softened by a series of steeping operations and germinated under controlled conditions. It is a brown, sweet, and viscous liquid or a white to tan powder. Its characterizing enzyme activities are α-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1.) and β-amylase (EC 3.2.1.2).


(b) The ingredient meets the general requirements and additional requirements for enzyme preparations in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d ed. (1981), p. 110, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the Office of Premarket Approval (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as GRAS as a direct food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an enzyme as defined in § 170.3(o)(9) of this chapter to hydrolyze starch or starch-derived polysaccharides.


(2) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.



---

[N] [60 FR 32911, June 26, 1995]




