# ยง 180.350   Applicability and definitions.

This subpart prescribes requirements, in addition to those contained in parts 107, 171, 172, 173 and 178 of this subchapter, applicable to any person responsible for the continuing qualification, maintenance, or periodic retesting of an IBC. The following definitions apply:


(a) *Remanufactured IBCs* are metal, rigid plastic or composite IBCs produced as a UN type from a non-UN type, or are converted from one UN design type to another UN design type. Remanufactured IBCs are subject to the same requirements of this subchapter that apply to new IBCs of the same type (also see ยง 178.801(c)(1) of this subchapter for design type definition).


(b) *Repaired IBCs* are metal, rigid plastic or composite IBCs that, as a result of impact or for any other cause (such as corrosion, embrittlement or other evidence of reduced strength as compared to the design type), are restored so as to conform to the design type and to be able to withstand the design type tests. For the purposes of this subchapter, the replacement of the rigid inner receptacle of a composite IBC with one from the original manufacturer is considered a repair. Routine maintenance of IBCs (see definition in paragraph (c) of this section) is not considered repair. The bodies of rigid plastic IBCs and the inner receptacles of composite IBCs are not repairable.


(c) Routine maintenance of IBCs is the routine performance on:


(1) Metal, rigid plastic or composite IBCs of operations such as:


(i) Cleaning;


(ii) Removal and reinstallation or replacement of body closures (including associated gaskets), or of service equipment conforming to the original manufacturer's specifications provided that the leaktightness of the IBC is verified; or


(iii) Restoration of structural equipment not directly performing a hazardous material containment or discharge pressure retention function so as to conform to the design type (for example, the straightening of legs or lifting attachments), provided the containment function of the IBC is not affected.


(2) Plastics or textile flexible IBCs of operations, such as:


(i) Cleaning; or


(ii) Replacement of non-integral components, such as non-integral liners and closure ties, with components conforming to the original manufacturer's specification; provided that these operations do not adversely affect the containment function of the flexible IBC or alter the design type.



---

[N] [68 FR 45042, July 31, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 76186, Dec. 20, 2004; 76 FR 3389, Jan. 19, 2011]




