# ยง 2565.3   Subdivision.

(a) *Subdivision of land and payment therefore.* After the entry is made, the townsite will be subdivided by the United States into blocks, lots, streets, alleys, and municipal public reservations. The expense of such survey will be paid from the appropriation for surveys in Alaska reimbursable from the lot assessments collected. 


(b) *Lot assessments.* The trustee will assess against each lot, according to area, its share of the cost of the subdivisional survey. The trustee will make a valuation of each occupied or improved lot in the townsite and assess upon such lots, according to their value, such rate and sum in addition to the cost of their share of the survey as will be necessary to pay all other expenses incident to the execution of his trust which have accrued up to the time of such levy. More than one assessment may be made if necessary to effect the purpose of the Act of March 3, 1891, and this section. 


(c) *Award and disposition of lots after subdivisional survey.* On the acceptance of the plat by the Bureau of Land Management, the trustee will publish a notice that he will, at the end of 30 days from the date thereof, proceed to award the lots applied for, and that all lots for which no applications are filed within 120 days from the date of said notice will be subject to disposition to the highest bidder at public sale. Only those who were occupants of lots or entitled to such occupancy at the date of the approval of final subdivisional townsite survey or their assigns thereafter, are entitled to the allotments herein provided. Minority and coverture are not disabilities. 




