# ยง 45.44   What are the requirements for depositions?

(a) *Motion and notice.* Except upon agreement of the parties, a party wishing to take a deposition must file a motion under ยง 45.41(c). Any notice of deposition filed with the motion must state:


(1) The time and place that the deposition is to be taken;


(2) The name and address of the person before whom the deposition is to be taken;


(3) The name and address of the witness whose deposition is to be taken; and


(4) Any documents or materials that the witness is to produce.


(b) *ALJ order.* The ALJ will issue an order under ยง 45.41(b) with respect to any discovery motion requesting the taking of a deposition. The order will:


(1) Grant the motion and approve the taking of the deposition, subject to any conditions or restrictions the ALJ may impose; or


(2) Deny the motion.


(c) *Arrangements.* If the parties agree to or the ALJ approves the taking of the deposition, the party requesting the deposition must make appropriate arrangements for necessary facilities and personnel.


(1) The deposition will be taken at the time and place agreed to by the parties or indicated in the ALJ's order.


(2) The deposition may be taken before any disinterested person authorized to administer oaths in the place where the deposition is to be taken.


(3) Any party that objects to the taking of a deposition because of the disqualification of the person before whom it is to be taken must do so:


(i) Before the deposition begins; or


(ii) As soon as the disqualification becomes known or could have been discovered with reasonable diligence.


(4) A deposition may be taken by telephone conference call, if agreed to by the parties or approved in the ALJ's order.


(d) *Testimony.* Each witness deposed must be placed under oath or affirmation, and the other parties must be given an opportunity for cross-examination.


(e) *Representation of witness.* The witness being deposed may have counsel or another representative present during the deposition.


(f) *Recording and transcript.* Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the deposition must be stenographically recorded and transcribed at the expense of the party that requested the deposition.


(1) Any other party may obtain a copy of the transcript at its own expense.


(2) Unless waived by the deponent, the deponent will have 3 days after receiving the transcript to read and sign it.


(3) The person before whom the deposition was taken must certify the transcript following receipt of the signed transcript from the deponent or expiration of the 3-day review period, whichever occurs first.


(g) *Video recording.* The testimony at a deposition may be recorded on videotape, subject to any conditions or restrictions that the parties may agree to or the ALJ may impose, at the expense of the party requesting the recording.


(1) The video recording may be in conjunction with an oral examination by telephone conference held under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(2) After the deposition has been taken, the person recording the deposition must:


(i) Provide a copy of the videotape to any party that requests it, at the requesting party's expense; and


(ii) Attach to the videotape a statement identifying the case and the deponent and certifying the authenticity of the video recording.


(h) *Use of deposition.* A deposition may be used at the hearing as provided in ยง 45.53.




