# § 160.115-13   Approval inspections and tests for prototype winches.

(a) If the manufacturer is notified that the information submitted in accordance with § 160.115-9 of this subpart is satisfactory to the Commandant, the manufacturer may proceed with fabrication of the prototype winch and the approval inspections and tests required under this section.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the Coast Guard must conduct the approval inspections and witness the approval tests required under this section.


(c) *Manufacturer requirements.* To proceed with approval inspections and tests required by this section, the manufacturer must—


(1) Notify the Commandant and cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) of where the approval inspections and tests required under this section will take place, and such notifications must be in sufficient time to allow making travel arrangements;


(2) Arrange a testing schedule that allows for a Coast Guard inspector to travel to the site where the testing is to be performed;


(3) Admit the Coast Guard inspector to any place where work or testing is performed on winches or their component parts and materials for the purpose of—


(i) Conducting inspections as necessary to determine that the prototype—


(A) Conforms with the plans reviewed under § 160.115-9 of this subpart;


(B) Is constructed by the methods and with the materials specified in the plans reviewed under § 160.115-9 of this subpart; and


(C) When welding is part of the construction process, is constructed by the welding procedure and materials as per the plans reviewed under § 160.115-9 of this subpart and the welders are appropriately qualified;


(ii) Assuring that the quality-assurance program of the manufacturer is satisfactory;


(iii) Witnessing tests; and


(iv) Taking samples of parts or materials for additional inspections or tests; and


(4) Make available to the Coast Guard inspector the affidavits or invoices from the suppliers of all essential materials used in the production of winches, together with records identifying the lot or serial numbers of the winches in which such materials were used.


(d) *Tests.* (1) *IMO Revised recommendation on testing.* Each prototype winch of each design must pass each of the tests described in IMO Revised recommendation on testing, part 1, paragraph 8.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.115-5 of this subpart) applicable to winches.


(2) *Visual inspection.* Each winch must be visually inspected to confirm—


(i) Compliance with this subpart;


(ii) Conformance with the examined plans; and


(iii) Ease of operation and maintenance.


(3) *Hydraulic controls.* If the winch motor includes a fluid power and control system, a test of the hydraulic controls must be conducted in accordance with 46 CFR 58.30-35.


(4) *Winch drum.* Each winch designed without grooved drums must demonstrate during prototype testing that the falls wind evenly on and off each drum.


(e) *Test waiver.* The Commandant may waive certain tests for a winch similar in construction to a winch that has successfully completed the tests.


(f) At the request of the manufacturer and discretion of the Commandant, an independent laboratory may perform approval inspections and witness approval tests required by this section so long as the inspections and tests are performed and witnessed in accordance with the procedures agreed upon between the independent laboratory and Commandant under 46 CFR part 159, subpart 159.010.


(g) After completion of approval inspections and tests required by this section, the manufacturer must comply with the requirements of 46 CFR 159.005-9(a)(5) by preparing and submitting to the Commandant for review—


(1) The prototype approval test report containing the same information recommended by IMO MSC Circ. 980 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.115-5). The report must include a signed statement by the Coast Guard inspector (or independent laboratory as permitted under paragraph (f) of this section) who witnessed the testing, indicating that the report accurately describes the testing and its results; and


(2) The final version of the plans required under § 160.115-9 of this subpart.


(h) The Commandant will review the report and plans submitted under paragraph (g) of this section, and if satisfactory to the Commandant, will approve the plans under 46 CFR 159.005-13.



---

[N] [USCG-2010-0048, 76 FR 62976, Oct. 11, 2011, as amended by 79 FR 44139, July 30, 2014]




