# ยง 300.9   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *Starting to report under the guidelines.* An entity may report emissions and sequestration on an annual basis beginning in any year, but no earlier than the base period of 1987-1990 specified in the Energy Policy Act of 1992. To be recognized under these guidelines, all reports must conform to the measurement methods established by the Technical Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see ยง 300.13).


(b) *Revisions to reports submitted under the guidelines.* (1) Once EIA has accepted a report under this part, it may be revised by the reporting entity only under the circumstances specified in this paragraph and related provisions of the Technical Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see ยง 300.13). In general:


(i) Revised reports may be submitted to correct errors that have a significant effect on previously estimated emissions or emission reductions; and


(ii) Emission inventories may be revised in order to create a consistent time series based on improvements in the emission estimation or measurement techniques used.


(2) Reporting entities must provide the corrected or improved data to EIA, together with an explanation of the significance of the change and its justification.


(3) If a change in calculation methods (for inventories or reductions) is made for a particular year, the reporting entity must, if feasible, revise its base value to assure methodological consistency with the reporting year value.


(c) *Definition and deadline for annual reports.* Entities must report emissions on a calendar year basis, from January 1 to December 31. To be included in the earliest possible EIA annual report of greenhouse gas emissions reported under this part, entity reports that have not been independently verified must be submitted to DOE no later than July 1 for emissions occurring during the previous calendar year. Reports that have been independently verified must be submitted by September 1 for emissions occurring during the previous year.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* Entities intending to register reductions must maintain adequate supporting records of base period data for the duration of their participation in the 1605(b) program. Supporting records for all reporting year data must be maintained for at least three years subsequent to the relevant reporting year to enable verification of all information reported. The records should document the basis for the entity's report to EIA, including:


(1) The content of entity statements, including the identification of the specific facilities, buildings, land holding and other operations or emission sources covered by the entity's reports and the legal, equity, operational and other bases for their inclusion;


(2) Information on the identification and assessment of changes in entity boundaries, processes or products that might have to be reported to EIA;


(3) Any agreements or relevant communications with other entities or third parties regarding the reporting of emissions or emission reductions associated with sources the ownership or operational control of which is shared;


(4) Information on the methods used to measure or estimate emissions, and the data collection and management systems used to gather and prepare this data for inclusion in reports;


(5) Information on the methods used to calculate emission reductions, including the basis for:


(i) The selection of the specific output measures used, and the data collection and management systems used to gather and prepare output data for use in the calculation of emission reductions;


(ii) The selection and modification of all base years, base periods and baselines used in the calculation of emission reductions;


(iii) Any baseline adjustments made to reflect acquisitions, divestitures or other changes;


(iv) Any models or other estimation methods used; and


(v) Any internal or independent verification procedures undertaken.


(e) *Confidentiality.* DOE will protect trade secret and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). An entity must clearly indicate in its 1605(b) report the information for which it requests confidentiality. DOE will handle requests for confidentiality of information submitted in 1605(b) reports in accordance with the process established in DOE's Freedom of Information regulations at 10 CFR ยง 1004.11.




