# § 347.212   FDIC approval to conduct activities that are not permissible for federal branches.

(a) *Scope.* A foreign bank operating an insured state branch which desires to engage in or continue to engage in any type of activity that is not permissible for a federal branch, pursuant to the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 21 *et seq.*) or any other federal statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, must file a written application for permission to conduct such activity with the FDIC.


(b) *Exceptions.* If the FDIC has already determined, pursuant to part 362 of this chapter, “Activities and Investment of Insured State Banks,” that an activity does not present a significant risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund, no application is required under paragraph (a) of this section for a foreign bank operating an insured branch to engage or continue to engage in the same activity.


(c) *Agency activities.* A foreign bank operating an insured state branch is not required to submit an application pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to engage in or continue engaging in an activity conducted as agent if the activity is:


(1) permissible agency activity for a state-chartered bank located in the state which the state-licensed insured branch of the foreign bank is located;


(2) permissible agency activity for a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank located in that state; and


(3) permissible pursuant to any other applicable federal law or regulation.


(d) *Conditions of approval.* (1) Approval of such an application required by paragraph (a) of this section may be conditioned on the agreement by the foreign bank and its insured state branch to conduct the activity subject to specific limitations, which may include pledging of assets in excess of the asset pledge and asset maintenance requirements contained in §§ 347.209 and 347.210.


(2) In the case of an application to initially engage in an activity, as opposed to an application to continue to conduct an activity, the insured state branch shall not commence the activity until it has been approved in writing by the FDIC pursuant to this part and the FRB, and any and all conditions imposed in such approvals have been satisfied.


(e) *Divestiture or cessation.* (1) If an application for permission to continue to conduct an activity is not approved by the FDIC or the FRB, the applicant shall submit a plan of divestiture or cessation of the activity to the appropriate regional director.


(2) A foreign bank operating an insured state branch which elects not to apply to the FDIC for permission to continue to conduct an activity which is rendered impermissible by any change in statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction shall submit a plan of divestiture or cessation to the appropriate regional director.


(3) All plans of divestitures or cessation required by this paragraph must be completed within one year from the date of the disapproval, or within such shorter period as the FDIC may direct.


(f) *Procedures.* Procedures for applications under this section are set out in section 303.187.



---

[N] [70 FR 17560, Apr. 6, 2005; 70 FR 20704, Apr. 21, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 20527, Apr. 21, 2006]




