# ยง 1005.431   Acceptance of individual residential water purification.

If a property does not have access to a continuing supply of safe and potable water as part of its plumbing system without the use of a water purification system, the requirements of this section apply. The Direct Guarantee Lender must provide appropriate documentation with the submission for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to address each of the requirements of this section.


(a) *Equipment.* Water purification equipment must be approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory acceptable to Tribal, State, or local health authority.


(b) *Certification by Tribal, State, or local health authority.* A Tribal, State, or local health authority certification must be submitted to HUD, which certifies that a point-of entry or point-of-use water purification system is used for the water supply, the treatment equipment meets the requirements of the Tribal, State, or local health authority, and has been determined to meet Tribal, State, or local health authority quality standards for drinking water. If neither Tribal, State, nor local health authority standards are applicable, then quality shall be determined in accordance with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. (EPA standards are prescribed in the National Primary Drinking Water requirements, 40 CFR parts 141 and 142.)


(c) *Borrower notices and certification.* (1) The prospective Borrower must have received written notification, when the Borrower signs a sales contract, that the property does not have access to a continuing supply of safe and potable water without the use of a water purification system to remain safe and acceptable for human consumption.


(2) Prior to final ratification of the sales contract, the Borrower must have received:


(i) A water safety report identifying specific contaminants in the water supply serving the property, and the related health hazard arising from the presence of those contaminants.


(ii) A written good faith estimate of the maintenance and replacement costs of the equipment necessary to assure continuing safe drinking water.


(3) The prospective Borrower must sign a certification, acknowledging the required notices have been received by the Borrower, in the form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, at the time the application for mortgage credit approval is signed by the Direct Guarantee Lender. The required certification must be submitted to HUD with the request for the Loan Guarantee Certificate.






