# § 304.3   Reports.

(a) *Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income, Forms FFIEC 031, 041, and 051.* Pursuant to section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)) and other applicable law, every insured depository institution is required to file Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (also known as the Call Report) in accordance with the instructions for these reports. All assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and liabilities, must be reported in, or otherwise taken into account in the preparation of, the Call Report. The FDIC uses Call Report data from all insured depository institutions to calculate deposit insurance assessments and monitor the condition, performance, and risk profile of individual banks and the banking industry. Reporting banks must also submit annually such information on small business and small farm lending as the FDIC may need to assess the availability of credit to these sectors of the economy. The report forms and instructions can be obtained from the Division of Insurance and Research (DIR), FDIC, 550 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20429 or through the website of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, *http://www.ffiec.gov/.*

(b) *Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, Form FFIEC 002.* Pursuant to section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)) and other applicable law, every insured U.S. branch of a foreign bank is required to file a Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks in accordance with the instructions for the report. All assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and liabilities, must be reported in, or otherwise taken into account in the preparation of the report. The FDIC uses the reported data to calculate deposit insurance assessments and monitor the condition, performance, and risk profile of individual insured branches and the banking industry. Insured branches must also submit annually such information on small business and small farm lending as the FDIC may need to assess the availability of credit to these sectors of the economy. Because the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System collects and processes this report on behalf of the FDIC, the report forms and instructions can be obtained from Federal Reserve District Banks or through the website of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, *http://www.ffiec.gov/.*

(c) *Summary of Deposits, Form FDIC 8020/05.* Form 8020/05 is a report on the amount of deposits for each authorized office of an insured depository institution with branches; institutions with only a main office are exempt from reporting. Reports as of June 30 of each year must be submitted no later than the immediately succeeding July 31. The report forms and the instructions for completing the reports will be furnished to all such institutions by, or may be obtained upon request from, the Division of Insurance and Research (DIR), FDIC, 550 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20429.


(d) *Notification of Performance of Bank Services, Form FDIC 6120/06.* Pursuant to section 7 of the Bank Service Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1867), as amended, FDIC-supervised institutions must notify the agency about the existence of a service relationship within thirty days after the making of the contract or the performance of the service, whichever occurs first. Form FDIC 6120/06 may be used to satisfy the notice requirement. The form contains identification, location, and contact information for the institution, the servicer, and a description of the services provided. In lieu of the form, notification may be provided by letter. Either the form or the letter containing the notice information must be submitted to the regional director—Division of Risk Management Supervision (RMS) of the region in which the institution's main office is located.


