# ยง 585.210   What are the steps in BOEM's competitive lease award process?

(a) BOEM may publish an RFI under ยง 585.116.


(b) BOEM will award leases through a competitive lease award process unless competitive interest does not exist. BOEM will publish details for each auction and lease through appropriate notices in the _Federal Register._ Each competitive lease award process will include the following steps:


(1) *Call for information and nominations (Call).* BOEM will publish a Call in the _Federal Register_ requesting information to determine qualifications of prospective bidders and interest in preliminarily identified OCS lease areas.


(2) *Area identification.* BOEM will identify OCS areas for leasing consideration and related analysis in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, State and local governments, federally recognized Tribes, Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) corporations, and other interested parties.


(3) *Proposed Sale Notice (PSN).* BOEM will publish a PSN, or a notice of its availability, in the _Federal Register,_ announcing BOEM's intention to conduct an auction for prospective lease areas. The PSN will set forth provisions and information concerning the proposed auction and lease and will invite stakeholder comments.


(4) *Final Sale Notice (FSN).* BOEM will publish an FSN, or a notice of its availability, in the _Federal Register_ setting forth final information concerning the auction and lease.


(5) *Auction.* BOEM will hold an auction under the regulations in this part and the FSN.


(6) *Lease award.* BOEM will award leases subsequent to the completion of the aforementioned steps under the regulations in this part and the FSN.






