# § 5.661   Section 8 project-based assistance programs: Approval for police or other security personnel to live in project.

(a) *Applicability.* This section describes when a Section 8 owner may lease a Section 8 unit to police or other security personnel with continued Section 8 assistance for the unit. This section applies to the Section 8 project-based assistance programs. 


(b) *Terms.* (1) *Security personnel* means: 


(i) A police officer, or 


(ii) A qualified security professional, with adequate training and experience to provide security services for project residents. 


(2) *Police officer* means a person employed on a full-time basis as a duly licensed professional police officer by a Federal, State or local government or by any agency of these governments. 


(3) *Security* includes the protection of project residents, including resident project management from criminal or other activity that is a threat to person or property, or that arouses fears of such threat. 


(c) *Owner application.* (1) The owner may submit a written application to the contract administrator (PHA or HUD) for approval to lease an available unit in a Section 8 project to security personnel who would not otherwise be eligible for Section 8 assistance, for the purpose of increasing security for Section 8 families residing in the project.


(2) The owner's application must include the following information: 


(i) A description of criminal activities in the project and the surrounding community, and the effect of criminal activity on the security of project residents. 


(ii) Qualifications of security personnel who will reside in the project, and the period of residence by such personnel. How owner proposes to check backgrounds and qualifications of any security personnel who will reside in the project. 


(iii) Full disclosure of any family relationship between the owner and any security personnel. For this purpose, “owner” includes a principal or other interested party. 


(iv) How residence by security personnel in a project unit will increase security for Section 8 assisted families residing in the project. 


(v) The amount payable monthly as rent to the unit owner by security personnel residing in the project (including a description of how this amount is determined), and the amount of any other compensation by the owner to such resident security personnel. 


(vi) The terms of occupancy by such security personnel. The lease by owner to the approved security personnel may provide that occupancy of the unit is authorized only while the security personnel is satisfactorily performing any agreed responsibilities and functions for project security. 


(vii) Other information as requested by the contract administrator. 


(d) *Action by contract administrator.* (1) The contract administrator shall have discretion to approve or disapprove owner's application, and to impose conditions for approval of occupancy by security personnel in a section 8 project unit. 


(2) Notice of approval by the contract administrator shall specify the term of such approved occupancy. Such approval may be withdrawn at the discretion of the contract administrator, for example, if the contract administrator determines that such occupancy is not providing adequate security benefits as proposed in the owner's application; or that security benefits from such occupancy are not a sufficient return for program costs. 


(e) *Housing assistance payment and rent.* (1) During approved occupancy by security personnel as provided in this section, the amount of the monthly housing assistance payment to the owner shall be equal to the contract rent (as determined in accordance with the HAP contract and HUD requirements) minus the amount (as approved by the contract administrator) of rent payable monthly as rent to the unit owner by such security personnel. The owner shall bear the risk of collecting such rent from such security personnel, and the amount of the housing assistance payment shall not be increased because of non-payment by such security personnel. The owner shall not be entitled to receive any vacancy payment for the period following occupancy by such security personnel. 


(2) In approving the amount of monthly rent payable by security personnel for occupancy of a contract unit, the contract administrator may consider whether security services to be performed are an adequate return for housing assistance payments on the unit, or whether the cost of security services should be borne by the owner from other project income. 



---

[N] [65 FR 16721, Mar. 29, 2000]


