# ยง 1777.4   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Agency.* The Rural Utilities Service or its successors.


*Applicant.* The entity that has applied for assistance under this part. The entity may be a public body such as municipality, county, district, authority or other political subdivisions of a state, an organization operated on a not-for-profit basis such as an association, cooperative or private corporation, or a Federally Recognized Tribe as defined in the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal List Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791-4792). An entity operated on a not-for-profit basis must be controlled by a local public body or bodies or have a broadly based ownership by or membership of people of the local community.


*Colonia.* Any identifiable community designated in writing by a state, county or Federally Recognized Tribe in which it is located; determined to be a Colonia on the basis of objective criteria including lack of potable water supply, lack of adequate sewage systems, and lack of decent, safe, and sanitary housing, inadequate roads and drainage; and existed and was generally recognized as a Colonia before October 1, 1989. Colonia's eligible areas include the entire county where more than half of the area of the county is within 150 miles of the United States and Mexico border. The county governing body, state, or Tribal government must designate the respective communities in the county as Colonia. The individual Colonia still must meet all other qualifications. If only some of the counties within the 150-mile area are designated and a county is later designated, written evidence of Colonia designation must be placed in the respective files.


*Cooperative.* A cooperative formed specifically for the purpose of the installation, expansion, improvement, or operation of water supply or waste disposal facilities or systems.


*Individual.* The recipient of financial assistance for improvements to a private dwelling to facilitate the use of the water or waste disposal system.


*Median household income.* The income data used in this part to determine median household income must be that which most accurately reflects the income of the service area. The median household income of the service area and the Statewide Nonmetropolitan Median Household Income will be determined by 5-year income data from the United States Department of Commerce, United States Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the census data is not an accurate representation of the median household income within the area to be served, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or the Agency may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income. Information will consist of reliable data from local, regional, State, Tribal or Federal sources, or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.


*Rural areas.* Includes any city, town, or unincorporated area with a population not in excess of 10,000 inhabitants in any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, according to the most recently implemented decennial census of the United States. If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recently implemented decennial census, the RUS Assistant Administrator for Water and Environmental Programs will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.


*Statewide Nonmetropolitan Median Household Income (SNMHI).* Median household income of a state's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population. The SNMHI is set by the RUS Water and Environmental Program. The nonmetropolitan median household income of the State may only be updated on a national basis by the RUS National Office.


*Tribe.* Federally Recognized Tribes as defined in the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal List Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791-4792), as well as Tribal organizations, enterprises, authorities and utilities that are duly established pursuant to the Constitution and bylaws of such Tribe.






