# § 49.102   Definitions.

As used in §§ 49.101 through 49.105, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act, in subparts A and OOOOa of 40 CFR part 60, in the Prevention of Significant Deterioration regulations at 40 CFR 52.21, or in the Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country at § 49.152. The following terms shall have the specific meanings given them:


*Oil and natural gas source* means a stationary source engaged in the extraction and production of oil and natural gas and/or the processing of natural gas, including the wells and all related processes used in the extraction, production, recovery, lifting, stabilization, and separation or treatment of oil, water, and/or natural gas (including condensate). Oil and natural gas production and processing components may include, but are not limited to: Wells and related casing head; tubing head and “Christmas tree” piping; pumps; compressors; heater treaters; separators; storage vessels; pneumatic devices; stationary engines; natural gas sweetening; truck loading; dewpoint suppression skids; natural gas dehydrators; completion and workover processes; gathering pipelines and related components that collect and transport the oil, natural gas and other materials and wastes from the wells or well pads; and natural gas processing plants.


*Oil and natural gas well* means a single well that extracts subsurface reservoir fluids containing a mixture of oil and/or natural gas, and water.


*Owner/operator* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises an oil and natural gas source.


*Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator of an EPA Region or an authorized representative of the Regional Administrator.


*Uinta Basin Ozone Nonattainment Area* means the nonattainment area for the Uinta Basin, or such parts or areas of the Uinta Basin, as it is or may hereafter be defined at 40 CFR part 81, Designations of Areas for Air Quality Purposes.



---

[N] [81 FR 35977, June 3, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 21253, May 14, 2019]




