# ยง 1980.1203   Definitions.

*Agency.* One of the three Rural Development agencies, the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Business-Cooperative Service or the Rural Utilities Service.


*Agency head.* The Administrator of the applicable RD agency.


*Awarding Agency.* An agency which has received an application for special broadband authority or has approved an application for such authority.


*Broadband service.* Any technology identified by the Secretary as having the capacity to provide transmission facilities that enable a subscriber to originate and receive voice, data, graphics, and video.


*Con Act.* The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act of 1972, as codified and amended at 7 U.S.C. 1921 *et seq.*

*Minimum acceptable level of broadband service.* The minimum transmission capacity with respect to terrestrial service that will qualify as broadband service, as published by the RUS in the _Federal Register_ pursuant to 7 CFR part 1738. If a new minimum transmission capacity is published in the _Federal Register_ while a request for smart utility authority is pending, broadband service for the purpose of reviewing the request will be defined by the minimum transmission capacity that was in effect at the time the request was received by the Agency.


*Rural Development (RD).* A mission area of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) made up of the Rural Housing Service (RHS), Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS) and the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).


*Retail broadband service.* For the purposes of this subpart, retail broadband service means any broadband service that is provided to the public at a charge. Broadband Service which is used exclusively by the recipient for its own purposes and is not sold to the public is not retail broadband. Broadband service which is sold to other service providers through wholesale agreements shall also not be considered retail broadband service.


*RE Act.* The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as codified and amended at 7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*

*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture.


*Special broadband authority.* Approval by an RD program to use up to 10 percent of the proceeds of an RD loan, grant, or loan guarantee for the purposes of constructing, improving, or acquiring broadband facilities and equipment in rural areas, whether or not retail or wholesale broadband service will be provided.


*Smart utility.* The use of broadband facilities and equipment that is only available internally by a recipient during the economic life of the assets financed by an RD loan, grant, or loan guarantee.






