# § 420.11   Specialized definitions.

(a) For the cokemaking subcategory, the term *product* means the production of coke plus coke breeze.


(b) The term *by-product cokemaking* means operations in which coal is heated in the absence of air to produce metallurgical coke (furnace coke and foundry coke), and the recovery of by-products derived from the gases and liquids that are driven from the coal during cokemaking.


(c) The term *cokemaking—non-recovery* means cokemaking operations for production of metallurgical coke (furnace coke and foundry coke) without recovery of by-products. Does not include co-generation facilities located at non-recovery coke facilities.


(d) The term *coke* means a processed form of coal that serves as the basic fuel for the smelting of iron ore.


(1) The term *foundry coke* means coke produced for foundry operations.


(2) The term *furnace coke* means coke produced for blast furnace operations


(e) The term *merchant coke plant* means by-product cokemaking operations that provide more than fifty percent of the coke produced to operations, industries, or processes other than ironmaking blast furnaces associated with steel production.


(f) The term *iron and steel coke plant* means by-product cokemaking operations other than those at merchant coke plants.


(g) The term *coke oven gas wet desulfurization system* means those systems that remove sulfur and sulfur compounds from coke oven gas and generate process wastewater.


(h) The term *coke breeze* means fine coke particles.


(i) The term *indirect ammonia recovery system* means those systems that recover ammonium hydroxide as a by-product from coke oven gases and waste ammonia liquors.


(j) The term *iron and steel* means those by-product cokemaking operations other than merchant cokemaking operations.


(k) The term *merchant* means those by-product cokemaking operations that provide more than fifty percent of the coke produced to operations, industries, or processes other than ironmaking blast furnaces associated with steel production.


(l) The term *O&G (as HEM)* means total recoverable oil and grease measured as n-hexane extractable material.


(m) The term *wet desulfurization system* means those systems that remove sulfur compounds from coke oven gases and produce a contaminated process wastewater.



---

[N] [67 FR 64261, Oct. 17, 2002]




