# ยง 9008.6   Payment and certification procedures.

(a) *Optional payments; private contributions.* (1) The national committee of a major or minor party may elect to receive all, part, or none of the amounts to which it is entitled under 11 CFR 9008.4 and 9008.5.


(2) If a national committee of a major or minor party elects to receive part of the amounts to which it is entitled under 11 CFR 9008.4 and 9008.5, or if the Secretary determines there is a deficiency in the Fund under 26 U.S.C. 9008(b)(4), the national committee may receive and use private contributions, so long as the sum of the contributions which are used to defray convention expenses and the amount of entitlements elected to be received does not exceed the total expenditure limitation under 11 CFR 9008.8.


(3) All private contributions received by the national committee to defray convention expenses shall be subject to all reporting requirements, limitations and prohibitions of Title 52, United States Code. The convention committee may establish a separate account for private contributions or may deposit such contributions with payments received from the Fund pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. The account(s) shall be maintained at a State bank, federally chartered depository institution or other depository institution, the deposits or accounts of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


(b) *Increase in certified amount.* If the application statement is filed before it is possible to determine the cost of living increase for the year preceding the convention, that amount determined by the increase shall be paid to the national committee promptly after the increase has been determined.


(c) *Availability of payments.* The national committee of a major or minor party may receive payments under this section beginning on July 1 of the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year in which a Presidential nominating convention of the political party involved is held.


(d) *Certification of payment.* After a national committee has properly submitted its application statement and agreement as required under 11 CFR 9008.3(a) (3) and (4), and upon receipt of a written request, payment of the committee's entitlement will be certified by the Commission to the Secretary of the Treasury.



---

[N] [59 FR 33616, June 29, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 77851, Dec. 29, 2014]




