# § 32.48   New Hampshire.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Great Bay National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must access waterfowl hunting areas by boat launched from off-refuge sites only. We prohibit overland access through the refuge.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit hunters from discharging a bow and arrow within 15 feet (4.5 meters), or a firearm within 200 feet (61 meters), of the traveled portion of, or across, any refuge roads or trails.


(ii) We allow hunting for deer during a 2-day hunt during the first weekend of the State's firearms season subject to the following conditions:


(A) We require hunters to have a lottery-issued refuge firearms deer hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) and to possess it at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(B) We allow scouting during the week prior to the first day of the firearms deer hunt.


(C) Hunters must check-in with refuge personnel prior to entering the refuge, and must check out with refuge personnel when exiting the refuge.


(D) Hunters must register harvested deer at the refuge check station, if a refuge check station is offered.


(E) Hunters must wear a minimum of 400 square inches (2,581 square centimeters) of solid-colored, blaze-orange clothing or material, in a visible manner on the head, chest, and back.


(iii) We allow archery deer and archery turkey hunting during the fall season subject to the following conditions:


(A) We require hunters to have a lottery-issued refuge hunt permit (Big/Upland Game Hunt Application, FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) and to possess it at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(B) We allow scouting during the week prior to the season opening.


(C) We prohibit archery hunting during the 2-day deer firearms hunt, unless the hunter possesses the appropriate firearms deer hunt permit.


(iv) We allow turkey hunting during the spring season subject to the following conditions: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section apply.


(4) [Reserved]
















(b) *Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, Wilson's snipe, and American woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations, except dog training is only allowed from August 1 through the last Saturday in September during daylight hours.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, raccoon, woodchuck, red squirrel, eastern gray squirrel, porcupine, skunk, crow, snowshoe hare, muskrat, opossum, fisher, mink, weasel, ring-necked pheasant, and ruffed grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations, except dog training is only allowed from August 1 through the last Saturday in September during daylight hours.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, black bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations, except dog training is only allowed from August 1 through the last Saturday in September during daylight hours.


(ii) We allow tree stands and blinds that are clearly marked with the owner's State hunting license number.


(iii) You must remove your tree stand(s) and blind(s) no later than 72 hours after the close of the season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.






(c) *Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, snipe, coot, crow, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of fox, raccoon, woodchuck, squirrel, porcupine, skunk, snowshoe hare, ring-necked pheasant, and ruffed grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of bear, white-tailed deer, coyote, wild turkey, and moose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(ii) Hunters must retrieve all species harvested on the refuge.


(iii) We allow temporary blinds and tree stands that are clearly marked with the owner's State hunting license number. You may erect temporary blinds and tree stands no earlier than 14 days prior to the hunting season, and you must remove them within 14 days after the hunting season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54126, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48871, Aug. 31, 2021; 88 FR 74065, Oct. 30, 2023]








