# § 54.6071-1   Time for filing returns.

(a) *Returns under section 4980B.* (1) *Due date for filing of return by employers or other persons responsible for benefits under a group health plan.* If the person liable for the excise tax is an employer or other person responsible for providing or administering benefits under a group health plan (such as an insurer or a third party administrator), the return required by § 54.6011-2 must be filed on or before the due date for filing the person's income tax return and must reflect the portion of the noncompliance period for each failure under section 4980B that falls during the person's taxable year. An extension to file the person's income tax return does not extend the date for filing Form 8928.


(2) *Due date for filing of return by multiemployer plans.* If the person liable for the excise tax is a multiemployer plan, the return required by § 54.6011-2 must be filed on or before the last day of the seventh month following the end of the plan's plan year. The filing of Form 8928 by a plan must reflect the portion of the noncompliance period for each failure under section 4980B that falls during the plan's plan year.


(b) *Returns under section 4980D.* (1) *Due date for filing of return by employers.* If the person liable for the excise tax is an employer, the return required by § 54.6011-2 must be filed on or before the due date for filing the employer's income tax return and must reflect the portion of the noncompliance period for each failure under chapter 100 that falls during the employer's taxable year. An extension to file the employer's income tax return does not extend the date for filing Form 8928.


(2) *Due date for filing of return by multiemployer plans or multiple employer health plans.* If the person liable for the excise tax is a multiemployer plan or a specified multiple employer health plan, the return required by § 54.6011-2 must be filed on or before the last day of the seventh month following the end of the plan's plan year. The filing of Form 8928 by a plan must reflect the portion of the noncompliance period for each failure under chapter 100 that falls during the plan's plan year.


(c) *Returns under section 4980E.* Any employer who is liable for the excise tax under section 4980E must report this tax by filing the return required by § 54.6011-2 on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the calendar year in which the noncomparable contributions were made.


(d) *Returns under section 4980G.* Any employer who is liable for the excise tax under section 4980E must report this tax by filing the return required by § 54.6011-2 on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the calendar year in which the noncomparable contributions were made. *See* Q & A-4 of § 54.4980G-1 for the rules on computation of the excise tax under section 4980G.


(e) *Effective/applicability date:* The rules in this section are effective for any Form 8928 that is due on or after January 1, 2010.



---

[N] [T.D. 9457, 74 FR 46000, Sept. 8, 2009]




