# § 157.211   Delivery points.

(a) *Construction and operation*—(1) *Automatic authorization.* The certificate holder may acquire, construct, replace, modify, or operate any delivery point, excluding the construction of certain delivery points subject to the prior notice provisions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section if:


(i) The natural gas is being delivered to, or for the account of, a shipper for whom the certificate holder is, or will be, authorized to transport gas; and


(ii) The certificate holder's tariff does not prohibit the addition of new delivery points.


(2) *Prior notice.* Subject to the notice procedure in § 157.205, the certificate holder may acquire, construct, replace, modify, or operate any delivery point if:


(i) The natural gas is being delivered to, or for the account of, an end-user that is currently being served by a local distribution company; and


(ii) The natural gas is being delivered to a shipper for whom the certificate holder is, or will be, authorized to transport gas; and


(iii) The certificate holder's tariff does not prohibit the addition of new delivery points.


(b) *Contents of request.* In addition to the requirements of § 157.205(b), requests for activities authorized under paragraph (a)(2) must contain:


(1) The name of the end-user, the location of the delivery point, and the distribution company currently serving the end-user;


(2) A description of the facility and any appurtenant facilities;


(3) A USGS 7
1/2-minute series (scale 1:24,000 or 1:25,000) topographic map (or map of equivalent or greater detail, as appropriate) showing the location of the proposed facilities;


(4) The quantity of gas to be delivered through the proposed facility;


(5) A description, with supporting data, of the impact of the service rendered through the proposed delivery tap upon the certificate holder's peak day and annual deliveries.


(c) *Reporting requirements.* As part of the certificate holder's annual report of projects authorized under paragraph (a) of this section, the certificate holder must report in the manner prescribed in §§ 157.6(a) and 385.2011 of this chapter:


(1) A description of the facilities acquired, constructed, replaced, modified or operated pursuant to this section;


(2) The location and maximum quantities delivered at such delivery point;


(3) The actual cost and the completion date of the delivery point; and


(4) The date of each agreement obtained pursuant to § 157.206(b)(3) and the date construction began.



---

[N] [Order 436, 50 FR 42491, Oct. 18, 1985, as amended by Order 493, 53 FR 15030, Apr. 27, 1988; Order 603, 64 FR 26608, May 14, 1999; Order 603-B, 65 FR 11464, Mar. 3, 2000]




