# ยง 1204.1406   Procedures in the event of a declared in-flight emergency.

(a) Any aircraft involved in a declared in-flight emergency that endangers the safety of its passengers and aircraft may land at a NASA airfield. In such situations, the requirements for this subpart for advance authorizations, do not apply.


(b) NASA personnel may use any method or means to clear the aircraft or wreckage from the runway after a landing following an in-flight emergency. Care will be taken to preclude unnecessary damage in so doing. However, the runway will be cleared as soon as possible for appropriate use.


(c) The emergency user will be billed for all costs to the Government that result from the emergency landing. No landing fee will be charged, but the charges will include the labor, materials, parts, use of equipment, and tools required for any service rendered under these circumstances.


(d) In addition to any report required by the Federal Aviation Administration, a complete report covering the landing and the emergency will be filed with the airfield manager by the pilot or, if the pilot is not available, any other crew member or passenger.


(e) Before an aircraft which has made an emergency landing is permitted to take off (if the aircraft can and is to be flown out) the owner or operator thereof shall make arrangements acceptable to the approving authority to pay any charges assessed for services rendered and execute a Hold Harmless Agreement. The owner or operator may also be required to furnish a certificate of insurance, as provided in ยง 1204.1404, covering such takeoff.




