# § 1066.215   Summary of verification procedures for chassis dynamometers.

(a) *Overview.* This section describes the overall process for verifying and calibrating the performance of chassis dynamometers.


(b) *Scope and frequency.* The following table summarizes the required and recommended calibrations and verifications described in this subpart and indicates when they must occur:


(c) *Automated dynamometer verifications and calibrations.* In some cases, dynamometers are designed with internal diagnostic and control features to accomplish the verifications and calibrations specified in this subpart. You may use these automated functions instead of following the procedures we specify in this subpart to demonstrate compliance with applicable requirements, consistent with good engineering judgment.


(d) *Sequence of verifications and calibrations.* Upon initial installation and after major maintenance, perform the verifications and calibrations in the same sequence as noted in Table 1 of this section, except that you may perform speed linearity verification after the verifications in §§ 1066.225 and 1066.230. At other times, you may need to perform specific verifications or calibrations in a certain sequence, as noted in this subpart. If you perform major maintenance on a specific component, you are required to perform verifications and calibrations only on components or parameters that are affected by the maintenance.


(e) *Corrections.* Unless the regulation directs otherwise, if the dynamometer fails to meet any specified calibration or verification, make any necessary adjustments or repairs such that the dynamometer meets the specification before running a test. Repairs required to meet specifications are generally considered major maintenance under this part.




