# § 300.30   Accounts.

(a) *Scope and introduction.* This section applies to State, district, or local committees or organizations of a political party, whether or not the committee is a political committee under 11 CFR 100.5, that have receipts or make disbursements for Federal election activity. Paragraph (b) of this section describes and explains the types of accounts available to a political party committee or organization covered by this section. Paragraph (c) of this section sets out the account structure that must be maintained by a political party committee or organization covered by this section. 


(b) *Types of accounts.* Each State, district, and local party organization or committee that has receipts or makes disbursements for Federal election activity must establish one or more of the following types of accounts, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. 


(1) *Non-Federal accounts.* The funds deposited into this account are governed by State law. Disbursements, contributions, and expenditures made wholly or in part in connection with Federal elections must not be made from any non-Federal account, except as permitted by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, 11 CFR 102.5(a)(4), 11 CFR 106.7(d)(1)(i), 11 CFR 300.33 and 11 CFR 300.34. 


(2) *Levin account.* The funds deposited into this account must comply with 11 CFR 300.31. Such funds may be used for the categories of activities described at 11 CFR 300.32(b). 


(3) *Federal account.* Federal accounts may be used for the deposit of contributions and the making of expenditures pursuant to the following conditions: 


(i) Only contributions that are permissible pursuant to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act may be deposited into any Federal account, regardless of whether such contributions are for use in connection with Federal or non-Federal elections. *See* 11 CFR 103.3 regarding impermissible funds. 


(ii) Only contributions solicited and received pursuant to the following conditions may be deposited in a Federal account: 


(A) Contributions must be designated by the contributors for the Federal account; 


(B) The solicitation must expressly state that contributions may be used wholly or in part in connection with a Federal election; or 


(C) The contributor must be informed that all contributions are subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act. 


(iii) All disbursements, contributions, and expenditures made wholly or in part by any State, district, or local party organization or committee in connection with a Federal election must be made from either: 


(A) A Federal account, except as permitted by 11 CFR 300.32; or 


(B) A separate allocation account (*see* paragraph (b)(4) of this section). 


(iv) If all payments in connection with a Federal election, including payments for Federal election activities, are to be made from a Federal account, expenditures and disbursements for costs that are allocable pursuant to 11 CFR 106.7 or 11 CFR 300.33 must be made from the Federal account in their entirety, with the shares of a non-Federal account or of a Levin account being transferred to the Federal account pursuant to 11 CFR 106.7 and 11 CFR 300.33. 


(v) No transfers may be made to a Federal account from any other account(s) maintained by a State, district, or local party committee or organization from any other party organization or committee at any level for the purpose of financing activity in connection with Federal elections, except as provided by paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section or 11 CFR 300.33 and 300.34. 


(4) *Allocation accounts.* At the discretion of the party committee or organization, separate allocation accounts may be established for purposes of making allocable expenditures and disbursements. 


(i) Only funds from the party organization's or committee's Federal and non-Federal accounts may be deposited into an allocation account used to make allocable expenditures and disbursements for activities in connection with Federal and non-Federal elections. 


(ii) Only funds from the party organization's or committee's Federal account and Levin funds from its non-Federal or Levin account(s) may be deposited into an allocation account used to make allocable expenditures and disbursements for activities undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32(b). 


(iii) Once a party organization or committee has established a separate allocation account for activities in connection with Federal and non-Federal elections and a separate account for activities undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32(b), all allocable expenses must be paid from the appropriate allocation account for as long as that account is maintained. 


(iv) The party organization or committee must transfer to the appropriate allocation account funds from its Federal and non-Federal or Levin accounts in amounts proportionate to the Federal, non-Federal and Levin shares of each allocable expense pursuant to 11 CFR 106.7 and 11 CFR 300.33. The transfers must be made pursuant to 11 CFR 300.33 and 300.34. 


(v) No funds contained in an allocation account may be transferred to any other account maintained by the party committee or organization. 


(vi) For reporting purposes, all allocation accounts must be treated as Federal accounts. 


(c) *Required account or accounts.* Each State, district, and local party organization or committee that has receipts or makes disbursements for Federal election activity must establish its accounts in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1), or (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section. 


(1) One or more Federal accounts in a campaign depository, in accordance with 11 CFR part 103, which must be treated as a separate political committee and be required to comply with the requirements of the Act including the registration and reporting requirements of 11 CFR part 102 and part 104. State, district, and local party organizations or committees may choose to make non-Federal disbursements, subject to State law, and disbursements for Federal election activity from a Federal account provided that such disbursements are reported pursuant to 11 CFR 104.17 and 11 CFR 300.36, and provided that contributors of the Federal funds so used were notified that their contributions were subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act. 


(2) Establish at least three separate accounts in depositories as follows—


(i) One or more Federal accounts; 


(ii) One or more Levin accounts; and 


(iii) One or more Non-Federal accounts. 


(3) Establish two separate accounts in depositories as follows: 


(i) One or more Federal accounts, and; 


(ii) An account that must function as both a Non-Federal account and a Levin account. If such an account is used, the State, district, and local party must demonstrate through a reasonable accounting method approved by the Commission (including any method embedded in software provided or approved by the Commission) that whenever such organization makes a disbursement for activities undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32(b), that organization had received sufficient contributions or Levin funds to make such disbursement. 


(d) *Recordkeeping.* All party organizations or committees must keep records of deposits into and disbursements from such accounts, and, upon request, must make such records available for examination by the Commission. 




