# § 2638.603   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Act* means the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-521, as amended).


*ADAEO* or *Alternate Designated Agency Ethics Official* means an officer or employee who is designated by the head of the agency as the primary deputy to the DAEO in coordinating and managing the agency's ethics program in accordance with the provisions of § 2638.104.


*Agency* or *agencies* means any executive department, military department, Government corporation, independent establishment, board, commission, or agency, including the United States Postal Service and Postal Regulatory Commission, of the executive branch.


*Agency head* means the head of an agency. In the case of a department, it means the Secretary of the department. In the case of a board or commission, it means the Chair of the board or commission.


*Confidential filer* means an employee who is required to file a confidential financial disclosure report pursuant to § 2634.904 of this chapter.


*Conflict of interest laws* means 18 U.S.C. 202-209, and *conflict of interest law* means any provision of 18 U.S.C. 202-209.


*Corrective action* means any action necessary to remedy a past violation or prevent a continuing violation of this part, including but not limited to restitution, change of assignment, disqualification, divestiture, termination of an activity, waiver, the creation of a qualified diversified or blind trust, or counseling.


*DAEO* or *Designated Agency Ethics Official* means an officer or employee who is designated by the head of the agency to coordinate and manage the agency's ethics program in accordance with the provisions of § 2638.104.


*Department* means a department of the executive branch.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Government Ethics.


*Disciplinary action* means those disciplinary actions referred to in Office of Personnel Management regulations and instructions implementing provisions of title 5 of the United States Code or provided for in comparable provisions applicable to employees not subject to title 5.


*Employee* means any officer or employee of an agency, including a special Government employee. It includes officers but not enlisted members of the uniformed services. It includes employees of a state or local government or other organization who are serving on detail to an agency, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3371, *et seq.* It does not include the President or Vice President. Status as an employee is unaffected by pay or leave status or, in the case of a special Government employee, by the fact that the individual does not perform official duties on a given day.


*Executive branch* includes each executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105 and any other entity or administrative unit in the executive branch. However, it does not include any agency, entity, office, or commission that is defined by or referred to in 5 U.S.C. app. sections 109(8)-(11) of the Act as within the judicial or legislative branch.


*Government ethics laws and regulations* include, among other applicable authorities, the provisions related to government ethics or financial disclosure of the following authorities:


(1) Chapter 11 of title 18 of the United States Code;


(2) The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-521, as amended);


(3) The Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act of 2012 (STOCK Act) (Pub. L. 112-105, as amended);


(4) Executive Order 12674 (Apr. 12, 1989) as amended by Executive Order 12731 (Oct. 17, 1990); and


(5) Subchapter B of this chapter.


*Lead human resources official* means the agency's chief policy advisor on all human resources management issues who is charged with selecting, developing, training, and managing a high-quality, productive workforce. For agencies covered by the Chief Human Capital Officers Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-296), the Chief Human Capital Officer is the lead human resources official.


*Person* includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, government agency, or public or private organization.


*Principles of Ethical Conduct* means the collection of general principles set forth in § 2635.101(b) of this chapter.


*Public filer* means an employee, former employee, or nominee who is required to file a public financial disclosure report, pursuant to § 2634.202 of this chapter.


*Senior executive* means a career or noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service or equivalent federal executive service. It also includes employees in Senior Level (SL) and Senior Technical (ST) positions. In addition, it includes equivalent positions in agencies that do not have a federal executive service.


*Special Government employee* means an employee who meets the definition at 18 U.S.C. 202(a). The term does not relate to a specific category of employee, and 18 U.S.C. 202(a) is not an appointment authority. The term describes individuals appointed to positions in the executive branch, the legislative branch, any independent agency of the United States, or the District of Columbia who are covered less expansively by conflict of interest laws at 18 U.S.C. 202-209. As a general matter, an individual appointed to a position in the legislative or executive branch who is expected to serve for 130 days or less during any period of 365 consecutive days is characterized as a special Government employee. The appointment of special Government employees is not administered or overseen by the Office of Government Ethics but is carried out under legal authorities administered by the Office of Personnel Management and other agencies.


*Standards of Conduct* means the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch set forth in part 2635 of this chapter.




