# § 30.36   Class 1; flue-cured types and groups.

All flue-cured tobacco is graded under the same set of Official Standard Grades for Flue-cured Tobacco (U.S. Types 11, 12, 13, and 14). Flue-cured types are defined according to established general geographical areas of production. However, the determination as to type designations are based upon and indicate the geographic location where inspection and certification are performed—and do not necessarily identify the production area in which the tobacco was grown.


(a) *Type 11a.* That type of flue-cured tobacco commonly known as Western Flue-cured or Old Belt Flue-cured, produced principally in the Piedmont sections of Virginia and North Carolina.


(b) *Type 11b.* That type of flue-cured tobacco commonly known as Middle Belt Flue-cured, produced principally in a section lying between the Piedmont and coastal plains regions of Virginia and North Carolina.


(c) *Type 12.* That type of flue-cured tobacco commonly known as Eastern Flue-cured or Eastern Carolina Flue-cured, produced principally in the coastal plains section of North Carolina, north of the South River.


(d) *Type 13.* That type of flue-cured tobacco commonly known as Southeastern Flue-cured or South Carolina Flue-cured, produced principally in the coastal plains section of South Carolina and the southeastern counties of North Carolina, south of the South River.


(e) *Type 14.* That type of flue-cured tobacco commonly known as Southern Flue-cured, produced principally in the southern section of Georgia, in northern Florida, and to some extent, in Alabama.


