# ยง 540.72   Statutory restrictions requiring return of commercially published information or material which is sexually explicit or features nudity.

(a) When commercially published information or material may not be distributed by staff or made available to inmates due to statutory restrictions (for example, a prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to distribute or make available to inmates information or material which is sexually explicit or features nudity), the Warden or designee shall return the information or material to the publisher or sender. The Warden or designee shall advise the publisher or sender that an independent review of the decision may be obtained by writing to the Regional Director within 20 days of receipt of the notification letter. Staff shall provide the inmate with written notice of the action. 


(b) *Definitions.* For the purpose of this section: 


(1) *Commercially published information or material* means any book, booklet, pamphlet, magazine, periodical, newsletter, photograph or other pictorial depiction, or similar document, including stationery and greeting cards, published by any individual, organization, company, or corporation which is distributed or made available through any means or media for a commercial purpose. This definition includes any portion extracted, photocopied, or clipped from such items. 


(2) *Nudity* means a pictorial depiction where genitalia or female breasts are exposed. 


(3) *Features* means the publication contains depictions of nudity or sexually explicit conduct on a routine or regular basis or promotes itself based upon such depictions in the case of individual one-time issues. Publications containing nudity illustrative of medical, educational, or anthropological content may be excluded from this definition. 


(4) *Sexually explicit* means a pictorial depiction of actual or simulated sexual acts including sexual intercourse, oral sex, or masturbation. 



---

[N] [61 FR 57569, Nov. 6, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 77427, Dec. 18, 2002]




