# § 35.3155   Payments.

(a) *Payment schedule.* The State must include with each application for a capitalization grant a draft payment schedule based on the State's projection of binding commitments in its IUP. The payment schedule and the specific criteria establishing the conditions under which the State may draw cash from its LOC shall be jointly established by the Agency and the State and included in the capitalization grant agreement. Changes to the payment schedule, which may be negotiated during the year, will be effected through an amendment to the grant agreement.


(b) *Estimated disbursements.* With the first application for a capitalization grant, the State shall submit a schedule that reflects, by quarters, the estimated disbursements from that grant for the year following the grant award date. At the end of the third quarter of each Federal fiscal year thereafter, the State must provide the Agency with a schedule of estimated disbursements for the following Federal fiscal year. The State must advise the Agency when significant changes from the schedule of estimated disbursements are anticipated. This schedule must be developed in conformity with the procedures applicable to cash draws in § 35.3160 and must be at a level of detail sufficient to allow the Agency and the State to jointly develop and maintain a forecast of cash draws.


(c) *Timing of payments.* Payments to the LOC from a particular grant will begin in the quarter in which the grant is awarded and will end no later than the earlier of eight quarters after the capitalization grant is awarded or twelve quarters after advices of allowances are issued to the Regions.


(d) *General payment and cash draw rules.* (1) Except as described in §§ 35.3160(e) and 35.3160(g), payments will be based on the State's schedule of binding commitments.


(2) The SRF or assistance recipient must first incur a cost, but not necessarily disburse funds for that cost, on an activity for which the State has entered into a binding commitment, in order to draw cash.


(3) Cash draws will be available only up to the amount of payments made.


(4) For loans or for refinancing or purchasing of municipal debt, planning, design and associated pre-building costs that are within the scope of a project built after March 7, 1985, may be included in the assistance agreement regardless of when they were incurred, provided these costs are in conformity with title VI of the Act. The State may draw cash for these incurred pre-building costs immediately upon executing an assistance agreement.


(5) A State may draw cash from the LOC equal to the proportional Federal share at which time the State will provide its proportional share. The Federal proportional share will be 83
1/3 percent of incurred costs and the State's proportional share will be 16
2/3 percent of the incurred costs, except as described below.


(i) Where the State provides funds in excess of the required 20 percent match, the proportional Federal share drawn from the LOC will be the ratio of Federal funds in the capitalization grant to the sum of the capitalization grant and the State funds. Alternatively, the State may identify a group of activities approximately equal to 120 percent of the grant amount, and draw cash from the LOC for 83
1/3 percent of the incurred costs of the identified activities.


(ii) The Federal proportional share may exceed 83
1/3 percent where a State is given credit for its match amount as a result of funding activities in prior years (but after March 7, 1985), or for banking excess match in the SRF in prior years and disbursing these amounts prior to drawing cash. If the entire amount of the State's required match has been disbursed in advance, the Federal proportional share would be 100 percent.




