# ยง 271.1   Authority, purpose, and scope.

(a) *Authority and purpose.* This part establishes mechanisms for carrying out the Federal Open Market Committee's (Committee) statutory responsibilities relating to the disclosure, production, or withholding of information to facilitate the Committee's interactions with the public. In this regard, the Committee has determined that the Committee, or its delegees, may disclose exempt information of the Committee, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part, whenever it is necessary or appropriate to do so in the exercise of any of the Committee's authorities, including but not limited to authority granted to the Committee in the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and section 12A of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 263. The Committee has determined that all such disclosures made in accordance with the rules and procedures specified in this part are authorized by law. This part also sets forth the categories of information made available to the public, the procedures for obtaining information and records, the procedures for limited release of exempt information, and the procedures for protecting confidential business information.


(b) *Scope.* (1) Subpart A of this part contains general provisions and definitions of terms used in this part.


(2) Subpart B of this part implements the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552).


(3) Subpart C of this part sets forth the procedures with respect to subpoenas, orders compelling production, and other process.






