# § 1.597-5   Taxable Transfers.

(a) *Taxable Transfers*—(1) *Defined.* The term *Taxable Transfer* means—


(i) A transaction in which an entity transfers to a transferee other than a Bridge Bank—


(A) Any deposit liability (whether or not the Institution also transfers assets), if FFA is provided in connection with the transaction; or


(B) Any asset for which an Agency or a Controlled Entity has any financial obligation (for example, pursuant to a Loss Guarantee or Agency Obligation); or


(ii) A deemed transfer of assets described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) *Scope.* This section provides rules governing Taxable Transfers. Rules applicable to both actual and deemed asset acquisitions are provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Special rules applicable only to deemed asset acquisitions are provided in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Deemed asset acquisitions upon stock purchase*—(1) *In general.* In a deemed transfer of assets under this paragraph (b), an Institution (including a Bridge Bank or a Residual Entity) or a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Institution (the Old Entity) is treated as selling all of its assets in a single transaction and is treated as a new corporation (the New Entity) that purchases all of the Old Entity's assets at the close of the day immediately preceding the occurrence of an event described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. However, such an event results in a deemed transfer of assets under this paragraph (b) only if it occurs—


(i) In connection with a transaction in which FFA is provided;


(ii) While the Institution is a Bridge Bank;


(iii) While the Institution has a positive balance in a deferred FFA account (see § 1.597-2(c)(4)(v) regarding the optional accelerated recapture of deferred FFA); or


(iv) With respect to a Consolidated Subsidiary, while the Institution of which it is a Consolidated Subsidiary is under Agency Control.


(2) *Events.* A deemed transfer of assets under this paragraph (b) results if the Institution or Consolidated Subsidiary—


(i) Becomes a non-member (within the meaning of § 1.1502-32(d)(4)) of its consolidated group, other than pursuant to an election under § 1.597-4(g);


(ii) Becomes a member of an affiliated group of which it was not previously a member, other than pursuant to an election under § 1.597-4(g); or


(iii) Issues stock such that the stock that was outstanding before the imposition of Agency Control or the occurrence of any transaction in connection with the provision of FFA represents 50 percent or less of the vote or value of its outstanding stock (disregarding stock described in section 1504(a)(4) and stock owned by an Agency or a Controlled Entity).


(3) *Bridge Banks and Residual Entities.* If a Bridge Bank is treated as selling all of its assets to a New Entity under this paragraph (b), each associated Residual Entity is treated as simultaneously selling its assets to a New Entity in a Taxable Transfer described in this paragraph (b).


(c) *Treatment of transferor*—(1) *FFA in connection with a Taxable Transfer.* A transferor in a Taxable Transfer is treated as having directly received immediately before a Taxable Transfer any Net Worth Assistance that an Agency provides to the New Entity or the Acquiring in connection with the transfer. (See § 1.597-2(a) and (c) for rules regarding the inclusion of FFA in income and § 1.597-2(a)(1) for related rules regarding FFA provided to shareholders.) The Net Worth Assistance is treated as an asset of the transferor that is sold to the New Entity or the Acquiring in the Taxable Transfer.


(2) *Amount realized in a Taxable Transfer.* In a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the amount realized is determined under section 1001(b) by reference to the consideration paid for the assets. In a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the amount realized is the sum of the grossed-up basis of the stock acquired in connection with the Taxable Transfer (excluding stock acquired from the Old or New Entity), plus the amount of liabilities assumed or taken subject to in the deemed transfer, plus other relevant items. The grossed-up basis of the acquired stock equals the acquirers' basis in the acquired stock divided by the percentage of the Old Entity's stock (by value) attributable to the acquired stock.


(3) *Allocation of amount realized*—(i) *In general.* The amount realized under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is allocated among the assets transferred in the Taxable Transfer in the same manner as amounts are allocated among assets under § 1.338-6(b) and (c)(1) and (2).


(ii) *Modifications to general rule.* This paragraph (c)(3)(ii) modifies certain of the allocation rules of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. Agency Obligations and Covered Assets in the hands of the New Entity or the Acquiring are treated as Class II assets. Stock of a Consolidated Subsidiary is treated as a Class II asset to the extent the fair market value of the Consolidated Subsidiary's Class I and Class II assets (see § 1.597-1(b)) exceeds the amount of its liabilities. The fair market value of an Agency Obligation is deemed to equal its adjusted issue price immediately before the Taxable Transfer.


(d) *Treatment of a New Entity and an Acquiring*—(1) *Purchase price.* The purchase price for assets acquired in a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is the cost of the assets acquired. See § 1.1060-1(c)(1). All assets transferred in related transactions pursuant to an option included in an agreement between the transferor and the Acquiring in the Taxable Transfer are included in the group of assets among which the consideration paid is allocated for purposes of determining the New Entity's or the Acquiring's basis in each of the assets. The purchase price for assets acquired in a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section is the sum of the grossed-up basis of the stock acquired in connection with the Taxable Transfer (excluding stock acquired from the Old or New Entity), plus the amount of liabilities assumed or taken subject to in the deemed transfer, plus other relevant items. The grossed-up basis of the acquired stock equals the acquirers' basis in the acquired stock divided by the percentage of the Old Entity's stock (by value) attributable to the acquired stock. FFA provided in connection with a Taxable Transfer is not included in the New Entity's or the Acquiring's purchase price for the acquired assets. Any Net Worth Assistance so provided is treated as an asset of the transferor sold to the New Entity or the Acquiring in the Taxable Transfer.


(2) *Allocation of basis*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(2), the purchase price determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is allocated among the assets transferred in the Taxable Transfer in the same manner as amounts are allocated among assets under § 1.338-6(b) and (c)(1) and (2).


(ii) *Modifications to general rule.* The allocation rules contained in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section apply to the allocation of basis among assets acquired in a Taxable Transfer. No basis is allocable to an Agency's agreement to provide Loss Guarantees, yield maintenance payments, cost to carry or cost of funds reimbursement payments, or expense reimbursement or indemnity payments. A New Entity's basis in assets it receives from its shareholders is determined under general federal income tax principles and is not governed by this paragraph (d).


(iii) *Allowance and recapture of additional basis in certain cases.* The basis of Class I and Class II assets equals their fair market value. See § 1.597-1(b). If the fair market value of the Class I and Class II assets exceeds the purchase price for the acquired assets, the excess is included ratably as ordinary income by the New Entity or the Acquiring over a period of six taxable years beginning in the year of the Taxable Transfer. The New Entity or the Acquiring must include as ordinary income the entire amount remaining to be recaptured under the preceding sentence in the taxable year in which an event occurs that would accelerate inclusion of an adjustment under section 481.


(iv) *Certain post-transfer adjustments*—(A) *Agency Obligations.* If an adjustment to the principal amount of an Agency Obligation or cash payment to reflect a more accurate determination of the condition of the Institution at the time of the Taxable Transfer is made before the earlier of the date the New Entity or the Acquiring files its first post-transfer federal income tax return or the due date of that return (including extensions), the New Entity or the Acquiring must adjust its basis in its acquired assets to reflect the adjustment. In making adjustments to the New Entity's or the Acquiring's basis in its acquired assets, paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section is applied by treating an adjustment to the principal amount of an Agency Obligation pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A) as occurring immediately before the Taxable Transfer. (See § 1.597-3(c)(3) for rules regarding other adjustments to the principal amount of an Agency Obligation.)


(B) *Covered Assets.* If, immediately after a Taxable Transfer, an asset is not subject to a Loss Guarantee but the New Entity or the Acquiring has the right to designate specific assets that will be subject to the Loss Guarantee, the New Entity or the Acquiring must treat any asset so designated as having been subject to the Loss Guarantee at the time of the Taxable Transfer. The New Entity or the Acquiring must adjust its basis in the Covered Assets and in its other acquired assets to reflect the designation in the manner provided by paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The New Entity or the Acquiring must make appropriate adjustments in subsequent taxable years if the designation is made after the New Entity or the Acquiring files its first post-transfer federal income tax return or the due date of that return (including extensions) has passed.


(e) *Special rules applicable to Taxable Transfers that are deemed asset acquisitions*—(1) *Taxpayer Identification Numbers.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the New Entity succeeds to the TIN of the Old Entity in a deemed sale under paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) *Consolidated Subsidiaries*—(i) *In general.* A Consolidated Subsidiary that is treated as selling its assets in a Taxable Transfer under paragraph (b) of this section is treated as engaging immediately thereafter in a complete liquidation to which section 332 applies. The consolidated group of which the Consolidated Subsidiary is a member does not take into account gain or loss on the sale, exchange, or cancellation of stock of the Consolidated Subsidiary in connection with the Taxable Transfer.


(ii) *Certain minority shareholders.* Shareholders of the Consolidated Subsidiary that are not members of the consolidated group that includes the Institution do not recognize gain or loss with respect to shares of Consolidated Subsidiary stock retained by the shareholder. The shareholder's basis for that stock is not affected by the Taxable Transfer.


(3) *Bridge Banks and Residual Entities*—(i) *In general.* A Bridge Bank or Residual Entity's sale of assets to a New Entity under paragraph (b) of this section is treated as made by a single entity under § 1.597-4(e). The New Entity deemed to acquire the assets of a Residual Entity under paragraph (b) of this section is not treated as a single entity with the Bridge Bank (or with the New Entity acquiring the Bridge Bank's assets) and must obtain a new TIN.


(ii) *Treatment of consolidated groups.* At the time of a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, treatment of a Bridge Bank as a subsidiary member of a consolidated group under § 1.597-4(f)(1) ceases. However, the New Entity that is deemed to acquire the assets of a Residual Entity is a member of the selling consolidated group after the deemed sale. The group's basis or excess loss account in the stock of the New Entity that is deemed to acquire the assets of the Residual Entity is the group's basis or excess loss account in the stock of the Bridge Bank immediately before the deemed sale, as adjusted for the results of the sale.


(4) *Certain returns.* If an Old Entity without Continuing Equity is not a subsidiary of a consolidated group at the time of the Taxable Transfer, the controlling Agency must file all federal income tax returns for the Old Entity for periods ending on or prior to the date of the deemed sale described in paragraph (b) of this section that are not filed as of that date.


(5) *Basis limited to fair market value.* If all of the stock of the corporation is not acquired on the date of the Taxable Transfer, the Commissioner may make appropriate adjustments under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to the extent using a grossed-up basis of the stock of a corporation results in an aggregate amount realized for, or basis in, the assets other than the aggregate fair market value of the assets.


(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section. For purposes of these examples, an Institution's loans are treated as if they were a single asset. However, in applying these regulations, the fair market value of each loan (including, for purposes of a Covered Asset, the Third-Party Price and the Expected Value) must be determined separately.



---

[N] [T.D. 9825, 82 FR 48625, Oct. 19, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 61177, Dec. 27, 2017]








