# § 310.2   Definitions.

*DoD Components* means the Office the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).


*Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, as defined in the Privacy Act.


*Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use or disseminate, as defined in the Privacy Act.


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, or symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph, as defined in the Privacy Act.


*Request for access* to a record means a request made under subsection (d)(1) of the Privacy Act.


*Request for amendment or correction* of a record means a request made under subsection (d)(2) of the Privacy Act.


*Request for an accounting* means a request made under subsection (c)(3) of the Privacy Act.


*Requester* means an individual who makes a request for access, a request for amendment or correction, or a request for an accounting under the Privacy Act.


*System of records* means any group of records under the control of the Department of Defense from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some other identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual as defined in the Privacy Act.




