# § 4.76   Penalties.

(a) *Penalties under section 10(k) of FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)).* If a senior examiner of a national bank or savings association, after leaving the employment of the OCC, accepts compensation as an employee, officer, director, or consultant from that bank, savings association, or any company (including a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company) that controls that bank or savings association in violation of § 4.74, then the examiner shall, in accordance with section 10(k)(6) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)(6)), be subject to one of the following penalties—


(1) An order—


(i) Removing the individual from office or prohibiting the individual from further participation in the affairs of the relevant national bank, savings association, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or other company that controls such institution for a period of up to five years; and


(ii) Prohibiting the individual from participating in the affairs of any insured depository institution for a period of up to five years; or


(2) A civil monetary penalty of not more than $250,000.


(b) *Enforcement by appropriate Federal banking agency.* Violations of § 4.74 shall be administered or enforced by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the depository institution or depository institution holding company that provided compensation to the former senior examiner. For purposes of this paragraph, the appropriate Federal banking agency for a company that is not a depository institution or depository institution holding company shall be the Federal banking agency that formerly employed the senior examiner.


(c) *Scope of prohibition orders.* Any senior examiner who is subject to an order issued under paragraph (a) of this section shall, as required by 12 U.S.C. 1820(k)(6)(B), be subject to paragraphs (6) and (7) of section 8(e) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(6)-(7)) in the same manner and to the same extent as a person subject to an order issued under section 8(e).


(d) *Procedures.* The procedures applicable to actions under paragraph (a) of this section are provided in section 10(k)(6) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)(6)) and in 12 CFR part 19.


(e) *Remedies not exclusive.* The OCC may seek both of the penalties described in paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, a senior examiner who accepts compensation as described in § 4.74 may be subject to other administrative, civil or criminal remedies or penalties as provided in law.



---

[N] [60 FR 57322, Nov. 15, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 43564, July 21, 2011]




