# § 1260.1   Scope and definitions.

(a) This part establishes a consumer product safety standard for operating cords on custom window coverings. The effective date of this part is May 30, 2023.


(b) The consumer product safety standard in this part relies on the following definitions in section 3 of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 1260.5):


(1) *Custom window covering* (custom blinds, shades, and shadings) has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 5.01, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as any window covering that is not classified as a stock window covering.


(2) *Stock window covering* (stock blinds, shades, and shadings) has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 5.02, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as a window covering that is completely or substantially fabricated prior to being distributed in commerce and is a specific stock-keeping unit (SKU). Even when the seller, manufacturer, or distributor modifies a pre-assembled product by adjusting to size, attaching the top rail or bottom rail, or tying cords to secure the bottom rail, the product is still considered stock. Online sales of the product or the size of the order such as multi-family housing do not make the product a non-stock product. These examples are provided in ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 to clarify that as long as the product is “substantially fabricated” prior to distribution in commerce, subsequent changes to the product do not change its categorization.


(3) *Operating cord* has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 2.19, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as the portion of the cord that the user manipulates directly during operation (including lifting, lowering, tilting, rotating, and traversing).


(4) *Cord shroud* has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 2.09, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as a device or material added to limit the accessibility of a cord or formation of a hazardous loop.


(5) *Cord retraction device* has the same meaning as defined in section 3, definition 2.08, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, as a passive device which winds and gathers cords when tension is no longer applied by the user.


(6) *Rigid cord shroud* is a cord shroud that is constructed of inflexible material, rendering the cord inaccessible as defined in Appendix C of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, to prevent a child from accessing a window covering cord.


(7) *Retractable cord* is a cord that extends when pulled by a user, and fully retracts when the user releases the cord, rendering the cord inaccessible as defined in Appendix C of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.


(8) *Loop cord and bead chain restraining device* is a device, integrated to and installed on the window covering, that prevents the creation of hazardous loop from an accessible continuous operating cord.


(9) *Operating interface* is the part of the window covering that the user physically touches or grasps by hand or a tool to operate the window covering, for example a wand to tilt the slats of the product or the bottom rail to raise or lower the product.






