# ยง 19.17   Inspections not warranted; informal review.

(a) If the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office determines, with respect to a complaint under ยง 19.16, that an inspection is not warranted because there are no reasonable grounds to believe that a violation exists or has occurred, he shall notify the complainant in writing of such determination. The complainant may obtain review of this determination by submitting a written statement of position to the Executive Director for Operations, either by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;* by e-mail to *MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;* or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. The Executive Director for Operations will provide the licensee with a copy of such statement by certified mail, excluding, at the request of the complainant, the name of the complainant. The licensee may submit an opposing written statement of position with the Executive Director for Operations who will provide the complainant with a copy of such statement by certified mail. Upon the request of the complainant, the Executive Director for Operations or his designee may hold an informal conference in which the complainant and the licensee may orally present their views. An informal conference may also be held at the request of the licensee, but disclosure of the identity of the complainant will be made only following receipt of written authorization from the complainant. After considering all written and oral views presented, the Executive Director for Operations shall affirm, modify, or reverse the determination of the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office and furnish the complainant and the licensee a written notification of his decision and the reason therefor.


(b) If the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office determines that an inspection is not warranted because the requirements of ยง 19.16(a) have not been met, he shall notify the complainant in writing of such determination. Such determination shall be without prejudice to the filing of a new complaint meeting the requirements of ยง 19.16(a).



---

[N] [38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987; 67 FR 77652, Dec. 19, 2002; 68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74978, Dec. 1, 2015]




