# § 170.215   Application Programming Interface Standards.

The Secretary adopts the following standards and associated implementation specifications as the available standards for application programming interfaces (API):


(a) *API base standard.* The following are applicable for purposes of standards-based APIs.


(1) *Standard.* HL7® Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®) Release 4.0.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.299).


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *API constraints and profiles.* The following are applicable for purposes of constraining and profiling data standards.


(1) *United States Core Data Implementation Guides*—(i) *Implementation specification.* HL7® FHIR® US Core Implementation Guide STU 3.1.1 (incorporated by reference in § 170.299). The adoption of this standard expires on January 1, 2026.


(ii) *Implementation Specification.* HL7® FHIR® US Core Implementation Guide STU 6.1.0 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.299).


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Application access and launch.* The following are applicable for purposes of enabling client applications to access and integrate with data systems.


(1) *Implementation specification.* HL7® SMART Application Launch Framework Implementation Guide Release 1.0.0, including mandatory support for the “SMART Core Capabilities” (incorporated by reference, see § 170.299). The adoption of this standard expires on January 1, 2026.


(2) *Implementation specification.* HL7® SMART App Launch Implementation Guide Release 2.0.0, including mandatory support for the “Capability Sets” of “Patient Access for Standalone Apps” and “Clinician Access for EHR Launch”; all “Capabilities” as defined in “8.1.2 Capabilities,” excepting the “permission-online” capability; “Token Introspection” as defined in “7 Token Introspection” (incorporated by reference, see § 170.299).


(d) *Bulk export and data transfer standards.* The following are applicable for purposes of enabling access to large volumes of information on a group of individuals.


(1) *Implementation specification.* FHIR® Bulk Data Access (Flat FHIR®) (v1.0.0: STU 1), including mandatory support for the “group-export” “OperationDefinition” (incorporated by reference, see § 170.299).


(2) [Reserved]


(e) *API authentication, security, and privacy.* The following are applicable for purposes of authorizing and authenticating client applications.


(1) *Standard.* OpenID Connect Core 1.0, incorporating errata set 1 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.299).


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [89 FR 1428, Jan. 9, 2024]




