# § 1081.112   Formal requirements as to papers filed.

(a) *Form.* All papers filed by parties must:


(1) Set forth the name, address, telephone number, and email address of the counsel or party making the filing;


(2) Be double-spaced (except for single-spaced footnotes and single-spaced indented quotations) and printed or typewritten on 8
1/2 x 11 inch paper in 12-point or larger font;


(3) Include at the head of the paper, or on a title page, a caption setting forth the title of the case, the docket number of the proceeding, and a brief descriptive title indicating the purpose of the paper;


(4) Be paginated with margins at least one inch wide; and


(5) If filed by other than electronic means, be stapled, clipped, or otherwise fastened in a manner that lies flat when opened.


(b) *Signature.* All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 1081.108.


(c) *Number of copies.* Unless otherwise specified by the Director or the hearing officer, one copy of all documents and papers must be filed if filing is by electronic transmission. If filing is accomplished by any other means, an original and one copy of all documents and papers must be filed, except that only one copy of transcripts of testimony and exhibits must be filed.


(d) *Authority to reject document for filing.* The Office of Administrative Adjudication or the hearing officer may reject a document for filing that materially fails to comply with this part.


(e) *Sensitive personal information.* Sensitive personal information means an individual's Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, financial account number, credit card or debit card number, driver's license number, State-issued identification number, passport number, date of birth (other than year), and any sensitive health information identifiable by individual, such as an individual's medical records. Sensitive personal information must not be included in, and must be redacted or omitted from, filings unless the person filing the paper determines that such information is relevant or otherwise necessary for the conduct of the proceeding. If the person filing a paper determines the sensitive personal information contained in the paper is relevant or necessary to the proceeding, the person must file the paper in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, including filing an expurgated copy of the paper with the sensitive personal information redacted.


(f) *Confidential treatment of information in certain filings.* A party seeking confidential treatment of information contained in a filing must contemporaneously file either a motion requesting such treatment in accordance with § 1081.119 or a copy of the order from the Director, hearing officer, or Federal court authorizing such confidential treatment. The filing must comply with any applicable order of the Director or hearing officer and must be accompanied by:


(1) A complete, sealed copy of the documents containing the materials as to which confidential treatment is sought, with the allegedly confidential material clearly marked as such, and with the first page of the document labeled “Under Seal.” If the movant seeks or has obtained a protective order against disclosure to other parties as well as the public, copies of the documents will not be served on other parties; and


(2) An expurgated copy of the materials as to which confidential treatment is sought, with the allegedly confidential materials redacted. The redacted version must indicate any omissions with brackets or ellipses, and its pagination and depiction of text on each page must be identical to that of the sealed version.


(g) *Certificate of service.* Any papers filed in an adjudication proceeding must contain proof of service on all other parties or their counsel in the form of a statement of the date and manner of service and of the names of the persons served, certified by the person who made service. The certificate of service must be affixed to the papers filed and signed in accordance with § 1081.108.




