# ยง 641.700   What performance measures apply to Senior Community Service Employment Program grantees?

(a) *Measures of performance.* There are seven core performance measures. Core measures (defined in ยง 641.710) are subject to goal-setting and corrective action (described in ยง 641.720); that is, performance level goals for each core measure must be agreed upon between the Department and each grantee as described in ยง 641.720, and if a grantee fails to meet the performance level goals for the core measures, that grantee is subject to corrective action.


(b) *Core measures.* Section 513(b)(1) of the OAA establishes the following core measures of performance:


(1) Hours (in the aggregate) of community service employment;


(2) The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project;


(3) The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the project;


(4) The median earnings of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project;


(5) Indicators of effectiveness in serving employers, host agencies, and project participants;


(6) The number of eligible individuals served; and


(7) The number of most-in-need individuals served (the number of participating individuals described in OAA sec. 518(a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2)).


(c) *Affected entities.* The core measures of performance are applicable to each grantee without regard to whether such grantee operates the program directly or through sub-contracts, sub-grants, or agreements with other entities. Grantees must assure that their sub-grantees and lower-tier sub-grantees are collecting and reporting program data.


(d) *Required evaluation and reporting.* An agreement to be evaluated on the core measures of performance is a requirement for application for, and is a condition of, all SCSEP grants.




