# § 29.773   Pilot compartment view.

(a) *Nonprecipitation conditions.* For nonprecipitation conditions, the following apply: 


(1) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive, clear, and undistorted view for safe operation. 


(2) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the pilot's view. If certification for night operation is requested, this must be shown by ground or night flight tests.


(b) *Precipitation conditions.* For precipitation conditions, the following apply: 


(1) Each pilot must have a sufficiently extensive view for safe operation—


(i) In heavy rain at forward speeds up to *V*_H_; and 


(ii) In the most severe icing condition for which certification is requested. 


(2) The first pilot must have a window that—


(i) Is openable under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and 


(ii) Provides the view prescribed in that paragraph. 


(c) *Vision systems with transparent displays.* A vision system with a transparent display surface located in the pilot's outside field of view, such as a head up-display, head mounted display, or other equivalent display, must meet the following requirements in nonprecipitation and precipitation conditions:


(1) While the vision system display is in operation, it must compensate for interference with the pilot's outside field of view such that the combination of what is visible in the display and what remains visible through and around it, allows the pilot compartment to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(2) The pilot's view of the external scene may not be distorted by the transparent display surface or by the vision system imagery. When the vision system displays imagery or any symbology that is referenced to the imagery and outside scene topography, including attitude symbology, flight path vector, and flight path angle reference cue, that imagery and symbology must be aligned with, and scaled to, the external scene.


(3) The vision system must provide a means to allow the pilot using the display to immediately deactivate and reactivate the vision system imagery, on demand, without removing the pilot's hands from the primary flight and power controls, or their equivalent.


(4) When the vision system is not in operation it must permit the pilot compartment to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-3, 33 FR 967, Jan. 26, 1968; Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 29-56, 81 FR 90170, Dec. 13, 2016; Docket FAA-2016-9275, Amdt. 29-57, 83 FR 9423, Mar. 6, 2018] 




