# § 721.10553   Potassium titanium oxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as potassium titanium oxide (PMN P-06-149; CAS No. 12673-69-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4) and (a)(6)(i). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters.


(D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA filters.


(E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).


(*1*) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1.5 mg/m
3. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.


(*2*) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv)(use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 1.5 mg/m
3), and (a)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k)(manufacture of the substance with a particle size of at least 100 nanometers).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]




