# ยง 30.72   Civil penalty procedures.

(a) *General.* Whenever a civil penalty is sought for a violation of this part, the charged party is entitled to receive a formal complaint specifying the charges and, at his or her request, to contest the charges in a hearing before an administrative law judge. Any such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557.


(b) *Applicable law for delegated function.* If, pursuant to 13 U.S.C. 306, the Secretary delegates functions addressed in this part to another agency, the provisions of law of that agency relating to penalty assessment, remission or mitigation of such penalties, collection of such penalties, and limitations of action and compromise of claims shall apply.


(c) *Commencement of civil actions.* If any person fails to pay a civil penalty imposed under this subpart, the Secretary may request the Attorney General to commence a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States to recover the amount imposed (plus interest at currently prevailing rates from the date of the final order). No such action may be commenced more than five years after the date the order imposing the civil penalty becomes final. In such action, the validity, amount, and appropriateness of such penalty shall not be subject to review.


(d) *Remission and mitigation.* Any penalties imposed under ยง 30.71(b)(1) and (b)(2) may be remitted or mitigated, if:


(1) The penalties were incurred without willful negligence or fraud; or


(2) Other circumstances exist that justify a remission or mitigation.


(e) *Deposit of payments in General Fund of the Treasury.* Any amount paid in satisfaction of a civil penalty imposed under this subpart shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury and credited as miscellaneous receipts, other than a payment to remit a forfeiture which shall be deposited into the Treasury Forfeiture fund.




