# ยง 721.1150   Substituted polyglycidyl benzenamine.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The following chemical substance, referred to by premanufacture notice number and its generic chemical name, is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: Substituted polyglycidyl benzeneamine, P-83-394.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) Use in spray applications.


(ii) Manufacture or processing without establishing a program whereby:


(A) During all stages of manufacture and processing of the substance, and during response to emergencies and spills involving the substance, any person employed by or under the control of the manufacturer or processor who may potentially be dermally exposed to the substance wears:


(*1*) Gloves which cover the arm up to the elbow and which have been determined to be impervious to the substance under conditions of exposure (gloves may be determined to be impervious by standard testing methods or by reliance on the manufacturer's specifications for those gloves selected);


(*2*) A face shield of at least 8 inches in length; and 


(*3*) Clothing which covers any other exposed areas of the arms, legs, and torso. 


(B) All workers described in paragraph (a)(ii)(A) of this section are informed in writing, or by presenting the information as part of a training program in a safety meeting where attendance is recorded, of the following: To avoid all contact with this substance; that structurally similar chemicals have been found to cause cancer, reproductive effects, kidney and liver effects in laboratory animals, and allergic reactions in humans; that this substance is a severe skin and eye irritant; and that the use of impervious gloves, face shields and other clothing to cover exposed areas of the arms, the legs, and the torso is required.


(C) A label is affixed to each container of the substance or of a formulation containing the substance which (in a print size no smaller than ten point type) contains, at a minimum, the following information:


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* In addition to the requirements of ยง 721.17, manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must maintain the following records for five years from their creation:


(i) The names of persons informed, the date they are informed, and the means by which they are informed in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.


(ii) The names of any transferee and the dates of any transfers of containers which are labeled in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.


(iii) The method used to determine that the protective gloves are impervious to the substance and date and the results of that determination.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [49 FR 43653, Oct. 31, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




