# § 60.5406c   What test methods and procedures must I use for my process unit equipment designated facilities?

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, you must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A to this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).


(b) You must determine compliance with the standards in § 60.5401c as follows:


(1) Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used to determine the presence of leaking sources. The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part. The following calibration gases shall be used:


(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppmv of hydrocarbon in air); and


(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration no more than 2,000 ppmv greater than the leak definition concentration of the equipment monitored. If the monitoring instrument's design allows for multiple calibration scales, then the lower scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is no higher than 2,000 ppmv above the concentration specified as a leak, and the highest scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is approximately or equal to 10,000 ppmv. If only one scale on an instrument will be used during monitoring, you need not calibrate the scales that will not be used during that day's monitoring.


(iii) Verification that your monitoring equipment meets the requirements specified in Section 6.0 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part. For purposes of instrument capability, the leak definition shall be 500 ppmv or greater methane using a FID-based instrument for valves and connectors and 2,000 ppmv methane or greater for pumps. If you wish to use an analyzer other than a FID-based instrument, you must develop a site-specific leak definition that would be equivalent to 500 ppmv methane using a FID-based instrument (*e.g.,* 10.6 eV PID with a specified isobutylene concentration as the leak definition would provide equivalent response to your compound of interest).


(2) The instrument must be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part. At minimum, you must also conduct precision tests at the interval specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, Section 8.1.2, and a calibration drift assessment at the end of each monitoring day. The calibration drift assessment must be conducted as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. Corrective action for drift assessments is specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.


(i) Check the instrument using the same calibration gas that was used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, Section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. If multiple scales are used, record the instrument reading for each scale used. Divide the arithmetic difference of the initial and post-test calibration response by the corresponding calibration gas value for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage.


(ii) If a calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent, then all equipment with instrument readings between the fugitive emission definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift) divided by 100 and the fugitive emission definition that was monitored since the last calibration must be re-monitored.


(iii) If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment with instrument readings above the fugitive emission definition and below the fugitive emission definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift) divided by 100 monitored since the last calibration may be re-monitored.


(c) You shall determine compliance with the no detectable emission standards in § 60.5401c(b) and (f) as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply.


(2) Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used to determine the background level. All potential leak interfaces shall be traversed as close to the interface as possible. The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level is compared with 500 ppmv for determining compliance.


(d) You shall demonstrate that a piece of equipment is in light liquid service by showing that all of the following conditions apply:


(1) The vapor pressure of one or more of the organic components is greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H_2_O at68 °F). Standard reference texts or ASTM D2879-83, -96, or -97 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the vapor pressures.


(2) The total concentration of the pure organic components having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H_2_O at 68 °F) is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight.


(3) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.


(e) Samples used in conjunction with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be representative of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts the equipment, or the gas being combusted in the flare.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62924, Aug. 1, 2024]






