# ยง 334.150   Severn River at Annapolis, Md.; experimental test area, U.S. Navy Marine Engineering Laboratory.

(a) *The restricted area.* The waters of Severn River shoreward of a line beginning at the southeasternmost corner of the U.S. Navy Marine Engineering Laboratory sea wall and running thence southwesterly perpendicular to the main Severn River channel, approximately 560 feet, thence northwesterly parallel to and 50 feet shoreward of the edge of the channel, 1,035 feet, and thence northeasterly perpendicular to the channel, approximately 600 feet, to the shore. Spar buoys will mark the corners of the area adjacent to the channel.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) No vessel or person other than specifically authorized military and naval vessels and persons shall enter or remain in the area during its use for experimental purposes. At all other times vessels and persons may use the area without restriction.


(2) The area will be in use intermittently, and this use will be signified by the presence of white-painted boats or floats, which will be lighted at night.


(3) Upon observing the boats or floats referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or upon being warned, vessels and persons shall immediately vacate the area and remain outside the area during the period of use.


(4) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commandant, Severn River Naval Command, and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [17 FR 2573, Mar. 25, 1952, as amended at 30 FR 5631, Apr. 21, 1965. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985]




