# ยง 532.219   Criteria for establishing nonappropriated fund wage areas.

(a) Each wage area shall consist of one or more survey areas along with nonsurvey areas, if any, having nonappropriated fund employees.


(1) *Survey area:* A survey area is composed of the counties, parishes, cities, or townships in which survey data are collected.


(2) *Nonsurvey area:* Nonsurvey counties, parishes, or townships may be combined with the survey area to form the wage area through consideration of the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(b) Wage areas shall be established when: 


(1) There is a minimum of 26 NAF wage employees in the survey area and local activities have the capability to do the survey; and 


(2) There is within the survey area a minimum of 1,800 private enterprise employees in establishments within survey specifications. 


(c)(1) Two or more counties may be combined to constitute a single wage area through consideration of:


(i) Proximity of largest activity in each county;


(ii) Transportation facilities and commuting patterns; and 


(iii) Similarities of the counties in:


(A) Overall population;


(B) Private employment in major industry categories; and 


(C) Kinds and sizes of private industrial establishments.


(2) Generally, the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are considered in the order listed.


(d) The nonappropriated fund wage and survey area definitions are set out as appendix D to this subpart and are incorporated in and made part of this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 46143, Nov. 1, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 29783, July 7, 1992]




