# § 199.176   Markings on lifesaving appliances.

(a) *Lifeboats and rescue boats.* Each lifeboat and rescue boat must be plainly marked as follows:


(1) Each side of each lifeboat and rescue boat bow must be marked in block capital letters and numbers with—


(i) The name of the vessel; and


(ii) The name of the port required to be marked on the stern of the vessel to meet the requirements of subpart 67.123 of this chapter.


(2) The number of persons for which the boast is equipped must be clearly marked, preferably on the bow, in permanent characters. The number of persons for which the boat is equipped must not exceed the number of persons shown on its nameplate.


(3) The number of the boat and a means of identifying the vessel to which the boat belongs, such as the vessel's name, must be plainly marked or painted so that the markings are visible from above the boat.


(4) The Type II retro-reflective material approved under approval series 164.018 must be placed on the boat to meet the arrangement requirements in IMO Resolution A.658(16).


(b) *Rigid liferafts.* Each rigid liferaft must be marked as follows:


(1) The name of the vessel must be marked on each rigid liferaft.


(2) The name of the port required to be marked on the stern of the vessel to meet the requirements of § 67.123 of this chapter must be marked on each rigid liferaft.


(3) The rigid liferaft must be marked with the words “SOLAS A pack” or “SOLAS B pack”, to reflect the pack inside.


(4) The length of the painter must be marked on each rigid liferaft.


(5) At each entrance of each rigid liferaft, the number of persons for which the rigid liferaft is equipped must be marked in letters and numbers at least 100 millimeters (4 inches) high and in a color contrasting to that of the liferaft. The number of persons for which the liferaft is equipped must not exceed the number of persons shown on its nameplate.



---

[N] [CGD 84-69, 61 FR 52313, May 20, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 52819, Oct. 1, 1998]




