# § 31.163   Requirements when a wholesale dealer in liquors maintains a retail department.

(a) *Constructive receipt and sale.* When a wholesale dealer in liquors maintains a separate department on the premises for the retailing of distilled spirits, and the retail sales of distilled spirits normally represent 90 percent or more of the volume of distilled spirits sold, the dealer may “constructively” receive all distilled spirits in the retail department. Sales involving a wholesale transaction may be “constructively” sold through the wholesale department.


(1) *Receipts.* In lieu of maintaining and preparing the records required by § 31.155, a wholesale dealer may constructively receive all distilled spirits in its retail department. In this case, the receiving document will serve as a receipt for (through) the wholesale department and a disposition (transfer) to the retail department. The receiving document must be maintained by the retail department in accordance with § 31.171.


(2) *Dispositions.* In lieu of maintaining and preparing the records required by § 31.156, a wholesale dealer may constructively sell distilled spirits from its retail department to other dealers. The sales invoice or bill must be filed in the wholesaler's disposition records and will serve as a record of receipt from the retail department and a record of disposition to another dealer.


(b) *Receipt and disposition records.* Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, a wholesale dealer must prepare and maintain the required records of receipt and disposition as prescribed in §§ 31.155 and 31.156. Transfers between the wholesale and retail departments will be treated in the same manner as any other transaction involving the wholesale department.


(c) *Monthly summary report.* When required by § 31.160, a wholesale dealer must prepare and file the monthly summary report of actual or constructive receipts and dispositions of all distilled spirits.


(d) *Physical separation.* Wholesale and retail departments need not be physically separated.


