# § 121.221   Fire precautions.

(a) Each compartment must be designed so that, when used for storing cargo or baggage, it meets the following requirements: 


(1) No compartment may include controls, wiring, lines, equipment, or accessories that would upon damage or failure, affect the safe operation of the airplane unless the item is adequately shielded, isolated, or otherwise protected so that it cannot be damaged by movement of cargo in the compartment and so that damage to or failure of the item would not create a fire hazard in the compartment. 


(2) Cargo or baggage may not interfere with the functioning of the fire-protective features of the compartment. 


(3) Materials used in the construction of the compartments, including tie-down equipment, must be at least flame resistant. 


(4) Each compartment must include provisions for safeguarding against fires according to the classifications set forth in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. 


(b) *Class A.* Cargo and baggage compartments are classified in the “A” category if—


(1) A fire therein would be readily discernible to a member of the crew while at his station; and 


(2) All parts of the compartment are easily accessible in flight. 


(c) *Class B.* Cargo and baggage compartments are classified in the “B” category if enough access is provided while in flight to enable a member of the crew to effectively reach all of the compartment and its contents with a hand fire extinguisher and the compartment is so designed that, when the access provisions are being used, no hazardous amount of smoke, flames, or extinguishing agent enters any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers. Each Class B compartment must comply with the following: 


(1) It must have a separate approved smoke or fire detector system to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station. 


(2) There must be a hand fire extinguisher available for the compartment. 


(3) It must be lined with fire-resistant material, except that additional service lining of flame-resistant material may be used. 


(d) *Class C.* Cargo and baggage compartments are classified in the “C” category if they do not conform with the requirements for the “A”, “B”, “D”, or “E” categories. Each Class C compartment must comply with the following: 


(1) It must have a separate approved smoke or fire detector system to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station. 


(2) It must have an approved built-in fire-extinguishing system controlled from the pilot or flight engineer station. 


(3) It must be designed to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or extinguishing agents from entering into any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers. 


(4) It must have ventilation and draft controlled so that the extinguishing agent provided can control any fire that may start in the compartment. 


(5) It must be lined with fire-resistant material, except that additional service lining of flame-resistant material may be used. 


(e) *Class D.* Cargo and baggage compartments are classified in the “D” category if they are so designed and constructed that a fire occurring therein will be completely confined without endangering the safety of the airplane or the occupants. Each Class D compartment must comply with the following: 


(1) It must have a means to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or noxious gases from entering any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers. 


(2) Ventilation and drafts must be controlled within each compartment so that any fire likely to occur in the compartment will not progress beyond safe limits. 


(3) It must be completely lined with fire-resistant material. 


(4) Consideration must be given to the effect of heat within the compartment on adjacent critical parts of the airplane. 


(f) *Class E.* On airplanes used for the carriage of cargo only, the cabin area may be classified as a Class “E” compartment. Each Class E compartment must comply with the following: 


(1) It must be completely lined with fire-resistant material. 


(2) It must have a separate system of an approved type smoke or fire detector to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station. 


(3) It must have a means to shut off the ventilating air flow to or within the compartment and the controls for that means must be accessible to the flight crew in the crew compartment. 


(4) It must have a means to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or noxious gases from entering the flight crew compartment. 


(5) Required crew emergency exits must be accessible under all cargo loading conditions. 




