# ยง 385.404   Depositions during proceedings (Rule 404).

(a) *In general.* (1) A participant may obtain the attendance for a deposition by oral examination of any other participant, an employee or agent of that participant, or a person retained by that participant as a potential witness, by providing a notice of intent to depose. 


(2) Any participant may obtain the attendance of a nonparticipant for a deposition by oral examination by obtaining a subpoena, in accordance with Rule 409. For purposes of this rule, a Commission decisional employee, as defined in Rule 2201(a), is a nonparticipant. 


(b) *Notice.* (1) A participant seeking to take a deposition under this section must provide to all other participants written notice reasonably in advance of the deposition. The notice must be filed with the Commission and served on all participants. An original must be served on each person whose deposition is sought. 


(2) A notice of intent under this section must: 


(i) State the time and place at which the deposition will be taken, the name and address of each person to be examined, and the subject matter of the deposition; and


(ii) If known at the time that the deposition is noticed that its purpose is to preserve testimony, state that the deponent will be unable to testify at the hearing. 


(3)(i) A notice of intent under this section or a subpoena under Rule 409 may name as the deponent a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or a governmental agency, and describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. Such organization must, in response, designate one or more officers, directors, or managing agents, or other persons to testify on its behalf, and set forth, for each person designated, the matters on which that person will testify. 


(ii) A subpoena must advise any organization that is named as a deponent but is not a participant that it has a duty to designate a person to testify. Any person designated under this section must testify on matters known by, or reasonably available to, the organization. 


(c) *Taking of deposition.* (1) Each deponent must swear to or affirm the truth of the testimony given before any testimony is taken. 


(2) Any participant may examine and cross-examine a deponent. 


(3) Any objection made during the examination must be noted by the officer taking the deposition. After the objection is noted, the deponent must answer the question, unless a claim of privilege is asserted or the presiding officer rules otherwise. 


(4) The deposition must be transcribed verbatim. 


(d) *Nonstenographic means of recording; telephonic depositions.* Testimony at a deposition may be recorded by means other than stenography if all participants so stipulate or if the presiding officer, upon motion, so orders. Such stipulation or order shall designate the person before whom the deposition. will be taken, and the manner in which the deposition will be preserved, filed, and certified. Depositions may also be taken by telephone, if all participants so stipulate or the presiding officer, upon motion, orders. 


(e) *Officer taking deposition.* Depositions must be taken before an officer authorized to administer oaths or affirmations by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is held. A deposition may not be taken before an officer who is a relative or employee or attorney of any of the participants, or is financially or in any other way interested in the action. 


(f) *Submission to deponent.* (1) Unless examination is waived by the deponent, the transcription of the deposition must be submitted to the deponent for examination. 


(2) If the deponent requests any changes in form or substance, the officer must enter the changes on the deposition transcript with a statement of the witness' reasons for the changes. The deponent must sign the deposition within 30 days after submittal to the deponent, unless the participants by stipulation waive the signing or the deponent cannot or will not sign. By signing the deposition the deponent certifies that the transcript is a true record of the testimony given. 


(3) The officer who took the deposition must sign any deposition not signed by the deponent in accordance with this section and must state on the record that the signature is waived or that the deponent cannot or will not sign, accompanied by any reason given for a deponent's refusal to sign. If the officer complies with this paragraph, a deposition that is unsigned by the deponent may be used as though signed, unless the presiding officer rules otherwise. 


(g) *Certification and copies.* (1) The officer must certify on the transcript of the deposition that the deponent swore to or affirmed the truth of the testimony given and the deposition transcript is a true record of the testimony given by the deponent. The officer must provide the participant conducting the deposition with a copy of the transcription. 


(2) Documents and things produced for inspection during the examination of the witness will, upon the request of a participant, be marked for identification and annexed to the deposition and the officer will certify the document or thing as the original offered during the deposition, or as a true and correct copy of the original offered. 


(3) Copies of the transcript of a deposition may be purchased from the reporting service that made the transcription, subject to protections established by the presiding officer. 




