# § 324.121   Qualification process.

(a) *Timing.* (1) An FDIC-supervised institution that is described in § 324.100(b)(1)(i) through (iv) must adopt a written implementation plan no later than six months after the date the FDIC-supervised institution meets a criterion in that section. The implementation plan must incorporate an explicit start date no later than 36 months after the date the FDIC-supervised institution meets at least one criterion under § 324.100(b)(1)(i) through (iv). The FDIC may extend the start date.


(2) An FDIC-supervised institution that elects to be subject to this subpart under § 324.100(b)(1)(v) must adopt a written implementation plan.


(b) *Implementation plan.* (1) The FDIC-supervised institution's implementation plan must address in detail how the FDIC-supervised institution complies, or plans to comply, with the qualification requirements in § 324.122. The FDIC-supervised institution also must maintain a comprehensive and sound planning and governance process to oversee the implementation efforts described in the plan. At a minimum, the plan must:


(i) Comprehensively address the qualification requirements in § 324.122 for the FDIC-supervised institution and each consolidated subsidiary (U.S. and foreign-based) of the FDIC-supervised institution with respect to all portfolios and exposures of the FDIC-supervised institution and each of its consolidated subsidiaries;


(ii) Justify and support any proposed temporary or permanent exclusion of business lines, portfolios, or exposures from the application of the advanced approaches in this subpart (which business lines, portfolios, and exposures must be, in the aggregate, immaterial to the FDIC-supervised institution);


(iii) Include the FDIC-supervised institution's self-assessment of:


(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's current status in meeting the qualification requirements in § 324.122; and


(B) The consistency of the FDIC-supervised institution's current practices with the FDIC's supervisory guidance on the qualification requirements;


(iv) Based on the FDIC-supervised institution's self-assessment, identify and describe the areas in which the FDIC-supervised institution proposes to undertake additional work to comply with the qualification requirements in § 324.122 or to improve the consistency of the FDIC-supervised institution's current practices with the FDIC's supervisory guidance on the qualification requirements (gap analysis);


(v) Describe what specific actions the FDIC-supervised institution will take to address the areas identified in the gap analysis required by paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section;


(vi) Identify objective, measurable milestones, including delivery dates and a date when the FDIC-supervised institution's implementation of the methodologies described in this subpart will be fully operational;


(vii) Describe resources that have been budgeted and are available to implement the plan; and


(viii) Receive approval of the FDIC-supervised institution's board of directors.


(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must submit the implementation plan, together with a copy of the minutes of the board of directors' approval, to the FDIC at least 60 days before the FDIC-supervised institution proposes to begin its parallel run, unless the FDIC waives prior notice.


(c) *Parallel run.* Before determining its risk-weighted assets under this subpart and following adoption of the implementation plan, the FDIC-supervised institution must conduct a satisfactory parallel run. A satisfactory parallel run is a period of no less than four consecutive calendar quarters during which the FDIC-supervised institution complies with the qualification requirements in § 324.122 to the satisfaction of the FDIC. During the parallel run, the FDIC-supervised institution must report to the FDIC on a calendar quarterly basis its risk-based capital ratios determined in accordance with § 324.10(b)(1) through (3) and § 324.10(d)(1) through (3). During this period, the FDIC-supervised institution's minimum risk-based capital ratios are determined as set forth in subpart D of this part.


(d) *Approval to calculate risk-based capital requirements under this subpart.* The FDIC will notify the FDIC-supervised institution of the date that the FDIC-supervised institution must begin to use this subpart for purposes of § 324.10 if the FDIC determines that:


(1) The FDIC-supervised institution fully complies with all the qualification requirements in § 324.122;


(2) The FDIC-supervised institution has conducted a satisfactory parallel run under paragraph (c) of this section; and


(3) The FDIC-supervised institution has an adequate process to ensure ongoing compliance with the qualification requirements in § 324.122.



---

[N] [78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 745, Jan. 6, 2021]




