# § 1102.8   Exemptions.

(a) 5 U.S.C. 552(b) provides that the requirements of the FOIA do not apply to matters that are: 


(1) *Classified documents.* Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and that are, in fact, properly classified under the Executive order. 


(2) *Internal personnel rules and practices.* Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency. 


(3) *Information exempt under other laws.* Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, provided that the statute— 


(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue or 


(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld. 


(4) *Confidential business information.* Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential. 


(5) *Internal government communications.* Interagency or intra-agency memorandums or letters which would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the agency. 


(6) *Personal privacy.* Personnel, medical, and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. 


(7) *Law enforcement.* Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information: 


(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings; 


(ii) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication; 


(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; 


(iv) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation information furnished by a confidential source; 


(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or 


(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual. 


(8) *Financial institutions.* Contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions. 


(9) *Geological information.* Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells. 


(b) The Section will provide any reasonably segregable portion of a record to a requester after deletion of the portions that are exempt under this section. 


(c) The section will invoke no exemption under this section if the requested records are available to the requester under the Privacy Act of 1974 and its implementing regulations.


(d) Whenever a request is made which involves access to records described in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section and


(1) The investigation or proceeding involves a possible violation of criminal law, and


(2) There is reason to believe that the subject of the investigation or proceeding is not aware of its pendency, and disclosure of the existence of the records could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings, the agency may, during only such time as that circumstance continues, treat the records as not subject to the requirements of this section.




