# ยง 702.5   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms have the meaning specified, except where otherwise indicated:


(a) *Cumulative measurement period* means the period of time over which both cumulative production and cumulative revenue are measured.


(1) For purposes of determining the beginning of the cumulative measurement period, subject to regulatory authority approval, the operator must select and consistently use one of the following:


(i) For mining areas where coal or other minerals were extracted prior to August 3, 1977, the date extraction of coal or other minerals commenced at that mining area or August 3, 1977, or


(ii) For mining areas where extraction of coal or other minerals commenced on or after August 3, 1977, the date extraction of coal or other minerals commenced at that mining area, whichever is earlier.


(2) For annual reporting purposes pursuant to ยง 702.18 of this part, the end of the period for which cumulative production and revenue is calculated is either 


(i) For mining areas where coal or other minerals were extracted prior to April 1, 1990, March 31, 1990, and every March 31 thereafter; or


(ii) For mining areas where extraction of coal or other minerals commenced on or after April 1, 1990, the last day of the calendar quarter during which coal extraction commenced, and each anniversary of that day thereafter.


(b) *Cumulative production* means the total tonnage of coal or other minerals extracted from a mining area during the cumulative measurement period. The inclusion of stockpiled coal and other mineral tonnages in this total is governed by ยง 702.16.


(c) *Cumulative revenue* means the total revenue derived from the sale of coal or other minerals and the fair market value of coal or other minerals transferred or used, but not sold, during the cumulative measurement period.


(d) *Mining area* means an individual excavation site or pit from which coal, other minerals and overburden are removed.


(e) *Other minerals* means any commercially valuable substance mined for its mineral value, excluding coal, topsoil, waste and fill material.




