# ยง 2.21   Regional Transmission Groups.

(a) *General policy.* The Commission encourages Regional Transmission Groups (RTGs) as a means of enabling the market for electric power to operate in a more competitive and efficient way. The Commission believes that RTGs can provide a means of coordinating regional planning of the transmission system and assuring that system capabilities are always adequate to meet system demands. RTG agreements that contain components that satisfy paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section generally will be considered to be just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or preferential under the Federal Power Act (FPA). The Commission encourages RTG agreements that contain as much detail as possible in all of the components listed, particularly if the RTG participants will be seeking Commission deference to decisions reached under an RTG agreement.


(b) *Organizational components.* (1) An RTG agreement should provide for broad membership and, at a minimum, allow any entity that is subject to, or eligible to apply for, an order under section 211 of the FPA to be a member. An RTG agreement should encompass an area of sufficient size and contiguity to enable members to provide transmission services in a reliable, efficient, and competitive manner.


(2) An RTG agreement should provide a means of adequate consultation and coordination with relevant state regulatory, siting, and other authorities.


(3) An RTG agreement should include fair and nondiscriminatory governance and decision making procedures, including voting procedures.


(c) *Other components.* (1) An RTG agreement should impose on member transmitting utilities an obligation to provide transmission services for other members, including the obligation to enlarge facilities, on a basis that is consistent with sections 205, 206, 211, 212 and 213 of the FPA. To the extent practicable and known, the RTG agreement should specify the terms and conditions under which transmission services will be offered.


(2) An RTG agreement should require, at a minimum, the development of a coordinated transmission plan on a regional basis and the sharing of transmission planning information, with the goal of efficient use, expansion, and coordination of the interconnected electric system on a grid-wide basis. An RTG agreement should provide mechanisms to incorporate the transmission needs of non-members into regional plans. An RTG agreement should include as much detail as possible with regard to operational and planning procedures.


(3) An RTG agreement should include voluntary dispute resolution procedures that provide a fair alternative to resorting in the first instance to section 206 complaints or section 211 proceedings.


(4) An RTG agreement should include an exit provision for RTG members that leave the RTG, specifying the obligations of a departing member.


(d) *Filing procedures.* Any proposed RTG agreement that in any manner affects or relates to the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce by a public utility, or rates or charges for such transmission, must be filed with the Commission. Any public utility member of a proposed RTG may file the RTG agreement with the Commission on behalf of the other public utility members under section 205 of the FPA.



---

[N] [58 FR 41632, Aug. 5, 1993]




