# § 60.5412b   What additional requirements must I meet for determining initial compliance of my control devices?

You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for each control device used to comply with the emissions standards for your well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, storage vessel, process controller, pump, or process unit equipment affected facility. If you use a carbon adsorption system as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you also must meet the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) Each control device used to meet the emissions reduction standard in § 60.5377b(d) or (f) for your associated gas well at a well affected facility; § 60.5376b(g) for your well affected facility gas well that unloads liquids; § 60.5380b(a)(1) or (9) for your centrifugal compressor affected facility; § 60.5385b(d)(2) for your reciprocating compressor affected facility; § 60.5395b(a)(2) for your storage vessel affected facility; § 60.5390b(b)(3) for your process controller affected facility in Alaska; § 60.5393b(b)(3) for your pumps affected facility; or either § 60.5400b(f) or § 60.5401b(e) for your process equipment affected facility must be installed according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. As an alternative to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you may install a combustion control device model tested under § 60.5413b(d), which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and which meets the initial and continuous compliance requirements in § 60.5413b(e).


(1) Each enclosed combustion device (*e.g.,* thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) must be designed and operated in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, meet one of the operating limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) through (v) of this section, and except for boilers and process heaters meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section and catalytic vapor incinerators meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section, meet the operating limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(vi) through (ix) of this section. Alternatively, the enclosed combustion device must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(i) You must reduce the mass content of methane and VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater or reduce the concentration of total organic compounds (TOC) in the exhaust gases at the outlet to the device to a level equal to or less than 275 ppmv as propane on a wet basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413b(b), with the exceptions noted in § 60.5413b(a).


(ii) For an enclosed combustion device for which you demonstrate during the performance test conducted under § 60.5413b(b) that combustion zone temperature is an indicator of destruction efficiency, you must operate at or above the minimum temperature established during the most recent performance test. During the performance test conducted under § 60.5413b(b), you must continuously record the temperature of the combustion zone and average the temperature for each test run. The established minimum temperature limit is the average of the test run averages.


(iii) For an enclosed combustion device which is a boiler or process heater, you must introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater and introduce the vent stream with the primary fuel or use the vent stream as the primary fuel.


(iv) For an enclosed combustion device other than those meeting the operating limits in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii), (iii), and (v) of this section, if the enclosed combustion device is unassisted or pressure-assisted, you must maintain the net heating value (NHV) of the gas sent to the enclosed combustion device at or above the applicable limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section. If the enclosed combustion device is steam-assisted or air-assisted, you must meet the applicable limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(iv)(C) and (D) of this section, as appropriate.


(A) For enclosed combustion devices that do not use assist gas or pressure-assisted burner tips to promote mixing at the burner tip, 200 British thermal units (Btu) per standard cubic feet (Btu/scf).


(B) For enclosed combustion devices that use pressure-assisted burner tips to promote mixing at the burner tip, 800 Btu/scf.


(C) For steam-assisted and air-assisted enclosed combustion devices, maintain the combustion zone NHV (NHV_cz_) at or above 270 Btu/scf.


(D) For enclosed combustion devices with perimeter assist air, maintain the NHV dilution parameter (NHV_dil_) at or above 22 British thermal units per square foot (Btu/sqft). If the only assist air provided to the enclosed combustion control device is perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam at the burner tip and the effective diameter is 9 inches or greater, you are only required to comply with the NHV_cz_ limit specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(C) of this section.


(v) For an enclosed combustion device which is a catalytic vapor incinerator, you must operate the catalytic vapor incinerator at or above the minimum temperature of the catalyst bed inlet and at or above the minimum temperature differential between the catalyst bed inlet and the catalyst bed outlet established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f) and as determined in your performance test conducted in accordance with § 60.5413b(b).


(vi) Unless you have an enclosed combustion device with pressure-assisted burner tips to promote mixing at the burner tip, you must operate each enclosed combustion device at or below the maximum inlet gas flow rate established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f) and as determined in your performance test conducted in accordance with § 60.5413b(b).


(vii) You must operate the combustion control device at or above the minimum inlet gas flow rate established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f).


(viii) You must install and operate a continuous burning pilot or combustion flame. An alert must be sent to the nearest control room whenever the pilot or combustion flame is unlit.


(ix) You must operate the enclosed combustion device with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period. A visible emissions test using section 11 of Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part must be performed at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each test. The observation period shall be 15 minutes or once the amount of time visible emissions is present has exceeded 1 minute, whichever time period is less. Alternatively, you may conduct visible emissions monitoring according to § 60.5417b(h). Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All inspection, repair, and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection. Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part visual observation as described in this paragraph or be monitored according to § 60.5417b(h).


(2) Each vapor recovery device (*e.g.,* carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device must be designed and operated to reduce the mass content of methane and VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413b(b). As an alternative to the performance testing requirements of § 60.5413b(b), you may demonstrate initial compliance by conducting a design analysis for vapor recovery devices according to the requirements of § 60.5413b(c). For a condenser, you also must calculate the daily average condenser outlet temperature in accordance with § 60.5417b(e), and you must determine the condenser efficiency for the current operating day using the daily average condenser outlet temperature and the condenser performance curve established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f)(2). You must determine the average TOC emission reduction in accordance with § 60.5415b(f)(1)(ix)(D). For a carbon adsorption system, you also must comply with paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) Each flare must be designed and operated according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (viii) of this section, as applicable. Alternatively, flares must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(i) For unassisted flares, you must maintain the NHV of the vent gas sent to the flare at or above 200 Btu/scf.


(ii) For flares that use pressure-assisted burner tips to promote mixing at the burner tip, you must maintain the NHV of the vent gas sent to the flare at or above 800 Btu/scf.


(iii) For steam-assisted and air-assisted flares, you must maintain the NHV_cz_ at or above 270 Btu/scf.


(iv) For flares with perimeter assist air, you must maintain the NHV_dil_ at or above 22 Btu/sqft. If the only assist air provided to the flare is perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam at the flare tip and the effective diameter is 9 inches or greater, you are not required to comply with the NHV_dil_ limit.


(v) For flares other than pressure-assisted flares, you must demonstrate compliance with the flare tip velocity limits in § 60.18(b) according to § 60.5417b(d)(8)(iv). The maximum flare tip velocity limits do not apply for pressure-assisted flares.


(vi) You must operate the flare at or above the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The minimum inlet gas flow rate is established based on manufacturer recommendations.


(vii) You must operate the flare with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period. You must conduct the compliance determination with the visible emission limits using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part, or you must monitor the flare according to § 60.5417b(h).


(viii) You must install and operate a continuous burning pilot or combustion flame. An alert must be sent to the nearest control room whenever the pilot or combustion flame is unlit.


(b) You must operate each control device installed on your well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, storage vessel, process controller, pump, or process unit equipment affected facility in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) You must operate each control device used to comply with this subpart at all times when gases, vapors, and fumes are vented from the affected facility through the closed vent system to the control device. You may vent more than one affected facility to a control device used to comply with this subpart.


(2) For each control device monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5417b(a) through (i), you must demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of § 60.5415b(f), as applicable.


(c) For each carbon adsorption system used as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the carbon adsorption system is a regenerative-type carbon adsorption system, you also must comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(1) You must manage the carbon in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Following the initial startup of the control device, you must replace all carbon in the carbon adsorption system with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established according to § 60.5413b(c)(2) or (3). You must maintain records identifying the schedule for replacement and records of each carbon replacement as required in § 60.5420b(c)(11).


(ii) You must either regenerate, reactivate, or burn the spent carbon removed from the carbon adsorption system in one of the units specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) Regenerate or reactivate the spent carbon in a unit for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart X.


(B) Regenerate or reactivate the spent carbon in a unit equipped with an operating organic air emissions control in accordance with an emissions standard for VOC under another subpart in 40 CFR part 63 or this part.


(C) Burn the spent carbon in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE, and has submitted a Notification of Compliance under 40 CFR 63.1207(j).


(D) Burn the spent carbon in a hazardous waste boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE, and has submitted a Notification of Compliance under 40 CFR 63.1207(j).


(E) Burn the spent carbon in an industrial furnace for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(F) Burn the spent carbon in an industrial furnace that you have designed and operated in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(2) You must comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section for each regenerative-type carbon adsorption system.


(i) You must measure and record the average total regeneration stream mass flow or volumetric flow during each carbon bed regeneration cycle to demonstrate compliance with the total regeneration stream flow established in accordance with § 60.5413b(c)(2).


(ii) You must check the mechanical connections for leakage at least every month, and you must perform a visual inspection at least every 3 months of all components of the flow continuous parameter monitoring system for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion, if your continuous parameter monitoring system is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.


(iii) You must measure and record the average carbon bed temperature for the duration of the carbon bed steaming cycle and measure the actual carbon bed temperature after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing the cooling cycle. You must maintain the average carbon bed temperature above the temperature limit in established accordance with § 60.5413b(c)(2) during the carbon bed steaming cycle and below the carbon bed temperature established in in accordance with § 60.5413b(c)(2) after the regeneration cycle.


(d) To demonstrate that a flare or enclosed combustion device reduces methane and VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater, as outlined in § 60.8(b), you may submit a request for an alternative test method. At a minimum, the request must follow the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The alternative method must be capable of demonstrating continuous compliance with a combustion efficiency of 95.0 percent or greater or it must be capable of demonstrating continuous compliance with the following metrics:


(i) NHV_cz_ of 270 Btu/scf or greater.


(ii) NHV_dil_ of 22 Btu/sqft or greater, if the alternative test method will be used for enclosed combustion devices or flares with perimeter assist air.


(2) The alternative method must be validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 63 for each type of control device covered by the alternative test method (*e.g.,* air-assisted flare, unassisted enclosed combustion device) or the alternative test method must contain performance-based procedures and indicators to ensure self-validation.


(3) At a minimum the alternative test method must provide a reading for each successive 15-minute period.


(4) The alternative test method must be capable of documenting periods when the enclosed combustion device or flare operates with visible emissions. If the alternative test method cannot identify periods of visible emissions, you must conduct the inspections required by § 60.5417b(d)(8)(v).


(5) If the alternative test method demonstrates compliance with the metrics specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section instead of demonstrating continuous compliance with 95.0 percent or greater combustion efficiency, you must still install the pilot or combustion flame monitoring system required by § 60.5417b(d)(8)(i). If the alternative test method demonstrates continuous compliance with a combustion efficiency of 95.0 percent or greater, the requirement in § 60.5417b(d)(8)(i) no longer applies.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62897, Aug. 1, 2024]




