# § 52.01-140   Certification by stamping (modifies PG-104 through PG-113).

(a) All boilers built in accordance with this part must be stamped with the appropriate ASME symbol as required by PG-104 through PG-113 of Section I of the ASME BPVC (incorporated by reference; see § 52.01-1).


(b)(1) Upon satisfactory completion of the tests and Coast Guard inspections, boilers must be stamped with the following:


(i) Manufacturer's name and serial number;


(ii) ASME symbol;


(iii) Coast Guard symbol, which is affixed only by marine inspector (see § 50.10-15 of this subchapter);


(iv) Maximum allowable working pressure __ at __  °C ( °F): and


(v) Boiler rated steaming capacity in kilograms (pounds) per hour (rated joules (Btu) per hour output for high temperature water boilers).


(2) The information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be located on:


(i) The front head or shell near the normal waterline and within 610 mm (24 inches) of the front of firetube boilers; and


(ii) The drum head of water tube boilers.


(3) Heating boilers built to Section I of the ASME BPVC, as permitted by § 53.01-10(e) of this subchapter, do not require Coast Guard stamping but must receive full ASME stamping including the appropriate code symbol.


(c) The data must be legibly stamped and must not be obliterated during the life of the boiler. In the event that the portion of the boiler upon which the data is stamped is to be insulated or otherwise covered, a metal nameplate as described in PG-106.6 of Section I of the ASME BPVC must be furnished and mounted. The nameplate is to be maintained in a legible condition so that the data may be easily read.


(d) Safety valves must be stamped as indicated in PG-110 of the ASME BPVC.



---

[N] [CGD 81-79, 50 FR 9433, Mar. 8, 1985, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65162, Oct. 31, 2008]




