# ยง 1271.155   Exemptions and alternatives.

(a) *General.* You may request an exemption from or alternative to any requirement in subpart C or D of this part.


(b) *Request for exemption or alternative.* Submit your request under this section to the Director of the appropriate Center (the Director), e.g., the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research or the Center for Devices and Radiological Health. The request must be accompanied by supporting documentation, including all relevant valid scientific data, and must contain either:


(1) Information justifying the requested exemption from the requirement, or


(2) A description of a proposed alternative method of meeting the requirement.


(c) *Criteria for granting an exemption or alternative.* The Director may grant an exemption or alternative if he or she finds that such action is consistent with the goals of protecting the public health and/or preventing the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable diseases and that:


(1) The information submitted justifies an exemption; or


(2) The proposed alternative satisfies the purpose of the requirement.


(d) *Form of request.* You must ordinarily make your request for an exemption or alternative in writing (hard copy or electronically). However, if circumstances make it difficult (e.g., there is inadequate time) to submit your request in writing, you may make the request orally, and the Director may orally grant an exemption or alternative. You must follow your oral request with an immediate written request, to which the Director will respond in writing.


(e) *Operation under exemption or alternative.* You must not begin operating under the terms of a requested exemption or alternative until the exemption or alternative has been granted. You may apply for an extension of an exemption or alternative beyond its expiration date, if any.


(f) *Documentation.* If you operate under the terms of an exemption or alternative, you must maintain documentation of:


(1) FDA's grant of the exemption or alternative, and


(2) The date on which you began operating under the terms of the exemption or alternative.


(g) *Issuance of an exemption or alternative by the Director.* In a public health emergency, the Director may issue an exemption from, or alternative to, any requirement in part 1271. The Director may issue an exemption or alternative under this section if the exemption or alternative is necessary to assure that certain HCT/Ps will be available in a specified location to respond to an unanticipated immediate need for those HCT/Ps.




