# § 524.22   YCA program.

(a) Wardens are to ensure each committed youth offender is scheduled for a three-phase program plan which will include a classification phase, a treatment phase, and a pre-release phase. A program plan for each YCA inmate will be developed by the Unit Team as a part of the classification phase. The Warden may exempt a YCA inmate from program participation when individual circumstances warrant such exceptions. Such exceptions must be requested and acknowledged by the inmate, and the reason(s) for exemption must be documented in the inmate's central file. 


(1) *Classification phase:* The classification phase begins upon the inmate's arrival at the designated institution. It consists of evaluation, orientation, unit assignment, and concludes when the inmate has attended the initial classification (or transfer classification) meeting with the Unit Team. YCA inmates are to participate in the classification process prior to the development of their individual program plans. The YCA inmate is to have received a psychological screening prior to attending the initial classification meeting. YCA program plans will include specific goals relative to: 


(i) Behavior; 


(ii) Treatment/self improvement; 


(iii) Pre-release. 


(2) *Treatment phase:* YCA inmates are to be exposed to unit-based and community-based (if otherwise eligible) programs. Each YCA inmate shall be periodically reviewed during this phase. The treatment phase begins when the inmate attends the programs and activities described in the program plan which were established at the culmination of the classification phase. Each YCA inmate shall be assigned programs in accordance with the inmate's needs and the established program plan. The “program day” shall consist of morning, afternoon, and evening time periods, during which the inmate shall be scheduled for treatment programs, work, and leisure-time activities. The inmate shall be expected to comply with the program plan. The inmate's participation in a treatment program is required, not optional. An inmate's failure to participate may result in disciplinary action. 


(3) *Pre-release phase:* The YCA inmate shall enter the pre-release phase approximately 9 months prior to release. The pre-release phase is ordinarily divided into two segments: participation in the institution pre-release program and a stay at a Community Corrections Center (CCC), if otherwise eligible. Institution pre-release programs shall focus on the types of problems the inmate may face upon return to the community, such as re-establishing family relationships, managing a household, finding and keeping a job, and developing a successful life style. In addition, the pre-release phase may include visits from prospective employers. 


(b) Staff shall establish incentives to motivate YCA inmates and to encourage program completion. Examples of such incentives which may be used are special recognition, awards, and “vacation days”. 


(c) The program plan, and the YCA inmate's participation in fulfilling goals contained within the plan, are fundamental factors considered by the U.S. Parole Commission in determining when a YCA inmate should be paroled. Given the importance and joint use of the YCA programming process, the current program plan and a summary of the inmate's progress in meeting established treatment goals must be made available for review and discussion by the Commission at each parole hearing. In addition, a staff member familiar with the YCA inmate's case should be present at any parole hearing to clarify any questions concerning the plan or the inmate's progress in completing the plan. 


(d) Upon full and satisfactory completion of the program plan, the Warden will notify the U.S. Parole Commission and make a specific recommendation for release. 




