# § 239.66   Board review of the voluntary supervisory conversion application.

(a) *Board review of a voluntary supervisory conversion application.* The Board will generally approve the application to engage in a voluntary supervisory conversion unless it determines:


(1) The mutual holding company does not meet the eligibility requirements for a voluntary supervisory conversion under §§ 239.65(d) or because the proceeds from the sale of the conversion stock, less the expenses of the conversion, would be insufficient to satisfy any applicable viability requirement;


(2) The transaction is detrimental to or would cause potential injury to the mutual holding company, its subsidiary savings association, or the Deposit Insurance Fund or is contrary to the public interest;


(3) The mutual holding company or the acquiror, or the controlling parties or directors and officers of the mutual holding company or the acquiror, have engaged in unsafe or unsound practices in connection with the voluntary supervisory conversion; or


(4) The mutual holding company fails to justify an employment contract incidental to the conversion, or the employment contract will be an unsafe or unsound practice or represent a sale of control. In a voluntary supervisory conversion, the Board generally will not approve employment contracts of more than one year for the existing management.


(b) *Conditions the Board may impose on an approval.* (1) The Board will condition approval of a voluntary supervisory conversion application on all of the following.


(i) The conversion stock sale must be complete within three months after the Board approves the application. The Board may grant an extension for good cause.


(ii) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must comply with all filing requirements of subpart E of this part.


(iii) The mutual holding company must submit an opinion of independent legal counsel indicating that the sale of the shares complies with all applicable state securities law requirements.


(iv) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.


(v) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must satisfy any other requirements or conditions the Board may impose.


(2) The Board may condition approval of a voluntary supervisory conversion application on either of the following:


(i) The mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company must satisfy any conditions and restrictions the Board imposes to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund and the public interest, and to prevent potential injury or detriment to the mutual holding company before and after the conversion. The Board may impose these conditions and restrictions on the mutual holding company and the resulting stock holding company (before and after the conversion), the acquiror, controlling parties, or directors and officers of the mutual holding company or the acquiror; or


(ii) The mutual holding company or the resulting stock holding company must infuse a larger amount of capital, if necessary, for safety and soundness reasons.




