# § 86.609-98   Calculation and reporting of test results.

(a) Initial test results are calculated following the test procedures specified in § 86.608-98(a). Round the initial test results to the number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard expressed to one additional significant figure.


(b) Final test results for each test vehicle are calculated by summing the initial test results derived in paragraph (a) of this section for each test vehicle, dividing by the number of times that specific test has been conducted on the vehicle, and rounding to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable standard expressed to one additional significant figure.


(c) *Final deteriorated test results.* (1) *For each test vehicle.* The final deteriorated test results for each light-duty vehicle tested for exhaust emissions and/or refueling emissions according to subpart B, subpart C, or subpart R of this part are calculated by first multiplying or adding, as appropriate, the final test results by or to the appropriate deterioration factor derived from the certification process for the engine or evaporative/refueling family and model year to which the selected configuration belongs, and then by multiplying by the appropriate reactivity adjustment factor, if applicable, and rounding to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard. For the purpose of this paragraph (c), if a multiplicative deterioration factor as computed during the certification process is less than one, that deterioration factor is one. If an additive deterioration factor as computed during the certification process is less than zero, that deterioration factor will be zero.


(2) *Exceptions.* There are no deterioration factors for light-duty vehicle emissions obtained during spitback testing in accordance with § 86.146. Accordingly, for the fuel dispensing spitback test, the term “final deteriorated test results” means the final test results derived in paragraph (b) of this section for each test vehicle, rounded to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard.


(d) Within five working days after completion of testing of all vehicles pursuant to a test order, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a report which includes the following information:


(1) The location and description of the manufacturer's emission test facilities which were utilized to conduct testing reported pursuant to this section.


(2) The applicable standards against which the vehicles were tested.


(3) Deterioration factors for the selected configuration.


(4) A description of the vehicle selection method used.


(5) For each test conducted.


(i) Test vehicle description including:


(A) Configuration, engine family, and refueling family identification.


(B) Year, make, build date, and model of vehicle.


(C) Vehicle Identification Number.


(D) Miles accumulated on vehicle.


(ii) Location where mileage accumulation was conducted and description of accumulation schedule.


(iii) Test number, date initial test results, final results and final deteriorated test results for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests, and the reason for invalidation.


(iv) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance and/or testing which was performed on the test vehicle and:


(A) Has not been reported pursuant to any other paragraph of this subpart; and


(B) Will not be performed on all other production vehicles.


(v) Carbon dioxide emission values for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests.


(vi) Where a vehicle was deleted from the test sequence by authorization of the Administrator, the reason for the deletion.


(vii) Any other information the Administrator may request relevant to the determination as to whether the new motor vehicles being manufactured by the manufacturer do in fact conform with the regulations with respect to which the certificate of conformity was issued.


(6) The following statement and endorsement:



---

[N] [59 FR 16303, Apr. 6, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 31236, June 6, 1997; 79 FR 23701, Apr. 28, 2014]




