# § 51.2547   Definitions.

(a) *Well dried* means the kernel is firm and crisp. 


(b) *Very well dried* means the kernel is firm and crisp and the average moisture content of the lot does not exceed 7.00 percent or is specified. (See § 51.2548.) 


(c) *Loose kernels* means edible kernels or kernel portions which are out of the shell and which cannot be considered particles and dust. 


(d) *External (shell) defects* means any blemish affecting the hard covering around the kernel. Such defects include, but are not limited to, non-split shells, shells not split on suture, adhering hull material, light stained, or dark stained. 


(1) *Damage* by external (shell) defects means any specific defect described in paragraphs (d)(1) (i) through (v) of this section, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual shell or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table I.) 


(i) *Non-split shells* means shells are not opened or are partially opened and will not allow an 
18/1000 (.018) inch thick by 
1/4 (.25) inch wide gauge to slip into the opening. 


(ii) *Not split on suture* means shells are split other than on the suture and will allow an 
18/1000 (.018) inch thick by 
1/4 (.25) inch wide gauge to slip into the opening. 


(iii) *Adhering hull material* means an aggregate amount covers more than one-eighth of the total shell surface, or when readily noticeable on dyed shells. 


(iv) *Light stained* on raw or roasted nuts, means an aggregate amount of yellow to light brown or light gray discoloration is noticeably contrasting with the predominate color of the shell and affects more than one-fourth of the total shell surface or, on dyed nuts, when readily noticeable. 


(v) *Dark stained* on raw or roasted nuts, means an aggregate amount of dark brown, dark gray or black discoloration affects more than one-eighth of the total shell surface, or, on dyed nuts, when readily noticeable, provided that speckled appearing stain located within the area of one-fourth of the shell nearest the stem end shall be disregarded. 


(e) *Internal (kernel) defects* means any blemish affecting the kernel. Such defects include, but are not limited to evidence of insects, immature kernels, rancid kernels, mold, or decay. 


(1) *Damage* by internal (kernel) defects means any specific defect described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table II.) 


(i) *Immature kernels* are excessively thin or when a kernel fills less than three-fourths, but not less than one-half the shell cavity. 


(ii) *Kernel spotting* refers to dark brown or dark gray spots aggregating more than one-eighth of the surface of the kernel. 


(2) *Serious damage* by internal (kernel) defects means any specific defect described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) of this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or the marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table II.) 


(i) *Minor insect or vertebrate injury* means the kernel shows conspicuous evidence of feeding. 


(ii) *Insect damage* is an insect, insect fragment, web or frass attached to the kernel. No live insects shall be permitted. 


(iii) *Mold* which is readily visible on the shell or kernel. 


(iv) *Rancidity* means the kernel is distinctly rancid to taste. Staleness of flavor shall not be classed as rancidity. 


(v) *Decay* means one-sixteenth or more of the kernel surface is decomposed. 


(f) *Other defects* means defects which cannot be considered internal defects or external defects. Such defects include, but are not limited to shell pieces, blanks, foreign material or particles and dust. The following shall be considered other defects. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table III.) 


(1) *Shell pieces* means open in-shell nuts not containing a kernel, half shells or pieces of shell which are loose in the sample. 


(2) *Blank* means a non-split shell not containing a kernel or containing a kernel that fills less than one-half the shell cavity. 


(3) *Foreign material* means leaves, sticks, loose hulls or hull pieces, dirt, rocks, insects or insect fragments not attached to nuts, or any substance other than pistachio shells or kernels. Glass, metal or live insects shall not be permitted. 


(4) *Particles and dust* means pieces of nut kernels which will pass through a 
5/64 inch round opening. 


(5) *Undersize* means pistachio nuts in the shell which fall through a 
30/64 inch round hole screen.



---

[N] [68 FR 50684, Aug. 22, 2003]




