# § 721.11217   Certain halogenated sodium benzoate salts.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances listed in table 1 of this section are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iv), (a)(3) and (a)(6)(v) and (vi) (particulate), (b)(concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix), (g)(2)(i) through (iii) and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to handle at a processing or use site more than 50 kilograms per day per site in aggregate of the PMN substances for solid formulations that generate a dust. It is a significant new use to use the substances other than as tracers in aqueous solution, in solid blends with polymers, or in a solid proppant bead forms to measure flow in deep oil-bearing or gas-bearing strata.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=300.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




