# § 400.202   Definitions.

For the purpose of these Standards:


(a) *Agency Sales and Service Contract or the Contract* means the written agreement between the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (Corporation) and a private entity (Contractor) for the purpose of selling and servicing Federal Crop Insurance policies and includes, but is not limited to, the following:


(1) The Agency Sales and Service Contract;


(2) Any Appendix to the Agency Sales and Service Contract issued by the Corporation;


(3) The annual approved Plan or Operation; and


(4) Any amendment adopted by the parties.


(b) *BELL 208B (or compatible) modem*—means a modem meeting the standards developed by BELL Laboratories for dial-up, half-duplex, 4800 or 9600 bits per second (bps) transmission of data utilizing 3780 (or 2780) protocol.


(c) *Contract, the* see Agency Sales and Service Contract.


(d) *Contractor's electronic system (system)* means the data processing hardware and software, data communications hardware and software, and printers utilized with the system.


(e) *CPA* means a Certified Public Accountant who is licensed as such by the State in which the CPA practices.


(f) *CPA Audit* means a professional examination conducted by a CPA in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of a Financial Statement on the basis of which the CPA expresses an independent professional opinion respecting the fairness of presentation of the Financial Statement.


(g) *Current Assets* means cash and other assets that are reasonably expected to be realized in cash or sold or consumed during the normal operation cycle of the business or within one year if the operation cycle is shorter than one year.


(h) *Current Liabilities* means those liabilities expected to be satisfied by either the use of assets classified as current in the same balance sheet, or the creation of other current liabilities, or those expected to be satisfied within a relatively short period of time, usually one year.


(i) *Financial Statement* means the documents submitted to the Corporation by a private entity which portray the financial information of the entity. The financial statement must be prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and reflect the financial position in the Statement of Financial Condition or Balance Sheet; and the result of operations in the Statement of Profit and Loss or Income Statement.


(j) *Processing representative* means a person or organization designated by the Contractor to be responsible for data entry and electronic transmission of data contained on crop insurance documents.


(k) *Sales* means new applications and renewals of FCIC policies.


(l) *Suspended Data Notice* means a notification of a temporary stop or delay in the processing of data transmitted to the Corporation by the Contractor because the same is incomplete, non-processable, obsolete, or erroneous.


(m) *3780 protocol*—means the data communications protocol (standard) that is a binary synchronous communications (BSC), International Business Systems (IBM)-defined, byte controlled communications protocol, using control characters and synchronized transmission of binary coded data.




