# ยง 761.9   Entry Control Commanders.

The following commanders are designated Entry Control Commanders with authority to approve or disapprove individual entry authorizations for persons, ships, or aircraft as indicated (Commander Seventeenth Coast Guard District has been designated an Entry Control Commander by the authority of the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard and Commander, Western Area, U.S. Coast Guard);


(a) *Chief of Naval Operations.* Authorization for all persons, ships, or aircraft to enter all defense areas.


(b) *Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet.* Authorization for all persons, ships, or aircraft to enter defense areas in the Atlantic.


(c) *Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet.* Authorization for all persons, ships, or aircraft to enter defense areas in the Pacific.


(d) *Commander U.S. Naval Forces Caribbean.* Authorization for all persons, ships, and aircraft to enter the Guantanamo Bay Naval Defensive Sea Area and the Guantanamo Naval Airspace Reservation. (This authority delegated to Commander U.S. Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay.)


(e) *Commander U.S. Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay.* Authorization for all persons, ships, and aircraft to enter the Guantanamo Bay Naval Defensive Sea Area and the Guantanamo Naval Airspace Reservation.


(f) *Commander Third Fleet.* Authorization for U.S. citizens and U.S. registered private vessels to enter Midway Island, Kingman Reef, Kaneohe Bay Naval Defensive Sea Area, Pearl Harbor Defensive Sea Area and Filipino workers employed by U.S. contractors to enter Wake Island.


(g) *Commander U.S. Naval Forces, Marianas.* Authorization in conjunction with the High Commissioner, for non-U.S. citizens, ships, or aircraft documented under laws other than those of the United States or the Trust Territory to enter those portions of the Trust Territory where entry is not controlled by the Department of the Army or the Defense Nuclear Agency.


(h) *Senior naval commander in defense area.* Emergency authorization for persons, ships, or aircraft in cases of emergency or distress. In all cases the Chief of Naval Operations, and as appropriate, the Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet or the Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet, and other interested commands, shall be informed immediately of the nature of the emergency, and action taken.


(i) *U.S. Coast Guard.* The U.S. Coast Guard regulates the movement of shipping within the Honolulu Harbor under the authority of Executive Orders 10173 and 10289; such shipping is considered to be under U.S. authorized supervision within the meaning of Executive Order 8987. The Commandant, Fourteenth Naval District, as representative of the Secretary of the Navy, retains responsibility for security of the Honolulu Defensive Sea Area, as required by naval interest, and, as such, issues amplifying instructions relating to the Honolulu Defensive Sea Area.



---

[N] [41 FR 28958, July 14, 1976]




