# ยง 401.721   Terminating an agreement with a qualified entity.

(a) *Grounds for terminating a qualified entity agreement.* CMS may terminate an agreement with a qualified entity if CMS determines the qualified entity or its contractor meets any of the following:


(1) Engages in one or more serious violations of the requirements of this subpart.


(2) Fails to completely and accurately report information to CMS or fails to make appropriate corrections in response to confidential reviews by providers and suppliers in a timely manner.


(3) Fails to submit an approvable corrective action plan (CAP) as prescribed by CMS, fails to implement an approved CAP, or fails to demonstrate improved performance after the implementation of a CAP.


(4) Improperly uses or discloses claims information received from CMS in violation of the requirements in this subpart.


(5) Based on its re-application, no longer meets the requirements in this subpart.


(6) Fails to maintain adequate data from other sources in accordance with ยง 401.711(c).


(7) Fails to ensure authorized users comply with their QE DUAs or analysis use agreements.


(b) *Return or destruction of CMS data upon voluntary or involuntary termination from the qualified entity program:*

(1) If CMS terminates a qualified entity's agreement, the qualified entity and its contractors must immediately upon receipt of notification of the termination commence returning or destroying any and all CMS data (and any derivative files). In no instance can this process exceed 30 days.


(2) If a qualified entity voluntarily terminates participation under this subpart, it and its contractors must return to CMS, or destroy, any and all CMS data in its possession within 30 days of notifying CMS of its intent to end its participation.



---

[N] [76 FR 76567, Dec. 7, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 44482, July 7, 2016]




