# ยง 24.25   Emergency variations from requirements.

(a) *General.* The appropriate TTB officer may approve construction, equipment, and methods of operation other than as specified in this part, when in the judgment of such officer an emergency exists, the proposed variations from the specified requirements are necessary, and the proposed variations:


(1) Will afford the security and protection to the revenue intended by the prescribed specifications;


(2) Will not hinder the effective administration of this part; and


(3) Will not be contrary to any provisions of law.


(b) *Application.* The proprietor must submit a written application to the appropriate TTB officer within 24 hours of any temporary approval granted under paragraph (c) of this section, which describes the proposed variation, and sets forth the reasons therefor.


(c) *Temporary approval.* The proprietor who desires to employ an emergency variation from requirements must contact the appropriate TTB officer and request temporary approval until the written application, required by paragraph (b) of this section, is acted upon. The appropriate TTB officer will be a subordinate of the TTB officer designated in paragraph (a) of this section. Where the emergency threatens life or property, the proprietor may take immediate action to correct the situation without prior notification; however, the proprietor must promptly contact the appropriate TTB officer and file with that officer a report concerning the emergency and the action taken to correct the situation.


(d) *Conditions.* The proprietor must, during the period of variation from requirements granted under this section, comply with the terms of the approved application. A failure to comply in good faith with any procedures, conditions, and limitations will automatically terminate the authority for a variation. Upon termination of the variation, the proprietor must fully comply with requirements of regulations for which the variation was authorized. Authority for any variation may be withdrawn whenever in the judgment of the appropriate TTB officer the revenue is jeopardized or the effective administration of this part is hindered by the continuation of the variation.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13684, Mar. 22, 1999]




