# § 94.102   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Crime victim* or *victim of crime* means a person who has suffered physical, sexual, financial, or emotional harm as a result of the commission of a crime.


*Director* means the Director of OVC.


*Direct services* or *services to victims of crime* means those services described in 34 U.S.C. 20103(d)(2), and efforts that—


(1) Respond to the emotional, psychological, or physical needs of crime victims;


(2) Assist victims to stabilize their lives after victimization;


(3) Assist victims to understand and participate in the criminal justice system; or


(4) Restore a measure of security and safety for the victim.


*OVC* means the Office for Victims of Crime, within the United States Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs.


*Project* means the direct services project funded by a grant under this program, unless context indicates otherwise.


*Spousal abuse* includes domestic and intimate partner violence.


*State Administering Agency* or *SAA* is the governmental unit designated by the chief executive of a State to administer grant funds under this program.


*Sub-recipient* means an entity that is eligible to receive grant funds under this program from a State under this subpart.


*Victim of child abuse* means a victim of crime, where such crime involved an act or omission considered to be child abuse under the law of the relevant SAA jurisdiction. In addition, for purposes of this program, victims of child abuse may include, but are not limited to, child victims of: Physical, sexual, or emotional abuse; child pornography-related offenses; neglect; commercial sexual exploitation; bullying; and/or exposure to violence.


*Victim of federal crime* means a victim of an offense in violation of a federal criminal statute or regulation, including, but not limited to, offenses that occur in an area where the federal government has jurisdiction, whether in the United States or abroad, such as Indian reservations, national parks, federal buildings, and military installations.


*VOCA* means the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, Public Law 98-473 (Oct. 12, 1984), as amended.


*VOCA funds* or *VOCA funding* means grant funds (or grant funding) under this program.


*VOCA grant* means the annual grant from OVC to a State under this program.



---

[N] [81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]






