# ยง 220.5   Definitions as used in this part.

*Act* means the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974.


*Application* refers only to a form described in part 217 of this chapter.


*Board* means the Railroad Retirement Board.


*Claimant* means the person for whom an application for an annuity, period of disability or Medicare coverage is filed.


*Eligible* means that a person would meet all the requirements for payment of an annuity but has not yet applied.


*Employee* is defined in part 203 of this title.


*Entitled* means that a person has applied and has proven his or her right to have the annuity, period of disability, or Medicare coverage begin.


*Medical source* refers to both a treating source and a source of record.


*Review physician* means a medical doctor either employed by or under contract to the Board who upon request reviews medical evidence and provides medical advice.


*Social security overall minimum* refers to the provision of the Railroad Retirement Act which guarantees that the total monthly annuities payable to an employee and his or her family will not be less than the total monthly amount which would be payable under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service were credited as employment under the Social Security Act.


*Source of record* means a hospital, clinic or other source that has provided a claimant with medical treatment or evaluation, as well as a physician or psychologist who has treated or evaluated a claimant but does not have an ongoing relationship with him or her.


*Treating source* means the claimant's own physician or psychologist who has provided the claimant with medical treatment or evaluation and who has an ongoing treatment relationship with him or her.




