# § 158.29   The Administrator's decision.

(a) *Authority to impose a PFC.* (1) An application to impose a PFC will be approved in whole or in part only after a determination that—


(i) The amount and duration of the PFC will not result in revenue that exceeds amounts necessary to finance the project; 


(ii) The project will achieve the objectives and criteria set forth in § 158.15 except for those projects approved under § 158.18.


(iii) If a PFC level above $3 is being approved, the project meets the criteria set forth in § 158.17;


(iv) The collection process, including any request by the public agency not to require a class of carriers to collect PFC's, is reasonable, not arbitrary, nondiscriminatory, and otherwise in compliance with the law; 


(v) The public agency has not been found to be in violation of 49 U.S.C. 47524 and 47526; 


(vi) The public agency has not been found to be in violation of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) governing the use of airport revenue; 


(vii) If the public agency has not applied for authority to use PFC revenue, a finding that there are alternative uses of the PFC revenue to ensure that such revenue will be used on approved projects; and 


(viii) If applicable, the public agency has submitted a competition plan in accordance with § 158.19. 


(2) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision on the application. The notification will list the projects and alternative uses that may qualify for PFC financing under § 158.15, and (if a PFC level above $3 is being approved) § 158.17, PFC level, total approved PFC revenue including the amounts approved at $3 and less, $4, and/or $4.50, duration of authority to impose and earliest permissible charge effective date.


(b) *Authority to use PFC revenue on an approved project.* (1) An application for authority to use PFC revenue will be approved in whole or in part only after a determination that—


(i) The amount and duration of the PFC will not result in revenue that exceeds amounts necessary to finance the project; 


(ii) The project will achieve the objectives and criteria set forth in § 158.15 except for those projects approved under § 158.18.


(iii) If a PFC level above $3 is being approved, the project meets the criteria set forth in § 158.17; and 


(iv) All applicable requirements pertaining to the ALP for the airport, airspace studies for the project, and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), have been satisfied. 


(2) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision on the application. The notification will list the approved projects, PFC level, total approved PFC revenue, total approved for collection, including the amounts approved at $3 and less, $4, and/or $4.50, and any limit on the duration of authority to impose a PFC as prescribed under § 158.33.


(3) Approval to use PFC revenue to finance a project shall be construed as approval of that project. 


(c) *Disapproval of application.* (1) If an application is disapproved, the Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision and the reasons for the disapproval. 


(2) A public agency reapplying for approval to impose or use a PFC must comply with §§ 158.23, 158.24, and 158.25.


(d) The Administrator publishes a monthly notice of PFC approvals and disapprovals in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 30867, July 8, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34542, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-3, 70 FR 14936, Mar. 23, 2005; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28848, May 23, 2007]




