# ยง 92.352   Environmental review.

(a) *General.* The environmental effects of each activity carried out with HOME funds must be assessed in accordance with the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321) and the related authorities listed in HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR parts 50 and 58. The applicability of the provisions of 24 CFR part 50 or part 58 is based on the HOME project (new construction, rehabilitation, acquisition) or activity (tenant-based rental assistance) as a whole, not on the type of the cost paid with HOME funds.


(b) *Responsibility for review.* (1) The jurisdiction (e.g., the participating jurisdiction or State recipient) or insular area must assume responsibility for environmental review, decisionmaking, and action for each activity that it carries out with HOME funds, in accordance with the requirements imposed on a recipient under 24 CFR part 58. No funds may be committed to a HOME activity or project before the completion of the environmental review and approval of the request for release of funds and related certification, except as authorized by 24 CFR part 58. 


(2) A State participating jurisdiction must also assume responsibility for approval of requests for release of HOME funds submitted by State recipients. 


(3) HUD will perform the environmental review, in accordance with 24 CFR part 50, for a competitively awarded application for HOME funds submitted to HUD by an entity that is not a jurisdiction. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44678, July 24, 2013]




