# ยง 25.161   Automatic termination of station authorization.

A station authorization shall be automatically terminated in whole or in part without further notice to the licensee upon: 


(a)(1) The failure to meet an applicable milestone specified in ยง 25.164(a) or (b), if no authorized space station is functional in orbit;


(2) The failure to meet an applicable milestone specified in ยง 25.164(b)(1) or (2), if at least one authorized space station is functional in an authorized orbit, which failure will result in the termination of authority for the space stations not in orbit as of the milestone date, but allow for technically identical replacements; or


(3) The failure to meet any other milestone or construction requirement imposed as a condition of authorization. In the case of a space station authorization when at least one authorized space station is functional in orbit, however, such termination will be with respect to only the authorization for any space stations not in orbit as of the milestone date.


(b) The expiration of the license term, unless, in the case of an earth station license, an application for renewal of the license has been filed with the Commission pursuant to ยง 25.121(e) or, in the case of a space station license, an application for extension of the license term has been filed with the Commission; or


(c) The removal or modification of the facilities which renders the station not operational for more than 90 days, unless specific authority is requested. 


(d) The failure to maintain 50 percent of the maximum number of NGSO space stations authorized for service following the 9-year milestone period as functional space stations in authorized orbits, which failure will result in the termination of authority for the space stations not in orbit as of the date of noncompliance, but allow for technically identical replacements.


(e) The failure to provide any SCS on all or some of the SCS authorized frequencies for more than 90 days. In this instance, the authorization will be terminated in whole or in part with respect to the relevant frequencies on which SCS has not been operational for more than 90 days in the United States, unless specific authority is requested.



---

[N] [56 FR 24016, May 28, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 51507, Aug. 27, 2003; 78 FR 8425, Feb. 6, 2013; 79 FR 8320, Feb. 12, 2014; 82 FR 59985, Dec. 18, 2017; 89 FR 34167, Apr. 30, 2024]




