# ยง 703.1   Purpose and applicability.

(a) The purpose of this part is to describe procedures for asserting and maintaining confidentiality claims in accordance with TSCA section 14, and for EPA review of such claims. The procedures described in this part are generally applicable to the submission and EPA review of any TSCA submission, except to the extent that application of the requirements would be inconsistent with TSCA section 14(i). The procedures include requirements concerning the form and manner in which TSCA submissions must be made to meet requirements in TSCA sections 14(b) and (c), to facilitate EPA review of such claims in accordance with TSCA sections 14(f) and (g), and to facilitate disclosure of non-confidential information to the public in accordance with TSCA, FOIA, and their implementing regulations.


(b) This part applies to all information that is reported to or otherwise obtained by EPA pursuant to TSCA or its implementing regulations. This includes information that was first obtained by EPA other than pursuant to the authority of TSCA or its implementing regulations, provided that the following two criteria have been met:


(1) EPA has authority to collect the information under TSCA; and


(2) Either:


(i) Subsequent to its submission the information is being used to satisfy the obligation of a person under TSCA or its implementing regulations; or


(ii) EPA makes use of the information in the course of carrying out its responsibilities under TSCA (e.g., EPA considered such information in its actions under TSCA sections 4, 5, or 6).


(c)(1) This part applies regardless of the following:


(i) Whether the information is intended by its submitter to be used by EPA in implementing TSCA;


(ii) Whether TSCA or an implementing regulation was cited as authority for the request or submission of the information; or


(iii) Whether the information was provided directly to EPA or through some third person.


(2) However, where such information is not protected from disclosure under TSCA Section 14, but the statute under which the information was originally provided to EPA limits disclosure for reasons other than business confidentiality (for example, limited disclosure of pesticide data to multinational pesticide producers under 7 U.S.C. 136h(g)), the disclosure limitation in the statute under which the information was obtained by EPA continues to apply, except where TSCA expressly requires disclosure of that information.


(d) The provisions of 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, apply to this section, as modified by 40 CFR 2.306.






