# § 403.808   Use of transitional assistance funds.

(a) *Individuals determined eligible for transitional assistance in 2004.* Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, an individual who, in calendar year 2004, is determined eligible for transitional assistance under § 403.810(b) is entitled to the following:


(1) $600 in calendar year 2004; and


(2) $600 in calendar year 2005.


(b) *Individuals determined eligible for transitional assistance in 2005.* Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, an individual who, in calendar year 2005, is determined eligible for transitional assistance under § 403.810(b) is entitled to one of the following amounts for calendar year 2005:


(1) If the complete application for the individual's transitional assistance eligibility is received on or after January 1, 2005 and before April 1, 2005, $600.


(2) If the complete application for the individual's transitional assistance eligibility is received on or after April 1, 2005 and before July 1, 2005, $450.


(3) If the complete application for the individual's transitional assistance eligibility is received on or after July 1, 2005 and before October 1, 2005, $300.


(4) If the complete application for the individual's transitional assistance eligibility is received on or after October 1, 2005 and on or before December 31, 2005, $150.


(c) *Payment of enrollment fee.* An individual found eligible for transitional assistance is entitled to have CMS pay the annual enrollment fee to the endorsed sponsor on his or her behalf.


(d) *Conditions on use of transitional assistance.* A transitional assistance enrollee may access the transitional assistance described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section only if the following conditions are met:


(1) Except as provided in § 403.814(b)(3)(v), the transitional assistance funds are applied toward the cost of a covered discount card drug obtained under the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program;


(2) The individual pays a coinsurance amount in accordance with § 403.808(e);


(3) The individual purchases the covered discount card drug on or after the individual's transitional assistance effective date; and


(4) The individual is enrolled in the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program on the date the individual's claim for the covered discount card drug is adjudicated.


(e) *Coinsurance.* If sufficient transitional assistance funds are available, transitional assistance funds must be expended in accordance with the following:


(1) For beneficiaries with incomes at or below 100 percent of the poverty line, 95 percent of the price of a covered discount card drug must be paid from the available transitional assistance funds.


(2) For beneficiaries with incomes greater than 100 percent but at or below 135 percent of the poverty line, 90 percent of the price of a covered discount card drug must be paid from the available transitional assistance funds.


(f) *Rollover.* An individual with transitional assistance retains access to any balance of transitional assistance not expended in a calendar year during the next calendar year, up to and including the transition period, if the individual—


(1) Remains in his or her current endorsed discount card program;


(2) Elects a new endorsed program in an Annual Coordinated Election Period; or


(3) Is eligible for a Special Election Period under § 403.811(b)(2) and elects a new endorsed discount card program during such Special Election Period.




