# ยง 1724.3   Definitions.

Terms used in this part have the meanings set forth in ยง 1710.2 of this chapter. References to specific RUS forms and other RUS documents, and to specific sections or lines of such forms and documents, shall include the corresponding forms, documents, sections and lines in any subsequent revisions of these forms and documents. In addition to the terms defined in ยง 1710.2 of this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings for the purposes of this part:


*Architect* means a registered or licensed person employed by the borrower to provide architectural services for a project and duly authorized assistants and representatives.


*Engineer* means a registered or licensed person, who may be a staff employee or an outside consultant, to provide engineering services and duly authorized assistants and representatives.


*Force account construction* means construction performed by the borrower's employees.


*GPO* means Government Printing Office.


*NESC* means the National Electrical Safety Code.


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


*Repowering* means replacement of the steam generator or the prime mover or both at a generating plant.


*RUS* means Rural Utilities Service.


*RUS approval* means written approval by the Administrator or a representative with delegated authority. RUS approval must be in writing, except in emergency situations where RUS approval may be given orally followed by a confirming letter.


*RUS financed* means financed or funded wholly or in part by a loan made or guaranteed by RUS, including concurrent supplemental loans required by ยง 1710.110 of this chapter, loans to reimburse funds already expended by the borrower, and loans to replace interim financing.



---

[N] [63 FR 35314, June 29, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 58284, Oct. 30, 1998]




