# ยง 1208.49   Administrative offset against amounts payable from Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

(a) *Request for administrative offset.* Unless otherwise prohibited by law, FHFA may request that monies that are due and payable to a debtor from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) be offset administratively in reasonable amounts in order to collect in one full payment or in a minimal number of payments debt owed to FHFA by the debtor. Such requests shall be made to the appropriate officials of OPM in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by FHFA or OPM.


(b) *Contents of certification.* When making a request for administrative offset under paragraph (a) of this section, FHFA shall provide OPM with a written certification that:


(1) The debtor owes FHFA a debt, including the amount of the debt;


(2) FHFA has complied with the applicable statutes, regulations, and procedures of OPM; and


(3) FHFA has complied with the requirements of the FCCS, including any required hearing or review.


(c) If FHFA decides to request administrative offset under paragraph (a) of this section, it shall make the request as soon as practicable after completion of the applicable procedures. This will satisfy any requirement that administrative offset be initiated prior to the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. At such time as the debtor makes a claim for payments from the Fund, if at least one year has elapsed since the administrative offset request was originally made, the debtor shall be permitted to offer a satisfactory repayment plan in lieu of administrative offset if he or she establishes that changed financial circumstances would render the administrative offset unjust.


(d) If FHFA collects part or all of the debt by other means before deductions are made or completed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, FHFA shall act promptly to modify or terminate its request for administrative offset under paragraph (a) of this section.




