# § 414.222   Items requiring frequent and substantial servicing.

(a) *Definition.* Items requiring frequent and substantial servicing in order to avoid risk to the beneficiary's health are the following: 


(1) Ventilators (except those that are either continuous airway pressure devices or respiratory assist devices with bi-level pressure capability with or without a backup rate, previously referred to as “intermittent assist devices with continuous airway pressure devices”).


(2) Continuous and intermittent positive pressure breathing machines. 


(3) Continuous passive motion machines. 


(4) Other items specified in CMS program instructions. 


(5) Other items identified by the carrier. 


(b) *Payment rule.* Rental payments for items requiring frequent and substantial servicing are made on a monthly basis, and continue until medical necessity ends.


(c) *Fee schedule amount for 1989 and 1990.* The fee schedule amount for items requiring frequent and substantial servicing is the local payment amount determined as follows:


(1) The carrier determines the average reasonable charge for rental of items requiring frequent and substantial servicing that were furnished during the period July 1, 1986 through June 30, 1987 based on the mean of the carrier's allowed charges for the item.


(2) The carrier adjusts the amounts determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by the change in the level of the CPI-U for the 6-month period ending December 1987.


(d) *Updating the fee schedule amounts for years after 1990.* For years after 1990, the fee schedules are determined using the methodology contained in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of § 414.220.


(e) *Transition to other payment classes.* For purposes of calculating the 15-month rental period, beginning January 1, 1994, if an item has been paid for under the frequent and substantial servicing class and is subsequently paid for under another payment class, the rental period begins with the first month of continuous rental, even if that period began before January 1, 1994. For example, if the rental period began on July 1, 1993, the carrier must use this date as beginning the first month of rental. Likewise, for purposes of calculating the 10-month purchase option, the rental period begins with the first month of continuous rental without regard to when that period started. For example, if the rental period began in August 1993, the 10-month purchase option must be offered to the beneficiary in May 1994, the tenth month of continuous rental.


(f) *Multi-function ventilators*—(1) Definition. For the purpose of this paragraph (f), a multi-function ventilator is a ventilator as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that also performs medically necessary functions for the patient at the same time that would otherwise be performed by one or more different items classified under § 414.220, § 414.226, or § 414.229.


(2) *Payment rule.* Effective for dates of service on or after January 1, 2019, the monthly rental fee schedule amount for a multi-function ventilator described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section is equal to the monthly rental fee schedule amount for the ventilator established in paragraph (c) and paragraph (d) of this section plus the average of the lowest monthly cost for one additional function determined under paragraph (f)(3) of this section and the monthly cost of all additional functions determined under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, increased by the annual covered item updates of section 1834(a)(14) of the Act.


(3) *Monthly cost for additional functions.* (i) For functions performed by items classified under this section prior to 1994, the monthly cost is equal to the monthly rental fee schedule amount established in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section increased by the covered item update of section 1834(a)(14) of the Act.


(ii) For functions performed by items classified under § 414.220, the monthly cost is equal to the fee schedule amount for purchased equipment established in § 414.220(c), (d), (e), and (f), adjusted in accordance with § 414.210(g), divided by 60 months or total number of months of the reasonable useful lifetime of the equipment.


(iii) For functions performed by items classified under § 414.226, the monthly cost is equal to the monthly payment amount established in § 414.226(e) and (f), adjusted in accordance with § 414.210(g), multiplied by 36 and divided by 60 months or total number of months of the reasonable useful lifetime of the oxygen equipment.


(iv) For functions performed by items classified under § 414.229, the monthly cost is equal to the purchase price established in § 414.229(c), adjusted in accordance with § 414.210(g), divided by 60 months or total number of months of the reasonable useful lifetime of the equipment.



---

[N] [57 FR 57690, Dec. 7, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 35497, July 10, 1995; 71 FR 4525, Jan. 27, 2006; 83 FR 57071, Nov. 14, 2018]




