# § 27.204   Distinctive liquor bottles.

(a) *Application.* Liquor bottles of distinctive shape or design, including bottles of less than 200 ml. capacity, may be imported by an importer (filled bottles) or a bottler (empty bottles). For filled bottles, the importer shall submit TTB Form 5100.31 for approval prior to importation of such bottles into the United States. For empty bottles, the bottler shall obtain approval from the appropriate TTB officer on TTB Form 5100.31 prior to using the bottles. The importer or bottler, as applicable, shall certify as to the total capacity of a representative sample bottle before closure (expressed in milliliters) on each copy of the form. In addition, the applicant shall affix a readily legible photograph (both front and back of the bottle to the front of each copy of TTB Form 5100.31, along with the label(s) to be used on the bottle. The applicant shall not submit an actual bottle or an authentic model unless specifically requested to do so.


(b) *Approval.* (1) Properly submitted TTB Forms 5100.31 to import distinctive liquor bottles (filled), or, properly submitted TTB Forms 5100.31 to use distinctive liquor bottles (empty) which have been imported, shall be approved provided such bottles are found by the appropriate TTB officer to—


(i) Meet the requirements of 27 CFR part 5;


(ii) Be distinctive;


(iii) Be suitable for their intended purpose;


(iv) Not jeopardize the revenue; and


(v) Not be deceptive to the consumer.


(2) The applicant shall keep a copy of the approved TTB Form 5100.31, including an approved photograph (both front and back) of the distinctive liquor bottle, on file at their premises. If TTB Form 5100.31 is disapproved, the applicant shall be notified of the appropriate TTB officer's decision decision and the reasons therefor. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-114, 47 FR 43951, Oct. 5, 1982, as amended by T.D. ATF-242, 51 FR 39526, Oct. 29, 1986; T.D. ATF-474, 67 FR 11232, Mar. 13, 2002; T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94208, Dec. 22, 2016; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87944, Nov. 6, 2024]




