# ยง 13.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, these terms shall have the following meaning:


(a) The term *Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Enforcement and Operations).


(b) The term *extraordinary protective need* means a need for protection requiring measurable reinforcements of police personnel or equipment, or both, significantly beyond the ordinary deployment of the State or local government, arising out of actual or potential violence related to: (1) Confrontations between nationalist or other groups, (2) threats or acts of violence by terrorist or other groups, (3) a specific diplomatic event or visit, or (4) a specific international event.


(c) The term *foreign diplomatic mission* means a mission (including foreign consular offices) of a foreign country located in the United States.


(d) The term *full time officers* means permanent officers whose duties as foreign diplomatic officers occupy their full time.


(e) The term *international organization* means those international organizations designated by Presidential Executive Order as being entitled to the privileges, immunities, and exemptions accorded under the International Organization Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288).


(f) The term *metropolitan area* means a city in the United States (other than the District of Columbia) and those areas contiguous to it.


(g) The term *observer mission* means a mission invited to participate in the work of an international organization by that organization. The invitation to participate shall be extended by the international organization pursuant to the same internal rules of the international organization as are applicable to any permanent mission.


(h) The term *permanent mission* means a fixed continuing mission staffed by full time officers and maintained by a member state of an international organization.


(i) The term *temporary domicile* means a domicile of limited duration of a visiting foreign dignitary or officer in connection with a visit to a permanent or observer mission to an international organization in a metropolitan area.



---

[N] [41 FR 55179, Dec. 17, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 30621, May 9, 1980]




