# § 93.53   Description of area.

The Anchorage, Alaska, Terminal Area is designated as that airspace extending upward from the surface to the upper limit of each of the segments described in § 93.55. It is bounded by a line beginning at Point MacKenzie, extending westerly along the bank of Knik Arm to a point intersecting the 350° bearing from the Anchorage International ATCT; thence north to intercept the 5.2-mile arc centered on the geographical center of Anchorage, Alaska, ATCT; thence counterclockwise along that arc to its intersection with a line bearing 180° from the intersection of the new Seward Highway and International Airport Road; thence due north to O'Malley Road; thence east along O'Malley Road to its intersection with Lake Otis Parkway; thence northerly along Lake Otis Parkway to its intersection with Abbott Road; thence east along Abbott Road to its intersection with Abbott Loop Road; thence north to its intersection with Tudor Road; thence easterly along Tudor Road to its intersection with Muldoon Road; thence northerly along Muldoon Road to the intersection of the Glenn Highway; thence north and east along the Glenn Highway to Ski Bowl Road; thence southeast along the Ski Bowl Road to a point one-half mile south of the Glenn Highway; thence north and east one-half mile south of and parallel to the Glenn Highway to its intersection with a line one-half mile east of and parallel to the Bryant Airport Runway 16/34 extended centerline; thence northeast along a line one-half mile east of and parallel to Bryant Airport Runway 16/34 extended centerline to lat. 61°17′13″ N., long. 149°37′35″ W.; thence west along lat. 61°17′13″ N., to long. 149°43′08″ W.; thence north along long. 149°43′08″ W., to lat. 61°17′30″ N.; thence to lat. 61°17′58″ N., long 149°44′08″ W.; thence to lat. 61°19′10″ N., long. 149°46′44″ W.; thence north along long. 149°46′44″ W., to intercept the 4.7-mile radius arc centered on Elmendorf Air Force Base (AFB), Alaska; thence counterclockwise along the 4.7-mile radius arc to its intersection with the west bank of Knik Arm; thence southerly along the west bank of Knik Arm to the point of beginning.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 29029, 64 FR 14976, Mar. 29, 1999; Amdt. 93-77, 64 FR 17439, Apr. 9, 1999]




