# ยง 89.43   Review within the Department.

(a) *Notification by debtor.* A debtor who receives a Notice of Intent may present, for 60 days from the date of the Notice of Intent, information that all or part of the debt is not past-due or legally enforceable. (However, this does not extend the regulatory period for submitting written statements or for requesting an administrative hearing on the merits of an alleged violation, nor does it extend the period to appeal an assessed civil penalty.) To comply with this procedure, the debtor must:


(1) Send a written request for a review of the information to the address provided in the notice.


(2) State in the request the amount disputed and the reasons why the debtor believes that the debt is not past-due or legally enforceable.


(3) Include in the request any documents which the debtor wishes to be considered or state that additional information will be submitted within the remainder of the 60 day period.


(b) *Submission of information.* The debtor may submit information showing that all or part of the debt is not past-due or not legally enforceable along with the notification required by paragraph (a) of this section. Failure to submit the information within the remainder of the 60 day period will be interpreted as there is no additional information for consideration.


(c) *Review of the information.* The Department considers all available information related to the issue of whether the debt is past-due and the issue of whether the debt is legally enforceable. After a decision has been reached, the Department notifies the debtor whether the Department has sustained amended, or cancelled its determination that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable.




