# § 602.10   Additional requirements.

(a) A recipient performing research or related activities involving the use of human subjects must comply with DOE regulations in 10 CFR part 745, “Protection of Human Subjects,” and any additional provisions that may be included in the special terms and conditions of an award. 


(b) A recipient performing research involving recombinant DNA molecules and/or organisms and viruses containing recombinant DNA molecules shall comply with the National Institutes of Health “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules” (51 FR 16958, May 7, 1986), or such later revision of those guidelines, as may be published in the _Federal Register._ (The guidelines are available from the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room BBB, Bethesda, MD 20892, or from the Office of Domestic and International Health Studies, EHSS-13, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585.


(c) A recipient performing research on warm-blooded animals shall comply with the Federal Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131 *et seq.*), and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Secretary of Agriculture at 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter A, pertaining to the care, handling, and treatment of warm-blooded animals held or used for research, teaching, or other activities supported by Federal awards. The recipient shall comply with the guidelines described in the Department of Health and Human Services Publication No. [NIH] 86-23, “Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals,” or succeeding revised editions. (This guide is available from the Office for Protection from Research Risks, Office of the Director, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B09, Bethesda, MD 20892, or from the Office of Domestic and International Health Studies, EHSS-13, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585.



---

[N] [60 FR 5841, Jan. 31, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 68730, Nov. 28, 2006; 80 FR 5007, Jan. 30, 2015; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]




