# § 515.572   Provision of travel, carrier, other transportation-related, and remittance forwarding services.

(a) *General licenses*—(1) *Authorization to provide travel services.* Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide travel services in connection with travel-related transactions involving Cuba authorized pursuant to this part. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210, if the terms of the applicable general or specific license authorizing the travel expressly exclude such a transaction.


(2) *Authorization to provide carrier services.* (i) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide carrier services to, from, or within Cuba in connection with travel or transportation, directly or indirectly, between the United States and Cuba of persons, baggage, or cargo authorized pursuant to this part.


(ii) The entry into blocked space, code-sharing, or leasing arrangements to facilitate the provision of carrier services by air authorized pursuant to section 515.572(a)(2) is authorized, including the entry into such arrangements with a national of Cuba.


(3) *Authorization to provide remittance forwarding services.* Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, including U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities and U.S.-registered money transmitters, are authorized to provide services in connection with the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances authorized pursuant to this part. Nothing in this paragraph (a)(3) authorizes a transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the _Federal Register_ and maintained by the State Department and available at *https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.*

(4) *Authorization to provide lodging services.* Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are providing carrier services by vessel authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section are authorized to provide lodging services onboard such vessels to persons authorized to travel to or from Cuba pursuant to this part during the period of time the vessel is traveling to, from, or within Cuba, including when docked at a port in Cuba.


(5) *Authorization to provide civil aviation safety-related services.* Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide civil aviation safety-related services to Cuba and Cuban nationals, wherever located, to ensure the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of commercial aircraft.


(b) *Required reports and recordkeeping.* (1) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing services authorized pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section must retain for at least five years from the date of the transaction a certification from each customer indicating the section of this part that authorizes the person to travel or send remittances to Cuba. In the case of a customer traveling under a specific license, the specific license number or a copy of the license must be maintained on file with the person subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing services authorized pursuant to this section.


(2) The names and addresses of individual travelers or remitters, the number and amount of each remittance, and the name and address of each recipient, as applicable, must be retained on file with all other information required by § 501.601 of this chapter. These records must be furnished to the Office of Foreign Assets Control on demand pursuant to § 501.602 of this chapter.


(c) *Specific licenses.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the provision of travel, carrier, or remittance-forwarding services other than those authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 2299, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56923, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 4586, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 84 FR 25993, June 5, 2019; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020; 87 FR 35091, June 9, 2022]




