# ยง 1215.50   Budget and expenses.

(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. 


(b) Each budget shall include: 


(1) A rate of assessment for such fiscal year calculated, subject to ยง 1215.51(b), to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section; 


(2) A statement of the objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;


(3) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year;


(4) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and 


(5) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year. 


(c) In budgeting plans and projects of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information, the Board shall expend assessment and contribution funds on: 


(1) Plans and projects for popcorn marketed in the United States or Canada in proportion to the amount of assessments projected to be collected on domestically marketed popcorn (including Canada); and 


(2) Plans and projects for exported popcorn in proportion to the amount of assessments projected to be collected on exported popcorn (excluding Canada). 


(d) The Board is authorized to incur such reasonable expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board. 


(e) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects approved by the Secretary. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use. The Board may also receive funds provided through the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture for foreign marketing activities. 


(f) As stated in section 75(f)(4)(A)(ii) of the Act, the Board shall reimburse the Secretary, from funds received by the Board, for costs incurred by the Secretary in implementing and administering this subpart: *Provided,* That the costs incurred by the Secretary to be reimbursed by the Board, excluding legal costs to defend and enforce the order, shall not exceed 15 percent of the projected annual revenues of the Board. 


(g) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established, except that the funds in this reserve shall not exceed approximately one fiscal year's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this subpart. 


(h) With the approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board during its first year of operation only. 




