# ยง 234.4   Objectives and applicability.

(a) *Introduction.* The goal of the Department of the Army's ASPs is to ensure that Army Civil Works consistently applies a common framework for analyzing a diverse range of water resources development projects, programs, activities, and related actions involving Federal investments. The ASPs will advance transparency and consistency of the Corps' Federal investments in water resources. The intention of the ASPs is to outline the steps to apply the PR&G to Corps water resources investments, including a determination of the applicability of the PR&G in the context of the Corps' missions and authorities, to provide a common framework for evaluation of investment alternatives, and to ensure that the Corps adequately addresses the Guiding Principles identified in the P&R.


(b) *Objectives for Federal water resources investments.* Section 2031 of WRDA 2007 (Pub. L. 110-114; 42 U.S.C. 1962-3) specifies that Federal water resources investments shall reflect national priorities, encourage economic development, and protect the environment. The Corps shall accomplish this Federal Objective of water resources planning policy by:


(1) Seeking to maximize sustainable economic development;


(2) Seeking to avoid the unwise use of floodplains and flood-prone areas and minimizing adverse impacts and vulnerabilities in any case in which a floodplain or flood-prone area must be used; and


(3) Protecting and restoring the functions of natural systems and mitigating any unavoidable damage to natural systems.


(c) *Net public benefits.* The Corps shall strive to maximize net public benefits to society. Public benefits encompass economic, environmental, and social goals, include monetized and un-monetized effects, and allow for the consideration of both quantified and unquantified effects.


(d) *Applicability.* (1) The objectives in paragraph (b) of this section shall be embodied in all new Army Civil Works' water resources investments, which include both structural and nonstructural approaches to water resources problems. The PR&G analysis under the Corps' ASPs described in this part is generally required for feasibility studies; general re-evaluation reports; major rehabilitation reports; studies performed under the continuing authorities program of the Corps; studies to support significant changes to project operations including any such changes that warrant preparation of an environmental impact statement, re-allocation studies, and studies conducted under section 216 of the Flood Control Act of 1970 (33 U.S.C. 549a); and any other project or program not otherwise excluded under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) The PR&G is not intended to apply to all Federal actions. The following types of Federal investments are identified as excluded from the requirements of this part:


(i) Regulatory actions, such as the issuance of permits associated with section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344).


(ii) Real estate actions.


(iii) Planning Assistance to States program.


(iv) Flood Plain Management Services program.


(v) Section 14 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 (33 U.S.C. 408) program.


(vi) Public Law 84-99 program.


(vii) Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Program.


(viii) Environmental Infrastructure projects.


(ix) Land management plans.


(x) Operation and maintenance activities that are carried out in a manner consistent with the existing approved operation and maintenance manual or plan for an authorized project. This exclusion does not apply to significant proposed changes to an existing O&M plan including proposals that may be controversial, significant changes to the existing plan to meet new goals, and other significant changes that may warrant a further analysis of the options for operation and maintenance.


(xi) International and Interagency Services and Support for Others actions.


(xii) Research or monitoring activities.


(xiii) Emergency actions.


(xiv) Projects, programs, or plans that fall below the thresholds identified in table 1 to ยง 234.5(c). These excluded actions generally occur when investments are routine and have inconsequential effects on water resources.


(xv) Additional programs, plans, or projects which the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works determines do not require analysis pursuant to ยง 234.3.






