# ยง 15.15   Demand for testimony or production of documents in matters in which the United States is a party.

If a demand is received pertaining to a legal matter in which the United States but not the Department is a named party, or where a party other than the Department is represented by the Department of Justice, the following rules apply.


(a) *Demand not from the United States.* For demands for documents from, or testimony of an employee of the Department, from an entity other than the United States pursuant to a legal proceeding in which the United States is a party, the demand must be in writing and signed, delivered in accordance with ยง 15.13(b), setting forth the information required in ยง 15.14(a), and copied to the attorneys of record representing or acting under the authority of the United States in the legal proceeding. Upon receipt of the demand, the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel shall promptly contact the appropriate Department of Justice office to coordinate any response in accordance with applicable Federal or state rules of civil procedure governing discovery matters.


(b) *Demand from the United States.* When a demand for documents from, testimony of, or consultation with an employee of the Department comes from an attorney representing or acting under the authority of the United States concerning a legal proceeding in which the United States is a party, every such demand should be accompanied by a statement setting forth the legal proceeding, the forum, the United States' interest in the legal proceeding, and the relevance and use of the requested documents or testimony. The purpose of the requirement in this paragraph (b) is to assist the General Counsel or the appropriate agency counsel in making all necessary arrangements to facilitate the demand on behalf of the United States. Where appropriate, the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel may require reimbursement to the Department of the expenses associated with a Department employee giving testimony or providing consultation on behalf of the United States.


(c) *Expert or opinion witness.* In a legal proceeding in which the United States is a party, a current Department employee may not testify as an expert or opinion witness for any other party other than the United States. However, a former employee may provide opinion or expert testimony for a party other than the United States if:


(1) The testimony does not involve facts, information, or documents about a particular matter that were acquired by the former employee during the performance of their official duties as an employee of the United States; and


(2) The involvement of the former employee in the proceeding as a witness complies with applicable post-employment conflict of interest laws. *See* 18 U.S.C. 207 and 5 CFR part 2641. A former employee offering expert or opinion testimony or consulting, and those seeking such testimony from a former employee, shall confer with the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel to ascertain if the prospective expert or opinion testimony or consulting is consistent with this subpart.



---

[N] [87 FR 162, Jan. 4, 2022]






