# ยง 60.291   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part, unless otherwise required by the context. 


*All-electric melter* means a glass melting furnace in which all the heat required for melting is provided by electric current from electrodes submerged in the molten glass, although some fossil fuel may be charged to the furnace as raw material only. 


*Borosilicate recipe* means glass product composition of the following approximate ranges of weight proportions: 60 to 80 percent silicon dioxide, 4 to 10 percent total R_2_O (e.g., Na_2_O and K_2_O), 5 to 35 percent boric oxides, and 0 to 13 percent other oxides. 


*Container glass* means glass made of soda-lime recipe, clear or colored, which is pressed and/or blown into bottles, jars, ampoules, and other products listed in Standard Industrial Classification 3221 (SIC 3221). 


*Experimental furnace* means a glass melting furnace with the sole purpose of operating to evaluate glass melting processes, technologies, or glass products. An experimental furnace does not produce glass that is sold (except for further research and development purposes) or that is used as a raw material for nonexperimental furnaces. 


*Flat glass* means glass made of soda-lime recipe and produced into continuous flat sheets and other products listed in SIC 3211. 


*Flow channels* means appendages used for conditioning and distributing molten glass to forming apparatuses and are a permanently separate source of emissions such that no mixing of emissions occurs with emissions from the melter cooling system prior to their being vented to the atmosphere. 


*Glass melting furnace* means a unit comprising a refractory vessel in which raw materials are charged, melted at high temperature, refined, and conditioned to produce molten glass. The unit includes foundations, superstructure and retaining walls, raw material charger systems, heat exchangers, melter cooling system, exhaust system, refractory brick work, fuel supply and electrical boosting equipment, integral control systems and instrumentation, and appendages for conditioning and distributing molten glass to forming apparatuses. The forming apparatuses, including the float bath used in flat glass manufacturing and flow channels in wool fiberglass and textile fiberglass manufacturing, are not considered part of the glass melting furnace.


*Glass produced* means the weight of the glass pulled from the glass melting furnace. 


*Hand glass melting furnace* means a glass melting furnace where the molten glass is removed from the furnace by a glassworker using a blowpipe or a pontil. 


*Lead recipe* means glass product composition of the following ranges of weight proportions: 50 to 60 percent silicon dioxide, 18 to 35 percent lead oxides, 5 to 20 percent total R_2_O (e.g., Na_2_O and K_2_O), 0 to 8 percent total R_2_O_3_ (e.g., Al_2_O_3_), 0 to 15 percent total RO (e.g., CaO, MgO), other than lead oxide, and 5 to 10 percent other oxides.


*Pressed and blown glass* means glass which is pressed, blown, or both, including textile fiberglass, noncontinuous flat glass, noncontainer glass, and other products listed in SIC 3229. It is separated into: 


(1) Glass of borosilicate recipe. 


(2) Glass of soda-lime and lead recipes. 


(3) Glass of opal, fluoride, and other recipes. 


*Rebricking* means cold replacement of damaged or worn refractory parts of the glass melting furnace. Rebricking includes replacement of the refractories comprising the bottom, sidewalls, or roof of the melting vessel; replacement of refractory work in the heat exchanger; replacement of refractory portions of the glass conditioning and distribution system. 


*Soda-lime recipe* means glass product composition of the following ranges of weight proportions: 60 to 75 percent silicon dioxide, 10 to 17 percent total R_2_O (e.g., Na_2_O and K_2_O), 8 to 20 percent total RO but not to include any PbO (e.g., CaO, and MgO), 0 to 8 percent total R_2_O_3_ (e.g., Al_2_O_3_), and 1 to 5 percent other oxides.


*Textile fiberglass* means fibrous glass in the form of continuous strands having uniform thickness. 


*With modified-processes* means using any technique designed to minimize emissions without the use of add-on pollution controls.


*Wool fiberglass* means fibrous glass of random texture, including fiberglass insulation, and other products listed in SIC 3296. 



---

[N] [45 FR 66751, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 41035, Oct. 19, 1984; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]




