# § 165.805   Security Zones; Calcasieu River and Ship Channel, Louisiana.

(a) *Location.* (1) The following areas are designated as fixed security zones (all coordinates are based upon North American Datum of 1983 [NAD 83]):


(i) *Trunkline LNG basin.* All waters encompassed by a line connecting the following points, beginning at 30°06′36″ N, 93°17′36″ W, south to a point 30°06′33″ N, 93°17′36″ W, east to a point 30°06′30″ N, 93°17′02″ W, north to a point 30°06′33″ N, 93°17′01″ W, then tracing the shoreline along the water's edge to the point of origin.


(ii) *Cameron LNG basin.* All waters encompassed by a line connecting the following points, beginning at 30°02′33″ N, 093°19′53″ W, east to a point at 30°02′34″ N, 093°19′50″ W, south to a point at 30°02′10″ N, 093°19′52″ W and west to a point at 30°02′10″ N, 93°19′59″ W, then tracing the shoreline along the water's edge to the point of origin.


(iii) *PPG Industries basin.* All waters encompassed by a line connecting the following points: Beginning at 30°13′29″ N, 93°16′34″ W, southwest to a point at 30°13′11″ N, 93°16′51″ W, then proceeding southerly following 100 feet off the shoreline to a point at 30°12′57.2″ N, 93°16′53.2″ W, then east to a point at 30°12′57.2″ N, 93°16′50.6″ W then southerly to a point at 30°12′47.7″ N, 93°16′50.3″ W then west to the shoreline and then following along the water's edge to the point of origin.


(2) The following areas are moving security zones: All waters within the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur zone commencing at U.S. territorial waters and extending channel edge to channel edge on the Calcasieu Channel and shoreline to shoreline on the Calcasieu River, 2 miles ahead and 1 mile astern of certain designated vessels while in transit. Meeting, crossing or overtaking situations are not permitted within the security zone unless specifically authorized by the Captain of the Port. Coast Guard patrol assets will be on scene with flashing blue lights energized when the moving security zones are in effect.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) Entry into or remaining in a fixed zone described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is prohibited for all vessels except:


(i) Commercial vessels operating at waterfront facilities within these zones;


(ii) Commercial vessels transiting directly to or from waterfront facilities within these zones;


(iii) Vessels providing direct operational or logistical support to commercial vessels within these zones;


(iv) Vessels operated by the appropriate port authority or by facilities located within these zones; and


(v) Vessels operated by federal, state, county, or municipal agencies.


(2) Entry into or remaining in moving zones described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is prohibited for all vessels except:


(i) Moored vessels or vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area. A moored or an anchored vessel in a security zone described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must remain moored or anchored unless it obtains permission from the Captain of the Port to do otherwise;


(ii) Commercial vessels operating at waterfront facilities located within the zone;


(iii) Vessels providing direct operational support to commercial vessels within a moving security zone;


(iv) Vessels operated by federal, state, county, or municipal agencies.


(3) Other persons or vessels requiring entry into security zones described in this section must request permission from the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur or designated representatives.


(4) To request permission as required by these regulations, contact Marine Safety Unit Lake Charles at (337) 491-7800 or the on scene patrol vessel.


(5) All persons and vessels within a security zone described in this section must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur, designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel or other designated representatives. On-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. Designated representatives include federal, state, local and municipal law enforcement agencies.


(c) *Informational broadcasts:* The Captain of the Port, Port Arthur will inform the public when moving security zones have been established around vessels via Broadcast Notices to Mariners and written notice provided by escort vessels.



---

[N] [USCG-2009-0317, 75 FR 18757, Apr. 13, 2010]




