# ยง 73.74   Requirement for advance notice and protection of import shipments of nuclear material from countries that are not party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material.

(a) A licensee authorized to import special nuclear material of low strategic significance from a country not a party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (*i.e.*, not listed in appendix F of this part) shall: 




(1) Notify in writing the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by email (preferred method) to *AdvanceNotifications.Resource@nrc.gov* or by using any appropriate method listed in ยง 73.4;




(2) Assure that the notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipper's facility; and 


(3) Include the following information in the notification: 


(i) The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s); 


(ii) A physical description of the shipment (the isotopes, enrichment, quantity, etc.); 


(iii) A listing of mode(s) of shipment, transfer points, and routes to be used;


(iv) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country along the route is scheduled to be entered; and 


(v) The estimated time and date of arrival of the shipment at the destination. 


(b) A licensee who needs to amend a written advance notification required by paragraph (a) of this section may notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers listed in appendix A to this part. 


(c) A licensee authorized to import from a country not a party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (*i.e.*, not listed in appendix F of this part) a formula quantity of special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, special nuclear material of low strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel shall assure that during transport outside the United States the shipment will be protected in accordance with Annex I to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (see appendix E of this part). 



---

[N] [52 FR 9654, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4112, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 86 FR 67843, Nov. 30, 2021]




