# ยง 344.6   How do I redeem a Time Deposit security before maturity?

(a) *What is the minimum time a security must be held?* (1) Zero percent certificates of indebtedness of 16 to 29 days. A zero percent certificate of indebtedness of 16 to 29 days can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 15 days after the issue date.


(2) *Certificates of indebtedness of 30 days or more.* A certificate of indebtedness of 30 days or more can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 25 days after the issue date.


(3) *Notes or bonds.* A note or bond can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 30 days after the issue date. Any request for redemption received within 14 days of the issue date will be rejected.


(b) *Can I request partial redemption of a security balance?* You may request partial redemptions in any whole dollar amount; however, a security balance of less than $1,000 must be redeemed in total.


(c) *Do I have to submit a request for early redemption?* Yes. An official authorized to redeem the securities before maturity must submit an electronic request in SLGSafe. The request must show the Taxpayer Identification Number of the issuer, the security number, and the dollar amount of the securities to be redeemed. Upon submission of a request for redemption before maturity of a security subscribed for on or after August 15, 2005, the request must include a yield certification under ยง 344.2(e)(2)(ii). Fiscal Service must receive the request no less than 14 days and no more than 60 days before the requested redemption date. You cannot submit a request for early redemption for a security which has not yet been issued and you cannot cancel a request once it has been submitted.


(d) *How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions on or after October 28, 1996?* For securities subscribed for on or after October 28, 1996, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:


(1) *Interest.* If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, Treasury pays interest for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.


(2) *Redemption value.* The remaining interest and principal payments are discounted by the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining term to maturity of the security redeemed. This may result in a premium or discount to the issuer depending on whether the current Treasury borrowing rate is unchanged, lower, or higher than the stated interest rate of the early-redeemed SLGS securities. There is no market charge for the redemption of zero interest Time Deposit securities subscribed for on or after October 28, 1996. Redemption proceeds in the case of a zero-interest security are a return of the principal invested. The formulas for calculating the redemption value under this paragraph, including examples of the determination of premiums and discounts, are set forth in appendix B of this part.


(e) *How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions from September 1, 1989, through October 27, 1996?* For securities subscribed for from September 1, 1989, through October 27, 1996, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:


(1) *Interest.* If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, Treasury pays interest for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.


(2) *Market charge.* An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds if the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining period to original maturity exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. The amount shall be the present value of the future increased borrowing cost to the Treasury. The annual increased borrowing cost for each interest period is determined by multiplying the principal by the difference between the two rates. For notes and bonds, the increased borrowing cost for each remaining interest period to original maturity is determined by dividing the annual cost by two. Present value is determined by using the current Treasury borrowing rate as the discount factor. When you request a redemption date that is less than thirty days before the original maturity date, we will apply the rate of a one month security as listed on the SLGS rate table issued on the day you make a redemption request. The market charge under this paragraph can be computed by using the formulas in appendix A of this part.


(f) *How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions from December 28, 1976, through August 31, 1989?* For securities subscribed for from December 28, 1976, through August 31, 1989, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:


(1) *Interest.* Interest for the entire period the security was outstanding shall be recalculated if the original interest rate of the security is higher than the interest rate that would have been set at the time of the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. If this results in an overpayment of interest, we will deduct from the redemption proceeds the aggregate amount of such overpayments, plus interest, compounded semi-annually thereon, from the date of each overpayment to the date of redemption. The rate used in calculating the interest on the overpayment will be one-eighth of one percent above the maximum rate that would have applied to the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. If a bond is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, no interest is paid for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.


(2) *Market charge.* An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds in all cases where the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining period to original maturity of the security prematurely redeemed exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. You can compute the market charge under this paragraph by using the formulas in appendix A of this part.



---

[N] [70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]






