# § 150.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Assessed company* means:


(1) A bank holding company that has $250 billion or more in total assessable assets; or


(2) A bank holding company, regardless of asset size, that has been identified as a global systemically important bank holding company under § 217.402 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations; or


(3) A nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board.


*Assessment basis* means, for a given assessment period, an estimate of the total expenses that are necessary or appropriate to carry out the responsibilities of the Office of Financial Research (OFR) and the Council as set out in the Dodd-Frank Act (including an amount necessary to reimburse reasonable implementation expenses of the Corporation that shall be treated as expenses of the Council pursuant to section 210(n)(10) of the Dodd-Frank Act).


*Assessment fee rate,* with regard to a particular assessment period, means the rate published by the Department for the calculation of assessment fees for that period.


*Assessment payment date* means:


(1) For any assessment period ending on March 31 of a given calendar year, September 15 of the prior calendar year; and


(2) For any assessment period ending on September 30 of a given calendar year, March 15 of the same year.


*Assessment period* means:


(1) Any period of time beginning on October 1 and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; or


(2) Any period of time beginning on April 1 and ending on September 30 of the same calendar year.


*Bank holding company* means:


(1) A bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841); or


(2) A foreign banking organization.


*Board* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


*Corporation* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


*Council* means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.


*Department* means the Department of the Treasury.


*Determination date* means:


(1) For any assessment period ending on March 31 of a given calendar year, April 30 of the prior calendar year; and


(2) For any assessment period ending on September 30 of a given calendar year, October 31 of the prior calendar year.


*Dodd-Frank Act* means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.


*Foreign banking organization* means a foreign bank or company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, pursuant to section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)).


*OFR* means the Office of Financial Research established by section 152 of the Dodd-Frank Act.


*Total assessable assets* means:


(1) For a bank holding company other than a foreign banking organization, the average of the company's total consolidated assets for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, as reported on the bank holding company's four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies—FR Y-9C filings;


(2) For any foreign banking organization, the average of the company's total assets of combined U.S. operations for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, as reported on the foreign banking organization's four most recent quarterly Capital and Asset Report for Foreign Banking Organizations—FR Y-7Q filings, or, if the foreign banking organization only files such form annually, the average of the two most recent annual filings on such form; or


(3) For a nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board, either the average of the company's total consolidated assets for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, if the company is a U.S. company, or the average of the total assets of the company's combined U.S. operations for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, if the company is a non-U.S. company.




