# § 60.21a   Definitions.

Terms used but not defined in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part:


(a) *Designated pollutant* means any air pollutant, the emissions of which are subject to a standard of performance for new stationary sources, but for which air quality criteria have not been issued and that is not included on a list published under section 108(a) or section 112(b)(1)(A) of the Act.


(b) *Designated facility* means any existing facility (see § 60.2) which emits a designated pollutant and which would be subject to a standard of performance for that pollutant if the existing facility were an affected facility (see § 60.2).


(c) *Plan* means a plan under section 111(d) of the Act which establishes standards of performance for designated pollutants from designated facilities and provides for the implementation and enforcement of such standards of performance.


(d) *Applicable plan* means the plan, or most recent revision thereof, which has been approved under § 60.27a(b) or promulgated under § 60.27a(d).


(e) *Emission guideline* means a guideline set forth in this part, with the exception of guidelines set forth pursuant to section 129 of the Clean Air Act, or in a final guideline document published under § 60.22a(a), which reflects the degree of emission limitation achievable through the application of the best system of emission reduction which (taking into account the cost of achieving such reduction and any non-air quality health and environmental impact and energy requirements) the Administrator has determined has been adequately demonstrated for designated facilities.


(f) *Standard of performance* means a standard for emissions of air pollutants which reflects the degree of emission limitation achievable through the application of the best system of emission reduction which (taking into account the cost of achieving such reduction and any nonair quality health and environmental impact and energy requirements) the Administrator determines has been adequately demonstrated, including a legally enforceable regulation setting forth an allowable rate, quantity, or concentration of emissions into the atmosphere, or prescribing a design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof.


(g) *Compliance schedule* means a legally enforceable schedule specifying a date or dates by which a source or category of sources must comply with specific standards of performance contained in a plan or with any increments of progress to achieve such compliance.


(h) *Increments of progress* means steps to achieve compliance which must be taken by an owner or operator of a designated facility, including:


(1) Submittal of a final control plan for the designated facility to the appropriate air pollution control agency;


(2) Awarding of contracts for emission control systems or for process modifications, or issuance of orders for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modification;


(3) Initiation of on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change;


(4) Completion of on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change; and


(5) Final compliance.


(i) *Region* means an air quality control region designated under section 107 of the Act and described in part 81 of this chapter.


(j) *Local agency* means any local governmental agency.


(k) *Meaningful engagement* means the timely engagement with pertinent stakeholders and/or their representatives in the plan development or plan revision process. Such engagement should not be disproportionate in favor of certain stakeholders and should be informed by available best practices.


(l) *Pertinent stakeholders* include, but are not limited to, industry, small businesses, and communities most affected by and/or vulnerable to the impacts of the plan or plan revision.



---

[N] [84 FR 32575, July 8, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 80542, Nov. 17, 2023]






