# ยง 573.940   Silicon dioxide.

The food additive silicon dioxide may be safely used in animal feed in accordance with the following conditions: 


(a) The food additive is manufactured by vapor phase hydrolysis or by other means whereby the particle size is such as to accomplish the intended effect. 


(b) It is used or intended for use as an anticaking agent, antifoaming agent, carrier, and/or grinding aid in animal feed, including ingredients, intermediate premixes, premixes, supplements, concentrates, and complete feed.


(c) To ensure safe use of the additive, silicon dioxide is to be used in an amount not to exceed that reasonably required to accomplish its intended effect, and silicon dioxide from all sources cannot exceed 2 percent by weight of the complete feed.


(d) To ensure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and ingredients, intermediate premixes, premixes, supplements, concentrates, and complete feed containing the additive shall meet the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, including part 501 of this chapter.


(e) To ensure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling of the additive and ingredients, intermediate premixes, premixes, supplements, and concentrates containing the additive shall have:


(1) A statement of the concentration of the additive.


(2) A statement that silicon dioxide from all sources cannot exceed 2 percent by weight of the complete feed.



---

[N] [41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 83 FR 8930, Mar. 2, 2018; 84 FR 7993, Mar. 6, 2019; 85 FR 33539, June 2, 2020]




