# ยง 165.90   Operational, inspection and maintenance requirements for all new and existing containment structures.

(a) *What are the operating procedures required for all new and existing containment structures?* As the owner or operator of a new or existing pesticide containment structure, you must:


(1) Manage the structure in a manner that prevents pesticides or materials containing pesticides from escaping from the containment structure (including, but not limited to, pesticide residues washed off the containment structure by rainfall or cleaning liquids used within the structure.)


(2) Ensure that pesticide spills and leaks on or in any containment structure are collected and recovered in a manner that ensures protection of human health and the environment (including surface water and groundwater) and maximum practicable recovery of the pesticide spilled or leaked. Cleanup must occur no later than the end of the day on which pesticides have been spilled or leaked except in circumstances where a reasonable delay would significantly reduce the likelihood or severity of adverse effects to human health or the environment.


(3) Ensure that all materials resulting from spills and leaks and any materials containing pesticide residue are managed according to label instructions and applicable Federal, State and local laws and regulations.


(4) Ensure that transfers of pesticides between containers, or between containers and transport vehicles are attended at all times.


(5) Ensure that each lockable valve on a stationary pesticide container, if it is required by ยง 165.45(f), is closed and locked, or that the facility is locked, whenever the facility is unattended.


(b) *What are the inspection and maintenance requirements for all new and existing containment structures?* As owner or operator of a new or existing pesticide containment structure, you must:


(1) Inspect each stationary pesticide container and its appurtenances and each containment structure at least monthly during periods when pesticides are being stored or dispensed on the containment structure. Your inspection must look for visible signs of wetting, discoloration, blistering, bulging, corrosion, cracks or other signs of damage or leakage.


(2) Initiate repair to any areas showing visible signs of damage and seal any cracks and gaps in the containment structure or appurtenances with material compatible with the pesticide being stored or dispensed no later than the end of the day on which damage is noticed and complete repairs within a time frame that is reasonable, taking into account factors such as the weather, and the availability of cleanup materials, trained staff, and equipment.


(3) Not store any additional pesticide on a containment structure if the structure fails to meet the requirements of this subpart until suitable repairs have been made.



---

[N] [71 FR 47422, Aug. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 64228, Oct. 29, 2008]




