# ยง 245a.37   Termination of Family Unity Program benefits.

(a) *Grounds for termination.* The Service may terminate Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments whenever the necessity for the termination comes to the attention of the Service. Such grounds will exist in situations including, but not limited to, those in which: 


(1) A determination is made that Family Unity benefits were acquired as the result of fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact; 


(2) The beneficiary commits an act or acts which render him or her ineligible for Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments; 


(3) The alien, upon whose status Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act were based, fails to apply for LIFE Legalization by June 4, 2003, has his or her LIFE Legalization application denied, or loses his or her LPR status; or 


(4) A qualifying relationship to the alien, upon whose status Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments were based, no longer exists. 


(b) *Notice procedure.* Notice of intent to terminate and of the grounds thereof shall be served pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.8. The alien shall be given 30 days to respond to the notice and may submit to the Service additional evidence in rebuttal. Any final decision of termination shall also be served pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.8. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Service from commencing removal proceedings prior to termination of Family Unity benefits. 


(c) *Effect of termination.* Termination of Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments shall render the alien amenable to removal under any ground specified in section 237 of the Act (including those grounds described in ยง 245a.34(a)). In addition, the alien will no longer be considered to be in a period of stay authorized by the Attorney General as of the date of such termination.



---

[N] [66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38352, June 4, 2002; 76 FR 53794, Aug. 29, 2011]




