# § 1406.4   Grievance mediation and Federal sector inter-agency agreement mediation —additional terms of service.

The following Terms of Service additionally apply when the FMCS service is a grievance mediation or Federal sector inter-agency agreement mediation.


(a) The grievant or complainant is entitled to be present at the mediation.


(b) The parties agree not to disclose to any non-party oral or written communications made during the mediation process, including settlement terms, proposals, offers, or other statements, whether made privately to the neutral or when all parties are present.


(c) Evidence that is otherwise admissible or discoverable will not be rendered inadmissible or non-discoverable as a result of its use in the mediation proceedings.


(d) The neutral has no authority to compel agreement or other resolution of the dispute and will issue no written recommendations or conclusions. At the request of the parties, or on the initiative of the neutral, the neutral may provide an oral recommendation or opinion to resolve the dispute. In that circumstance, the parties may jointly decide to implement that recommendation or opinion but neither party is obligated to do so.


(e) (For Federal sector inter-agency agreement mediation, if applicable) Any communications between the Agency or Organizational Program/or Alternative Dispute Resolution Coordinator and the neutral(s) and/or the parties are considered dispute resolution communications with a neutral and will be kept confidential.






