# § 1039.605   What provisions apply to engines certified under the motor-vehicle program?

(a) *General provisions.* If you are an engine manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce new nonroad engines into commerce if they are already certified to the requirements that apply to compression-ignition engines under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1039 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1039. See § 1039.610 for similar provisions that apply to engines certified to chassis-based standards for motor vehicles.


(b) *Equipment-manufacturer provisions.* If you are not an engine manufacturer, you may install motor-vehicle engines certified for the appropriate model year under 40 CFR part 86 in nonroad equipment as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. You must also add the fuel-inlet label we specify in § 1039.135(e). If you modify the motor-vehicle engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new nonroad engine. Such engine modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.


(c) *Liability.* Engines for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86. This applies to engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers who use these engines, and all other persons as if these engines were used in a motor vehicle. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new engines and equipment; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1039 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 86 or 40 CFR 1068.505.


(d) *Specific requirements.* If you are an engine manufacturer or equipment manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new nonroad engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:


(1) Your engine must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 86.


(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:


(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration.


(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.


(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.


(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in nonroad applications. This includes engines used in any application without regard to which company manufactures the vehicle or equipment. Show this as follows:


(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.


(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.


(4) You must ensure that the engine has the label we require under 40 CFR part 86.


(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the equipment. In the supplemental label, do the following:


(i) Include the heading: “NONROAD ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.


(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.


(iii) State: “THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR NONROAD USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS. THE EMISSION-CONTROL SYSTEM DEPENDS ON THE USE OF FUEL MEETING SPECIFICATIONS THAT APPLY FOR MOTOR-VEHICLE APPLICATIONS. OPERATING THE ENGINE ON OTHER FUELS MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.”


(iv) State the date you finished modifying the engine (month and year), if applicable.


(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible after the engine is installed in the equipment or, if the equipment obscures the engine's emission control information label, the equipment manufacturer must attach duplicate labels, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.


(7) You must make sure that nonroad equipment produced under this section will have the fueling label we specify in § 1039.135(c)(9)(i).


(8) Send the Designated Compliance Officer written notification describing your plans before using the provisions of this section. In addition, by February 28 of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you), send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter with all the following information:


(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) List the engine or equipment models for which you used this exemption in the previous year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(iii) State: “We prepared each listed [engine or equipment] model for nonroad application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1039.605.”


(e) *Failure to comply.* If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1039 and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1039. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).


(f) *Data submission.* We may require you to send us emission test data on any applicable nonroad duty cycles. 


(g) *Participation in averaging, banking and trading.* Engines adapted for nonroad use under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1039. These engines may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These engines must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 86 if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an applicable standard under 40 CFR part 86.



---

[N] [69 FR 39213, June 29, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 40463, July 13, 2005; 72 FR 53132, Sept. 18, 2007; 75 FR 22992, Apr. 30, 2010; 81 FR 74138, Oct. 25, 2016]




