# § 319.77-3   Gypsy moth infested areas in Canada.

The following areas in Canada are known to be infested with gypsy moth: 


(a) *Province of New Brunswick*—(1) *Charlotte County.* That portion of Charlotte County that includes the following parishes: Campobello Island, Dumbarton, Dufferin, Grand Manan Island, St. Andrews, St. Croix, St. David, St. George, St. James, St. Patrick, and St. Stephen. 


(2) *Kings County.* That portion of Kings County that includes the following parishes: Greenwich, Kars, and Springfield. 


(3) *Queens County.* (i) That portion of Queens County that includes the following parishes: Canning, Cambridge, Gagetown, Johnston, and Wickham; and 


(ii) That portion of Chipman Parish south or west of highway 10; and 


(iii) That portion of Waterborough Parish west of highway 10 and south of highway 2. 


(4) *Sunbury County.* That portion of Sunbury County that includes the following parishes: Blissville, Burton, Gladstone, Lincoln, and Sheffield. 


(5) *York County.* (i) That portion of York County that includes the City of Fredericton and the following parishes: North Lake and McAdam; and 


(ii) That portion of Queensbury parish south and east of the Scotch Lake Road beginning in the west at Bear Island on the St. John River and ending at the Parish border on the east. 


(b) *Province of Nova Scotia*—(1) *Annapolis County.* The entire county. 


(2) *Digby County.* The entire county. 


(3) *Halifax County.* The area of the county bounded by a line beginning at the intersection of the Halifax/Lunenburg County border and the Atlantic Ocean; then north along the Halifax/Lunenburg County border to the Halifax/Hants County border; then east along the Halifax/Hants County border to route 354; then south along route 354 to route 568 (Beaverbank-Windsor Junction Road); then east along route 568 (Beaverbank-Windsor Junction Road) to route 416 (Fall River Road); then east and north along route 416 (Fall River Road) to route 2; then south along route 2 to route 102/118; then south along route 118 to route 107; then south along route 107 to route 7; then east along route 7 to route 328; then south along route 328 to the shoreline of Cole Harbour; then west along the seashore from Cole Harbour to the point of beginning. 


(4) *Hants County.* The area of the county bounded by a line beginning at the intersection of the Hants/Kings County border and the shoreline of the Minas Basin; then southwest along the Hants/Kings County border to the Hants/Lunenburg County border; then southeast along the Hants/Lunenburg County border to the Hants/Halifax County border; then east along the Hants/Halifax County border to route 354; then north along route 354 to the Minas Basin; then west along the shoreline of the Minas Basin to the point of beginning. 


(5) *Kings County.* The entire county. 


(6) *Lunenberg County.* The entire county. 


(7) *Queens County.* The entire county. 


(8) *Shelburne County.* The entire county. 


(9) *Yarmouth County.* The entire county. 


(c) *Province of Ontario.* (1) That portion of the Province of Ontario that includes the following counties and regional municipalities: Brant, Bruce, Dufferin, Durham, Elgin, Essex, Frontenac, Grey, Haldimand-Norfolk, Haliburton, Halton, Hamilton-Wentworth, Hastings, Huron, Kent, Lambton, Lanark, Leeds-Granville, Lennox-Addington, Middlesex, Muskoka, Niagara, Northumberland, Ottawa-Carleton, Oxford, Parry Sound, Peel, Perth, Peterborough, Prescott-Russell, Prince Edward, Renfrew, Simcoe, Stormont-Dundas-Glengarry, Victoria, Waterloo, Wellington, and York; and 


(2) That portion of Algoma District that includes the City of Sault Ste. Marie and the following townships: Bright, Bright Additional, Cobden, Denis, Garden River First Nation, Indian Reserve #7, Johnson, Korah, Laird, Lefroy, Lewis, Long, MacDonald, Parke, Plummer Additional, Prince, Tarbutt, Tarbutt Additional, Tarentorus, Thessalon, Thompson, Shedden, Spragge, and Striker; and 


(3) That portion of Algoma District south of Highway 17 and east of the City of Sault Ste. Marie; and 


(4) That portion of Manitoulin District that includes: Cockburn Island, Great Cloche Island, Manitoulin Island, St. Joseph Island, and all Indian Reserves; and 


(5) That portion of Nipissing District that includes the City of North Bay; and 


(6) That portion of Nipissing District south of the Ottawa and Mattawa rivers; and 


(7) That portion of Nipissing District south of highway 17 and west of the City of North Bay; and 


(8) That portion of Sudbury District that includes the City of Sudbury and the townships of Baldwin, Dryden, Dunlop, Graham, Hallam, Hymen, Indian Reserves #4, #5, and #6, Lorne, Louise; May, McKim, Nairn, Neelon, Porter, Salter, Shakespeare, Victoria, and Waters; and 


(9) That portion of the Sudbury District south of Highway 17. 


(d) *Province of Quebec.* (1) That portion of the Province of Quebec that includes the following regional county municipalities: Acton, Arthabaska, Asbestos, Beauce-Sartigan, Beauharnois-Salaberry, Bécancour, Bellechasse, Brome-Missisquoi, Champlain, Coaticook, Communauté Urbaine de Montréal, Communauté Urbaine de L'Outaouais, D'Autray, Desjardins, Deux-Montagnes, Drummond, Francheville, Joliette, L'Amiante, L'Assomption, L'Érable, L'île-d'Orléans, Lajemmerais, Laval, La Nouvelle-Beauce, La Rivière-du-Nord, La Vallée-du-Richelieu, Le Bas-Richelieu, Le Granit, Le Haut-Richelieu, Le Haut-Saint-Francois, Le Haut-Saint-Laurent, Le Haute-Yamaska, Le Val-Saint-Francois, Les Chutes-de-la-Chaudire, Les Collines-de-L'Outaouais, Les Etchemins, Les Jardins-de-Napierville, Les Maskoutains, Les Moulins, Lotbinière, Memphrémagog, Mirabel, Montcalm, Montmagny, Nicolet-Yamaska, Robert-Cliche, Roussillon, Rouville, Sherbrooke, Therese-de Blainville, and Vaudreuil-Soulanges; and 


(2) That portion of the regional county municipality of Antoine-Llabelle that includes the following municipalities: Notre-Dame-du-Laus, Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain, and Saint-Aimé-du-Lac-des-Iles; and 


(3) That portion of the regional county municipality of Argenteuil that includes the following municipalities: Brownsburg, Calumet, Carillon, Chatham, Grenville, Lachute, Saint-André-d'Argenteuil, and Saint-André-Est; and 


(4) That portion of the regional county municipality of Communauté Urbaine De Québec that includes the following municipalities: Cap-Rouge, L'Ancienne-Lorette, Québec, Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures, Sainte-Foy, Sillery, and Vanier; and 


(5) That portion of the regional county municipality of La Vallée-de-la-Gatineau that includes the following municipalities: Denholm, Gracefield, Kazabazua, Lac-Sainte-Marie, Low, Northfield, and Wright; and 


(6) That portion of the regional county municipality of Le Centre-de-la-Mauricie that includes the following municipalities: Charette, Notre-Dame-du-Mont-Carmel, Sainte-Elie, Shawinigan, and Shawinigan (Sud); and 


(7) That portion of the regional county municipality of Les Laurentides that includes the following municipality: La Conception; and 


(8) That portion of the regional county municipality of Les Pays-d'en-Haut that includes the following municipality: Mont-Rolland; and 


(9) That portion of the regional county municipality of Maskinongé that includes the following municipalities: Louiseville, Maskinongé, Saint-Joseph-de-Maskinongé, Saint-Barnabé, Saint-Sévère, Saint-Léon-le-Grand, Saint-Paulin, Sainte-Ursule, Saint-Justin, Saint-édouard-de-Maskinongé, Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont, and Yamachiche; and 


(10) That portion of the regional county municipality of Matawinie that includes the following municipalities: Saint-Félix-de-Valois, Saint-Jean-de-Matha, Rawdon, and Chertsey; and 


(11) That portion of the regional county municipality of Papineau that includes the following municipalities: Fassett, Lochaber, Lochaber-Partie-Ouest, Mayo, Montebello, Montpellier, Mulgrave-et-Derry, Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Secours-Partie-Nord, Papineauville, Plaisance, Ripon (Village et Canton), Saint-André-Avellin (Village et Paroise), Sainte-Angélique, Saint-Sixte, and Thurso; and 


(12) That portion of the regional county municipality of Pontiac that includes the following municipalities: Bristol, Shawville, Clarendon, Portage-du-Fort, Bryson, Campbell's Bay, Grand-Calumet, Litchfield, Thorne, Alleyn-et-Cawood, Leslie-Clapham-et-Huddersfield, Fort-Coulonge, Mansfield-et-Pontefract, Waltham-et-Bryson, L'Isle-aux-Allumettes-Partie-Est, Chapeau, L'Isle-aux-Allumettes, Chichester, Sheen-Esher-Aberdeen-et-Malakoff, and Rapides-des-Joachims; and 


(13) That portion of the regional county municipality of Portneuf that includes the following municipalities: Cap-Santé, Deschambault, Donnacona, Grondines, Neuville, and Pointe-aux-Trembles.



---

[N] [65 FR 38175, June 20, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 59453, Sept. 23, 2002]




