# ยง 4284.540   Application processing.

The following information describes the way the Agency will process applications, including the evaluation of eligibility, risk, and merit.


(a) *Eligibility evaluation.* The Agency will review all applications to determine if they are eligible for assistance based on the requirements in this subpart and other applicable Federal laws and regulations. In particular, the Agency will check the OMB designated repository of government information and, applicants that are excluded from Federal funding will be determined ineligible (see 2 CFR 200.206 for more information). An application must include all application requirements identified in ยง 4284.531, or the Agency will determine that it is ineligible for assistance.


(b) *Risk evaluation.* The Agency will review those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program.


(1) Typically, the Agency will not determine that an application is ineligible for funding based on the results of the risk evaluation, unless the Agency cannot find a way to reasonably mitigate the risk posed by making an award.


(2) If risk evaluation findings identify significant shortcomings in the Applicant's ability to manage Federal funds, the Agency may determine that the application is ineligible for funding.


(3) The Agency will determine if the Applicant has satisfactory performance for all Federal Awards received in the last five (5) years, based upon review of deficiencies reported in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System, or its successor system, the Do Not Pay system, or its successor system, and the Agency's own internal financial and record-keeping systems and files. Satisfactory performance includes timely submission of required reports and documents, timely completion of tasks, and proper use of funds, including achieving the level of funds approved and committed for Underserved and Economically Distressed areas.


(c) *Merit evaluation (Up to 100 total points).* The Agency will conduct a merit evaluation for those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program. The merit evaluation will be conducted by a panel of USDA employees who will convene to reach a consensus on the merit of each eligible application. The merit evaluation will be based on the following criteria:


(1) *Experience (Up to 30 points).* The Agency will evaluate the Applicant's demonstrated experience in Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development; and effectiveness in accomplishing effective outcomes through the development of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses. Points will be awarded based on the following:


(i) Up to 5 points for track record in providing Technical Assistance to promote and assist the development of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses.


(ii) Up to 5 points for ability to facilitate Cooperative Development that results in the establishment of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses in Rural Areas.


(iii) Up to 5 points for ability to facilitate the establishment of New Cooperative Approaches in Rural Areas.


(iv) Up to 5 points for the ability to assist in the retention of businesses in Rural Areas.


(v) Up to 5 points for ability to create and/or save jobs that improve economic conditions of Rural Areas.


(vi) Up to 5 points for ability to improve other economic conditions in Rural Areas.


(2) *Work plan and budget (Up to 45 points).* The Agency will evaluate the Applicant's work plan and budget on its ability to provide a clear, logical, realistic and efficient use of grant and Matching Funds; level of commitment to Underserved and Economically Distressed areas; and Networking with States, Centers and other organizations engaged in Economic Development efforts in Rural Areas. Points will be awarded based on the following:


(i) *Work plan and budget detail.* Up to 30 points will be awarded as follows:


(A) 0 points will be awarded if the application does not address paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(B) through (E) of this section.


(B) Up to 10 points will be awarded if the application provides a detailed narrative description for each of the specific tasks to be completed.


(C) Up to 10 points will be awarded if the application provides a detailed breakdown of all estimated Project Costs, including Operating Costs, for each task with grant and Matching Funds identified separately.


(D) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the application identifies the Key Personnel associated with each task.


(E) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the application provides specific timeframes for each task.


(ii) *Underserved and Economically Distressed.* Up to 15 points will be awarded to Applicants whose work plans and budgets demonstrate their commitment to Underserved and Economically Distressed area(s) as defined in the annual notification.


(A) 0 points will be awarded if the application does not identify tasks and a budget commitment to Underserved and Economically Distressed area(s).


(B) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant identifies the Underserved and Economically Distressed area(s) within their service area.


(C) Up to 10 points will be awarded if the Applicant's budget commitment (grant and Matching Funds) to Underserved and Economically Distressed areas is:


(*1*) Less than 5 percent budget commitment = 2 points.


(*2*) 5 percent or greater but less than 10 percent budget commitment = 4 points.


(*3*) 10 percent or greater but less than 25 percent budget commitment = 6 points.


(*4*) 25 percent or greater but less than 50 percent budget commitment = 8 points.


(*5*) 50 percent or more budget commitment = 10 points.


(3) *Networking.* Up to 10 points will be awarded to Applicants who demonstrate a commitment to Networking and plan to develop multi-organizational and multi-State Cooperative Development approaches.


(i) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant describes how it intends to create and share best practices and transferrable strategies with other Centers or organizations engaged in Economic Development.


(ii) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant describes how it will develop joint Technical Assistance, including Cooperative Development, projects and mentor/mentee relationships with other Centers and other organizations engaged in Economic Development.


(4) *Qualifications of Key Personnel (Up to 10 points).* The Agency will evaluate if the Key Personnel listed in the work plan and budget are qualified for their related task(s). Points will be awarded as follows:


(i) 0 points will be awarded if the Applicant does not identify formal training, skills, and years of experience for any Key Personnel.


(ii) 1 to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant details the formal training, skills, and years of experience of some, but not all of the Key Personnel.


(iii) 6 to 10 points will be awarded if the Applicant details the formal training, skills, and years of experience of all Key Personnel.


(5) *Matching Funds commitment (5 points).* Applicants must meet the Matching Funds requirement to be considered for points. Applicants who meet the 25 percent (5 percent for 1994 Institutions) Matching Funds requirement will receive 5 points.






