# § 4006.5   Exemptions and special rules.

(a) *Variable-rate premium exemptions.* A plan described in any of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section is not required to determine or report its unfunded vested benefits under § 4006.4 and does not owe a variable-rate premium under § 4006.3(b).


(1) *Plans without vested participants.* A plan is described in this paragraph if it does not have any participants with vested benefits as of the UVB valuation date.


(2) *Section 412(e)(3) plans.* A plan is described in this paragraph if the plan is a plan described in section 412(e)(3) of the Code and the regulations thereunder on the UVB valuation date.


(3) *Certain plans completing a standard termination.* A plan is described in this paragraph if it—


(i) Makes a final distribution of assets in a standard termination during the premium payment year, and


(ii) Did not engage in a spinoff during the premium payment year, unless the spinoff is de minimis pursuant to the regulations under section 414(l) of the Code.


(4) *Certain plans in the process of completing a standard termination initiated in a prior year.* A plan is described in this paragraph if —


(i) The plan administrator has issued notices of intent to terminate the plan in a standard termination in accordance with section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA;


(ii) The proposed termination date set forth in the notice of intent to terminate is before the beginning of the premium payment year; and


(iii) The plan ultimately makes a final distribution of plan assets in conjunction with the plan termination.


(5) *Certain small new and newly covered plans.* A plan is described in this paragraph if—


(i) It is a small plan other than a continuation plan, and


(ii) It is a new plan or a newly covered plan.


(b) *Reporting exemption for plans paying capped variable-rate premium.* A plan that qualifies for the variable-rate premium cap described in section 4006(a)(3)(I) of ERISA for certain small employers is not required to determine or report its unfunded vested benefits under § 4006.4 if it reports that it qualifies for the cap and pays a variable-rate premium equal to the amount of the cap.


(c) *Participant count date; in general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the participant count date of a plan is the last day of the plan year preceding the premium payment year.


(d) *Participant count date; new and newly covered plans.* The participant count date of a new plan or a newly covered plan is the first day of the premium payment year. For this purpose, a new plan's premium payment year begins on the plan's effective date.


(e) *Participant count date; certain transactions.* (1) The participant count date of a plan described in paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section is the first day of the premium payment year.


(2) With respect to a transaction where some, but not all, of the assets and liabilities of one plan (the “transferor plan”) are transferred into another plan (the “transferee plan”)—


(i) The transferor plan if the spinoff is not de minimis and is effective at the beginning of the transferor plan's premium payment year; and


(ii) The transferee plan if the transferor plan meets the criteria in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section and the transfer occurs at the beginning of the transferee plan's premium payment year.


(3) With respect to a merger effective at the beginning of the premium payment year, the transferee plan if—


(i) The merger is not de minimis; or


(ii) The assets of the transferee plan immediately before the merger are less than the total assets transferred to the transferee plan in the merger.


(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), “de minimis” has the meaning described in regulations under section 414(l) of the Code (for single-employer plans) or in part 4231 of this chapter (for multiemployer plans).


(f) *Proration for certain short plan years.* The premium for a plan that has a short plan year described in this paragraph (f) is prorated by the number of months in the short plan year (treating a part of a month as a month). The proration applies whether or not the short plan year ends by the premium due date for the short plan year. For purposes of this paragraph (f), there is a short plan year in the following circumstances: 


(1) *New or newly covered plan.* A new plan becomes effective less than one full year before the beginning of its second plan year, or a newly covered plan becomes covered on a date other than the first day of its plan year. (Cessation of coverage before the end of a plan year does not give rise to proration under this section.) 


(2) *Change in plan year.* A plan amendment changes the plan year, but only if the plan does not merge into or consolidate with another plan or otherwise cease its independent existence either during the short plan year or at the beginning of the full plan year following the short plan year. 


(3) *Distribution of assets.* The plan's assets (other than any residual assets under section 4044(d) of ERISA) are distributed pursuant to the plan's termination, but only if the plan did not engage in a spinoff during the plan year, unless the spinoff is de minimis pursuant to the regulations under section 414(l) of the Code.


(4) *Appointment of trustee.* The plan is a single-employer plan, and a plan trustee is appointed pursuant to section 4042 of ERISA.


(g) *Alternative premium funding target.* A plan's alternative premium funding target is determined in the same way as its standard premium funding target except that the discount rates described in ERISA section 4006(a)(3)(E)(iv) are not used. Instead, the alternative premium funding target is determined using the discount rates that would have been used to determine the funding target for the plan under ERISA section 303 for the purpose of determining the plan's minimum contribution under ERISA section 303 for the UVB valuation year if the segment rate stabilization provisions of ERISA section 303(h)(2)(iv) were disregarded. A plan may elect to compute unfunded vested benefits using the alternative premium funding target instead of the standard premium funding target described in § 4006.4(b)(2), and may revoke such an election, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (g). A plan must compute its unfunded vested benefits using the alternative premium funding target instead of the standard premium funding target described in § 4006.4(b)(2) if an election under this paragraph (g) to use the alternative premium funding target is in effect for the premium payment year.


(1) An election under this paragraph (g) to use the alternative premium funding target for a plan must specify the premium payment year to which it first applies and must be filed by the plan's variable-rate premium due date for that premium payment year. The premium payment year to which the election first applies must begin at least five years after the beginning of the premium payment year to which a revocation of a prior election first applied. The election will be effective—


(i) For the premium payment year for which made and for all plan years that begin less than five years thereafter, and


(ii) For all succeeding plan years until the premium payment year to which a revocation of the election first applies.


(2) A revocation of an election under this paragraph (g) to use the alternative premium funding target for a plan must specify the premium payment year to which it first applies and must be filed by the plan's variable-rate premium due date for that premium payment year. The premium payment year to which the revocation first applies must begin at least five years after the beginning of the premium payment year to which the election first applied.



---

[N] [61 FR 34016, July 1, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 60428, Nov. 7, 1997; 65 FR 75163, Dec. 1, 2000; 71 FR 31081, June 1, 2005; 73 FR 15075, Mar. 21, 2008; 79 FR 13560, Mar. 11, 2014; 85 FR 6058, Feb. 4, 2020; 88 FR 76664, Nov. 7, 2023]




