# § 343.2   Requirements for filing interventions, protests and complaints.

(a) *Interventions.* Section 385.214 of this chapter applies to oil pipeline proceedings.


(b) *Standing to file protest.* Only persons with a substantial economic interest in the tariff filing may file a protest to a tariff filing pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. Along with the protest, a verified statement that the protestor has a substantial economic interest in the tariff filing in question must be filed.


(c) *Other requirements for filing protests or complaints*—(1) *Rates established under § 342.3 of this chapter.* A protest or complaint filed against a rate proposed or established pursuant to § 342.3 of this chapter must allege reasonable grounds for asserting that the rate violates the applicable ceiling level, or that the rate increase is so substantially in excess of the actual cost increases incurred by the carrier that the rate is unjust and unreasonable, or that the rate decrease is so substantially less than the actual cost decrease incurred by the carrier that the rate is unjust and unreasonable. In addition to meeting the requirements of the section, a complaint must also comply with all the requirements of § 385.206, except § 385.206(b)(1) and (2).


(2) *Rates established under § 342.4(c) of this chapter.* A protest or complaint filed against a rate proposed or established under § 342.4(c) of this chapter must allege reasonable grounds for asserting that the rate is so substantially in excess of the actual cost increases incurred by the carrier that the rate is unjust and unreasonable. In addition to meeting the requirements of the section, a complaint must also comply with all the requirements of § 385.206, except § 385.206(b)(1) and (2).


(3) *Non-rate matters.* A protest or complaint filed against a carrier's operations or practices, other than rates, must allege reasonable grounds for asserting that the operations or practices violate a provision of the Interstate Commerce Act, or of the Commission's regulations. In addition to meeting the requirements of this section, a complaint must also comply with the requirements of § 385.206.


(4) A protest or complaint that does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section, whichever is applicable, will be dismissed.



---

[N] [Order 561, 58 FR 58780, Nov. 4, 1993, as amended by Order 602, 64 FR 17097, Apr. 8, 1999; Order 606, 64 FR 44405, Aug. 16, 1999]




