# § 1850.5   Requirements for making requests.

(a) *Type of records made available.* The Council shall make available upon request, pursuant to the procedures in this section and subject to the exceptions set forth in FOIA, all records of the Council that are not available under § 1850.4. The Council's policy is to make discretionary disclosures of records or information otherwise exempt from disclosure under FOIA unless the Council reasonably foresees that such disclosure would harm an interest protected by one or more FOIA exemptions, or otherwise prohibited by law. This policy does not create any enforceable right in court.


(b) *Procedures for requesting records.* A request for records shall reasonably describe the records in a way that enables Council staff to identify and produce the records with reasonable effort. The requester should include as much specific information as possible regarding dates, titles, and names of individuals. In cases where the request requires production of voluminous records, or is not reasonably described, a Council representative may suggest the requester, or the individual acting on the requester's behalf, to verify the scope of the request and, if possible, narrow the request. Once narrowed, the Council will process the request. All requests must be submitted in writing (including by email, fax or mail) to the Council's Records Management Officer. Requesters shall clearly mark a request as a “Freedom of Information Act Request” or “FOIA Request” on the front of the envelope or in the subject line of the email.


(c) *Contents of request.* The request, at minimum, shall contain the following information:


(1) The name, telephone number, and non-electronic address of the requester;


(2) Whether the requested information is intended for commercial use, or whether the requester represents an education or noncommercial scientific institution, or news media; and


(3) A statement agreeing to pay the applicable fees, identifying any fee limitation desired, or requesting a waiver or reduction of fees that satisfies § 1850.10(j)(1) to (3).


(d) *Perfected requests.* The requester must meet all the requirements in this section to perfect a request. The Council will only process perfected requests.


(e) *Requests by an individual for Council records pertaining to that individual.* An individual who wishes to inspect or obtain copies of Council records that pertain to that individual must file a request in accordance with subpart B of this part.


(f) *Requests for Council records pertaining to another individual.* Where a request for records pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration by that individual made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746, authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof the individual is deceased (*e.g.* a copy of the death certificate or an obituary). The Council may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.


(g) Requesters may submit a request for records, expedited processing or waiver of fees by writing directly to the Records Management Officer via email at *FOIArequest@restorethegulf.gov,* or first class United States mail at 500 Poydras Street, Suite 1117, New Orleans, LA 70130.


(h) Any Council officer or employee who receives a written Freedom of Information Act request shall promptly forward it to the Records Management Officer. Any Council officer or employee who receives an oral request under the Freedom of Information Act shall inform the person making the request that it must be in writing and also inform such person of the provisions of this subpart.




