# ยง 1220.201   Membership of board.

(a) For the purposes of nominating and appointing producers to the Board, the United States shall be divided into thirty-one geographic units and the number of Board members from each unit, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be as follows:


(b) The Board shall be composed of soybean producers appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to ยง 1220.203. A soybean producer may only be nominated by the unit in which that soybean producer is a resident or producer.


(c) At the end of each three (3) year period, the Board shall review the geographic distribution of soybean production volume throughout the United States and may recommend to the Secretary a modification of paragraph (e) of this section, to best reflect the geographic distribution of soybean production volume in the United States. The Secretary may amend this subpart to make the changes recommended by the Board in levels of productions used to determine per unit representation. A unit may not, as a result of any modifications under this subsection, lose Board seats to which it is entitled at the time this subpart is initially issued unless its average annual production, as determined under paragraph (e)(6) of this section, declines below the levels required for representation, as specified in paragraphs (e) (1) through (5) of this section. 


(d) At the end of each three (3) year period, the Secretary shall review the volume of production (minus the volume of production for which refunds have been paid) of each unit provided representation under paragraph (a) of this section, and shall adjust the boundaries of any unit and the number of Board members from each such unit to conform with the criteria set out in paragraphs (e) (1) through (5) of this section. 


(e) The following formula will be used to determine the number of directors for each unit who shall serve on the Board:


(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, each State will be considered as a separate unit. 


(ii) States which do not have annual average soybean production equal to or greater than three million (3,000,000) bushels shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, into geographically contiguous units each of which, to the extent practicable, have a combined annual soybean production level which is equal to or greater than three million (3,000,000) bushels and each such unit shall be entitled to at least one representative on the Board. 


(2) Each unit that has an annual average soybean production of less than fifteen million (15,000,000) bushels shall be entitled to one representative on the Board. 


(3) Each unit which has an annual average soybean production of fifteen million (15,000,000) or more bushels but less than seventy million (70,000,000) bushels shall be entitled to two (2) representatives on the Board. 


(4) Each unit which has an annual average soybean production of seventy million (70,000,000) or more bushels but less than two hundred million (200,000,000) bushels shall be entitled to three (3) representatives on the Board. 


(5) Each unit which has an annual average soybean production of two hundred million (200,000,000) bushels or more shall be entitled to four (4) representatives on the Board.


(6) For the purposes of this section, average annual soybean production shall be determined by using the average of the production for the State or unit over the five previous years, excluding the year in which production was the highest and the year in which production was the lowest. 


(f) [Reserved]



---

[N] [56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 29962, June 7, 1995; 60 FR 58500, Nov. 28, 1995; 62 FR 37489, July 14, 1997; 62 FR 41485, Aug. 1, 1997; 65 FR 63768, Oct. 25, 2000; 68 FR 57327, Oct. 3, 2003; 71 FR 69430, Dec. 1, 2006; 74 FR 62676, Dec. 1, 2009; 78 FR 2, Jan. 2, 2013; 80 FR 63910, Oct. 22, 2015; 83 FR 53366, Oct. 23, 2018; 86 FR 61670, Nov. 8, 2021; 89 FR 90571, Nov. 18, 2024]




