# ยง 1045.150   Can anyone remove the RD, FRD, or TFNI portions and markings to produce an NSI or unclassified version of the matter?

(a) *Removal of RD, FRD, or TFNI portions from matter containing RD, FRD, or TFNI.* Specific authority is required to remove RD, FRD, or TFNI portions from matter. The authority required depends on whether the matter is intended for public release, the category of information in the matter, and whether the matter is portion marked.


(b) *If the resulting or new matter is intended for public release.* An RD Derivative Classifier or a person trained to classify matter containing TFNI does not have the authority to remove the RD, FRD, or TFNI portions or markings for matter intended for public release. The matter must be submitted in accordance with ยง 1045.125 to the appropriate agency who will review the matter and remove the RD, FRD, or TFNI portions and markings.


(c) *If the resulting matter is not intended for public release.* (1) An RD Derivative Classifier may remove the portions marked as containing RD or FRD and remove the RD or FRD markings.


(2) A person trained in accordance with ยง 1045.120(e) may remove the portions containing TFNI and the TFNI markings.


(3) In all cases under ยง 1045.150(b) this may be done only if the matter is originated by the authorized person's agency and the matter is portion marked, and the resulting matter is reviewed to ensure it does not contain RD, FRD, or TFNI by a person authorized to review the matter.




