# § 725.65   Recordkeeping.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) Any person who submits a notice under this part must retain documentation of information in the submission, including:


(i) Any data in the submitter's possession or control; and


(ii) Records of production volume for the first 3 years of manufacture, import, or processing.


(2) Any person who submits a notice under this part must retain documentation of the date of commencement of testing, manufacture, import, or processing. 


(3) Any person who is exempt from some or all of the reporting requirements of this part must retain documentation that supports the exemption.


(4) All information required by this section must be retained for 3 years from the date of commencement of each activity for which records are required under this part. 


(b) *Specific requirements.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, specific recordkeeping requirements included in certain subparts must also be followed. 


(1) Additional recordkeeping requirements for activities conducted inside a structure are set forth in § 725.235(h). 


(2) Additional recordkeeping requirements for TERAs are set forth in § 725.250(f). 


(3) Additional recordkeeping requirements for TMEs are set forth in § 725.350(c). 


(4) Additional recordkeeping requirements for Tier I exemptions under subpart G of this part are set forth in § 725.424(a)(5). 


(5) Additional recordkeeping requirements for Tier II exemptions under subpart G of this part are set forth in § 725.450(d). 


(6) Additional recordkeeping requirements for significant new uses of microorganisms reported under subpart L of this part are set forth in § 725.850. Recordkeeping requirements may also be included when a microorganism and significant new use are added to subpart M of this part. 




