# ยง 2204.406   Decision.

The preparation and issuance of decision on the fee application shall be in accordance with ยง 2200.90 of this chapter.


(a) *For an application involving a prevailing party.* The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if applicable, findings on whether the Secretary's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust.


(b) *For an application involving an allegedly excessive agency demand.* The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and an explanation of the reasons why the agency's demand was or was not determined to be substantially in excess of the underlying decision in the matter and whether the Secretary's demand was or was not unreasonable. That determination shall be based upon all the facts and circumstances of the case.


(c) *Awards.* The judge presiding over an EAJA proceeding or the Commission on review may reduce the amount to be awarded, or deny any award, to the extent that the party during the course of the proceedings engaged in conduct which unduly and unreasonably protracted the final resolution of the matter in controversy.


(1) Awards shall be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate to the applicant.


(2) An award for the fee of an attorney or agent under this paragraph (c) shall not exceed the hourly rate specified in 5 U.S.C. 504(b)(1)(A), except to account for inflation since the last update of the statute's maximum award upon the request of the applicant as documented in the application pursuant to ยง 2204.303. An award to compensate an expert witness shall not exceed the highest rate at which the Secretary pays expert witnesses. However, an award may include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.


(3) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent, or expert witness, the following shall be considered:


(i) If the attorney, agent, or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or, if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;


(ii) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent, or witness ordinarily perform services;


(iii) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;


(iv) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and


(v) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.


(4) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project, or similar matter prepared on behalf of the party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.




