# § 98.77   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the following records specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each ammonia manufacturing unit. 

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure emissions, retain records of all feedstock purchases in addition to the requirements in § 98.37 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology.


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure process CO_2_ emissions, you must also retain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(2) of this section:


(1) Records of all analyses and calculations conducted for reported data as listed in § 98.76(b).


(2) Monthly records of carbon content of feedstock from supplier and/or all analyses conducted of carbon content.


(c) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) Volume of each gaseous feedstock used in month (scf of feedstock) (in Equation G-1 of § 98.73).


(2) Carbon content of each gaseous feedstock, for month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (in Equation G-1).


(3) Molecular weight of each gaseous feedstock per ammonia manufacturing unit with gaseous feedstock (kg/kg-mole) (Equation G-1).


(4) Volume of each liquid feedstock used in month (gallons of feedstock) (Equation G-2 of § 98.73).


(5) Carbon content of each liquid feedstock, for month (kg C per gallon of feedstock) (Equation G-2).


(6) Mass of each solid feedstock used in month (kg of feedstock) (Equation G-3 of § 98.73).


(7) Carbon content of each solid feedstock, for month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation G-3).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63785, Oct. 24, 2014]




