# § 10.68   Motions and requests.

(a) *Motions*—(1) *In general.* At any time after the filing of the complaint, any party may file a motion with the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, motions must be in writing and must be served on the opposing party as provided in § 10.63(b). A motion must concisely specify its grounds and the relief sought, and, if appropriate, must contain a memorandum of facts and law in support.


(2) *Summary adjudication.* Either party may move for a summary adjudication upon all or any part of the legal issues in controversy. If the non-moving party opposes summary adjudication in the moving party's favor, the non-moving party must file a written response within 30 days unless ordered otherwise by the Administrative Law Judge.


(3) *Good Faith.* A party filing a motion for extension of time, a motion for postponement of a hearing, or any other non-dispositive or procedural motion must first contact the other party to determine whether there is any objection to the motion, and must state in the motion whether the other party has an objection.


(b) *Response.* Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, the nonmoving party is not required to file a response to a motion. If the Administrative Law Judge does not order the nonmoving party to file a response, and the nonmoving party files no response, the nonmoving party is deemed to oppose the motion. If a nonmoving party does not respond within 30 days of the filing of a motion for decision by default for failure to file a timely answer or for failure to prosecute, the nonmoving party is deemed not to oppose the motion.


(c) *Oral motions; oral argument.* (1) The Administrative Law Judge may, for good cause and with notice to the parties, permit oral motions and oral opposition to motions.


(2) The Administrative Law Judge may, within his or her discretion, permit oral argument on any motion.


(d) *Orders.* The Administrative Law Judge should issue written orders disposing of any motion or request and any response thereto.


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.



---

[N] [T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, Sept. 26, 2007]




