# § 1924.104   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Applicant.* Any person, partnership, limited partnership, trust, consumer cooperative, corporation, public body, or association that has filed a preapplication, or in the case of RHS programs that do not require a preapplication, an official application, with RHS in anticipation of receiving or utilizing RHS financial assistance.


*Community.* A community includes cities, towns, boroughs, villages, and unincorporated places which have the characteristics of incorporated areas with support services such as shopping, post office, schools, central sewer and water facilities, police and fire protection, hospitals, medical and pharmaceutical facilities, etc., and are easily identifiable as established concentrations of inhabited dwellings and private and public buildings.


*Developer.* Any person, partnership, public body, or corporation who is involved with the development of a site which will be financed by RHS.


*Development.* The act of building structures and installing site improvements on an individual dwelling site, a subdivision, or a multiple family tract.


*Multiple Family Housing.* RHS RRH loans, RCH loans, LH loans and grants, and RHS loans.


*Single Family Housing.* RHS Rural Housing loans for individuals for construction of, repair of, or purchase of a dwelling to be occupied by one household.


*Site.* A parcel of land proposed as a dwelling site, with or without development.


*Site approval official.* The RHS making the determination that a site meets the requirements in this subpart to be acceptable for site loans. (See § 1924.120.)


*Street surfaces.* Streets may be hard or all-weather surfaced.


(1) *Hard surface*—a street with a portland cement concrete, asphaltic concrete, or bituminous wearing surface or other hard surfaces which are acceptable and suitable to the local public body for use with local climate, soil, gradient, and volume and character of traffic.


(2) *All-weather*—a street that can be used year-round with a minimum of maintenance, such as the use of a grader and minor application of surface material, and is acceptable and suitable to the local public body for use with local climate, soil, gradient, and volume and character of traffic.


*Subdivision.* Five or more contiguous (developed or undeveloped) lots or building sites. Subdivisions may be new or existing.




