# § 160.185   Dried egg yolks.

(a) Dried egg yolks, dried yolks is the food prepared by drying egg yolks that conform to § 160.180, with such precautions that the finished food is free of viable *Salmonella* microorganisms. Before drying, the glucose content of the liquid egg yolks may be reduced by one of the optional procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Either silicon dioxide complying with the provisions of § 172.480 of this chapter or sodium silicoaluminate may be added as an optional anticaking ingredient, but the amount of silicon dioxide used is not more than 1 percent and the amount of sodium silicoaluminate used is less than 2 percent by weight of the finished food. The finished food shall contain not less than 95 percent by weight total egg solids.


(b) The optional glucose-removing procedures are:


(1) *Enzyme procedure.* A glucose-oxidase-catalase preparation and hydrogen peroxide solution are added to the liquid egg yolks. The quantity used and the time of reaction are sufficient to substantially reduce the glucose content of the liquid egg yolks. The glucose-oxidase-catalase preparation used is one that is generally recognized as safe within the meaning of section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The hydrogen peroxide solution used shall comply with the specification of the United States Pharmacopeia, except that it may exceed the concentration specified therein and it does not contain a preservative.


(2) *Yeast procedure.* The pH of the liquid egg yolks is adjusted to the range of 6.0 to 7.0, if necessary, by the addition of dilute, chemically pure hydrochloric acid, and controlled fermentation is maintained by adding food-grade baker's yeast (*Saccharomyces cerevisiae*). The quantity of yeast used and the time of reaction are sufficient to substantially reduce the glucose content of the liquid egg yolks.


(c) The name of the food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is “Dried egg yolks”, or “Dried yolks”, and if the glucose content was reduced, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the name shall be followed immediately by the statement “Glucose removed for stability” or “Stabilized, glucose removed”.


(d)(1) When either of the optional anticaking ingredients specified in paragraph (a) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement “Not more than 1 percent silicon dioxide added as an anticaking agent” or “Less than 2 percent sodium silicoaluminate added as an anticaking agent”, whichever is applicable.


(2) The name of any optional ingredient used, as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, shall be listed on the principal display panel or panels of the label with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render such statement likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase.


(e) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14462, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 2883, Jan. 6, 1993]




