# ยง 878.4815   Magnetic surgical instrument system.

(a) *Identification.* A magnetic surgical instrument system is a prescription device used in laparoscopic surgical procedures consisting of several components, such as surgical instruments, and a magnetic controller. The magnetic controller is provided separately from the surgical instrument and is used outside the patient. The external magnetic controller is magnetically coupled with the internal surgical instrument(s) at the surgical site to grasp, hold, retract, mobilize, or manipulate soft tissue and organs.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) In vivo performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. Testing must demonstrate the ability of the device to grasp, hold, retract, mobilize, or manipulate soft tissue and organs.


(2) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the system performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:


(i) Magnetic field strength testing characterization to identify the distances from the magnet that are safe for patients and users with ferromagnetic implants, devices, or objects.


(ii) Ability of the internal surgical instrument(s) to be coupled, de-coupled, and re-coupled with the external magnet over the external magnet use life.


(3) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.


(4) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the device components that are patient-contacting.


(5) Methods and instructions for reprocessing reusable components must be validated.


(6) Performance data must support shelf life by demonstrating continued sterility of the device or the sterile components and device functionality over the labeled shelf life.


(7) Training must be developed and validated by human factors testing and analysis to ensure users can follow the instructions for use to allow safe use of the device.


(8) Labeling must include:


(i) Magnetic field safe zones.


(ii) Instructions for proper device use.


(iii) A screening checklist to ensure that all patients and operating staff are screened from bringing ferromagnetic implants, devices, or objects near the external magnet.


(iv) Reprocessing instructions for any reusable components.


(v) Shelf life.


(vi) Use life.



---

[N] [81 FR 64763, Sept. 21, 2016]




