# ยง 412.374   Payments to hospitals located in Puerto Rico.

(a) *FY 1998 through FY 2004.* Payments for capital-related costs to hospitals located in Puerto Rico that are paid under the prospective payment system are equal to the sum of the following:


(1) 50 percent of the Puerto Rico capital rate based on data from Puerto Rico hospitals only, which is determined in accordance with procedures for developing the Federal rate; and


(2) 50 percent of the Federal rate, as determined under ยง 412.308.


(b) *FY 2005 through FY 2016.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2004 and on or before September 30, 2016, payments for capital-related costs to hospitals located in Puerto Rico that are paid under the prospective payment system are equal to the sum of the following:


(1) 25 percent of the Puerto Rico capital rate based on data from Puerto Rico hospitals only, which is determined in accordance with procedures for developing the Federal rate; and


(2) 75 percent of the Federal rate, as determined under ยง 412.308.


(c) Effective for fiscal year 1998, the Puerto Rico capital rate described in paragraph (a) of this section in effect on September 30, 1997, is reduced by 15.68 percent. 


(d) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997 through September 30, 2002, the Puerto Rico capital rate described in paragraph (a) of this section in effect on September 30, 1997 is further reduced by 2.1 percent. 


(e) *FY 2017 and subsequent fiscal years.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2016, payments for capital-related costs to hospitals located in Puerto Rico that are paid under the prospective payment system are based on 100 percent of the Federal rate, as determined under ยง 412.308.



---

[N] [62 FR 46032, Aug. 29, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 49250, Aug. 11, 2004; 81 FR 57268, Aug. 22, 2016]




