# § 1065.230   Raw exhaust flow meter.

(a) *Application.* You may use measured raw exhaust flow, as follows:


(1) Use the actual value of calculated raw exhaust in the following cases:


(i) Multiply raw exhaust flow rate with continuously sampled concentrations.


(ii) Multiply total raw exhaust with batch sampled concentrations.


(2) In the following cases, you may use a raw exhaust flow meter signal that does not give the actual value of raw exhaust, as long as it is linearly proportional to the exhaust flow rate's actual calculated value:


(i) For feedback control of a proportional sampling system, such as a partial-flow dilution system.


(ii) For multiplying with continuously sampled gas concentrations, if the same signal is used in a chemical-balance calculation to determine work from brake-specific fuel consumption and fuel consumed.


(b) *Component requirements.* We recommend that you use a raw-exhaust flow meter that meets the specifications in Table 1 of § 1065.205. This may involve using an ultrasonic flow meter, a subsonic venturi, an averaging Pitot tube, a hot-wire anemometer, or other measurement principle. This would generally not involve a laminar flow element or a thermal-mass meter. Note that your overall system for measuring raw exhaust flow must meet the linearity verification in § 1065.307 and the calibration and verifications in § 1065.330. Any raw-exhaust meter must be designed to appropriately compensate for changes in the raw exhaust's thermodynamic, fluid, and compositional states.


(c) *Flow conditioning.* For any type of raw exhaust flow meter, condition the flow as needed to prevent wakes, eddies, circulating flows, or flow pulsations from affecting the accuracy or repeatability of the meter. You may accomplish this by using a sufficient length of straight tubing (such as a length equal to at least 10 pipe diameters) or by using specially designed tubing bends, orifice plates or straightening fins to establish a predictable velocity profile upstream of the meter.


(d) *Exhaust cooling.* You may cool raw exhaust upstream of a raw-exhaust flow meter, as long as you observe all the following provisions:


(1) Do not sample PM downstream of the cooling.


(2) If cooling causes exhaust temperatures above 202 °C to decrease to below 180 °C, do not sample NMHC downstream of the cooling for compression-ignition engines, two-stroke spark-ignition engines, or four-stroke spark-ignition engines at or below 19 kW.


(3) The cooling must not cause aqueous condensation.



---

[N] [70 FR 40516, July 13, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 23761, Apr. 28, 2014]




