# § 426.400   Procedure for filing an acceptable complaint concerning a provision (or provisions) of an LCD.

(a) *The complaint.* An aggrieved party may initiate a review of an LCD by filing a written complaint with the office designated by CMS on the Medicare Web site, *http://www.medicare.gov/coverage/static/appeals.asp.*

(b) *Timeliness of a complaint.* An LCD complaint is not considered timely unless it is filed with the office designated by CMS within— 


(1) 6 months of the issuance of a written statement from each aggrieved party's treating practitioner, in the case of aggrieved parties who choose to file an LCD challenge before receiving the service; or 


(2) 120 days of the initial denial notice, in the case of aggrieved parties who choose to file an LCD challenge after receiving the service. 


(c) *Components of a valid complaint.* A complaint must include the following: 


(1) *Beneficiary-identifying information:*

(i) Name. 


(ii) Mailing address. 


(iii) State of residence, if different from mailing address. 


(iv) Telephone number, if any. 


(v) Health Insurance Claim number, if applicable. 


(vi) E-mail address, if applicable. 


(2) *If the beneficiary has a representative,* the representative-identifying information must include the following: 


(i) Name. 


(ii) Mailing address. 


(iii) Telephone number. 


(iv) E-mail address, if any. 


(v) Copy of the written authorization to represent the beneficiary. 


(3) *Treating physician written statement.* A copy of a written statement from the treating physician that the beneficiary needs the service that is the subject of the LCD. This statement may be in the form of a written order for the service or other documentation from the beneficiary's medical record (such as progress notes or discharge summary) indicating that the beneficiary needs the service. 


(4) *LCD-identifying information:*

(i) Name of the contractor using the LCD. 


(ii) Title of LCD being challenged. 


(iii) The specific provision (or provisions) of the LCD adversely affecting the aggrieved party. 


(5) *Aggrieved party statement.* A statement from the aggrieved party explaining what service is needed and why the aggrieved party thinks that the provision(s) of the LCD is (are) not valid under the reasonableness standard. 


(6) *Clinical or scientific evidence.* (i) Copies of clinical or scientific evidence that support the complaint and an explanation for why the aggrieved party thinks that this evidence shows that the LCD is not reasonable. 


(ii) Any documents or portions of documents that include proprietary data must be marked “proprietary data,” and include a legal basis for that assertion. 


(iii) Proprietary data submitted by a manufacturer concerning a drug or device for which the manufacturer has submitted information to the Food and Drug Administration, must be considered and given substantive weight only when supported by an affidavit certifying that the submission contains true and correct copies of all data submitted by the manufacturer to the Food and Drug Administration in relation to that drug or device. 


(d) *Joint complaints*—(1) *Conditions for a joint complaint.* Two or more aggrieved parties may initiate the review of an LCD by filing a single written complaint with the ALJ if all of the following conditions are met: 


(i) Each aggrieved party named in the joint complaint has a similar medical condition or there are other bases for combining the complaints. 


(ii) Each aggrieved party named in the joint complaint is filing the complaint in regard to the same provision(s) of the same LCD. 


(2) *Components of a valid joint complaint.* A joint complaint must contain the following information: 


(i) The beneficiary-identifying information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for each aggrieved party named in the joint complaint. 


(ii) The LCD-identifying information described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(iii) The documentation described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section. 


(3) *Timeliness of a joint complaint.* Aggrieved parties, who choose to seek review of an LCD— 


(i) Before receiving the service, must file with the ALJ a joint complaint within 6 months of the written statement from each aggrieved party's treating physician. 


(ii) After receiving the service, must file with the ALJ a complaint within 120 days of each aggrieved party's initial denial notice. 




