# § 73.3539   Application for renewal of license.

(a) Unless otherwise directed by the FCC, an application for renewal of license shall be filed not later than the first day of the fourth full calendar month prior to the expiration date of the license sought to be renewed, except that applications for renewal of license of an experimental broadcast station shall be filed not later than the first day of the second full calendar month prior to the expiration date of the license sought to be renewed. If any deadline prescribed in this paragraph falls on a nonbusiness day, the cutoff shall be the close of business of the first full business day thereafter. For International Broadcast Stations, applications shall be filed electronically in the International Communications Filing System (ICFS).


(b) No application for renewal of license of any broadcast station will be considered unless there is on file with the FCC the information currently required by §§ 73.3612 through 73.3615, inclusive, for the particular class of station.


(c) Whenever the FCC regards an application for a renewal of license as essential to the proper conduct of a hearing or investigation, and specifically directs that it be filed by a date certain, such application shall be filed within the time thus specified. If the licensee fails to file such application within the prescribed time, the hearing or investigation shall proceed as if such renewal application had been received.


(d) Renewal application forms titles and numbers are listed in § 73.3500, Application and Report Forms.



---

[N] [44 FR 38495, July 2, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 28388, June 30, 1982; 49 FR 32582, Aug. 15, 1984; 86 FR 54401, Oct. 1, 2021; 88 FR 3539, Apr. 10, 2023]




