# § 665.801   Permits.

(a) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use with a valid permit under the High Seas Fishing Compliance Act if that vessel is used to fish on the high seas, as required under § 300.15 of this title.


(b) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a valid Hawaii longline limited access permit if that vessel is used:


(1) To fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear in the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago; or


(2) To land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago, western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear.


(c) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit, in accordance with § 665.816, if that vessel is used to:


(1) Fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa;


(2) Land shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa; or


(3) Transship shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa or on the high seas.


(d) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a valid Western Pacific general longline permit, American Samoa longline limited access permit, or Hawaii longline limited access permit if that vessel is used to:


(1) Fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear in the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll); or


(2) Land or transship shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll), western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear.


(e) A receiving vessel of the United States must be registered for use with a valid receiving vessel permit if that vessel is used to land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, Hawaii, Guam, CNMI, or PRIA, western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear.


(f) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use with a valid PRIA pelagic troll and handline fishing permit if that vessel is used to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using pelagic handline or trolling fishing methods in the EEZ around the PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll).


(g) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a Western Pacific squid jig fishing permit, if that vessel is more than 50 ft (15.4 m) LOA and is used to squid jig fish in EEZ waters around American Samoa, CNMI, Guam, Hawaii, or PRIA.


(h) Any required permit must be valid and on board the vessel and available for inspection by an authorized agent, except that, if the permit was issued (or registered to the vessel) during the fishing trip in question, this requirement applies only after the start of any subsequent fishing trip.


(i) A permit is valid only for the vessel for which it is registered. A permit not registered for use with a particular vessel may not be used.


(j) An application for a permit required under this section will be submitted to PIRO as described in § 665.13.


(k) General requirements governing application information, issuance, fees, expiration, replacement, transfer, alteration, display, and sanctions for permits issued under this section, as applicable, are contained in § 665.13.


(l) A Hawaii longline limited access permit may be transferred as follows:


(1) The owner of a Hawaii longline limited access permit may apply to transfer the permit:


(i) To a different person for registration for use with the same or another vessel; or


(ii) For registration for use with another U.S. vessel under the same ownership.


(2) [*Reserved*]


(m) A Hawaii longline limited access permit will not be registered for use with a vessel that has a LOA greater than 101 ft (30.8 m).


(n) Only a person eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a) may be issued or may hold (by ownership or otherwise) a Hawaii longline limited access permit.


(o) Permit appeals. Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904, any applicant for a permit or any permit owner may appeal to the Regional Administrator the granting, denial, conditioning, suspension, or transfer of a permit or requested permit under this section. To be considered by the Regional Administrator, the appeal must be in writing, must state the action(s) appealed, and the reasons therefore, and must be submitted within 30 days of the action(s) by the Regional Administrator. The appellant may request an informal hearing on the appeal.


(1) Upon receipt of an appeal authorized by this section, the Regional Administrator may request additional information. Upon receipt of sufficient information, the Regional Administrator will decide the appeal in accordance with the criteria set out in this part for qualifying for, or renewing, limited access permits. In making such decision, the Administrator will review relevant portions of the Western Pacific Pelagic FEP, to the extent such review would clarify the criteria in this part. Such decision will be based upon information relative to the application on file at NMFS and the Council and any additional information available; the summary record kept of any hearing and the hearing officer's recommended decision, if any, as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this section; and such other considerations as deemed appropriate. The Regional Administrator will notify the appellant of the decision and the reasons therefore, in writing, normally within 30 days of the receipt of sufficient information, unless additional time is needed for a hearing.


(2) If a hearing is requested, or if the Regional Administrator determines that one is appropriate, the Regional Administrator may grant an informal hearing before a hearing officer designated for that purpose. Such a hearing normally shall be held no later than 30 days following receipt of the appeal, unless the hearing officer extends the time. The appellant and, at the discretion of the hearing officer, other interested persons, may appear personally and/or be represented by counsel at the hearing and submit information and present arguments as determined appropriate by the hearing officer. Within 30 days of the last day of the hearing, the hearing officer shall recommend, in writing, a decision to the Regional Administrator.


(3) The Regional Administrator may adopt the hearing officer's recommended decision, in whole or in part, or may reject or modify it. In any event, the Regional Administrator will notify the appellant, and interested persons, if any, of the decision, and the reason(s) therefore, in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the hearing officer's recommended decision. The Regional Administrator's action shall constitute final Agency action for purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act.


(4) In the case of a timely appeal from an American Samoa longline limited access permit initial permit decision, the Regional Administrator will issue the appellant a temporary American Samoa longline limited access permit. A temporary permit will expire 20 days after the Regional Administrator's final decision on the appeal. In no event will a temporary permit be effective for longer than 60 days.


(5) With the exception of temporary permits issued under paragraph (o)(4) of this section, the Regional Administrator, for good cause, may extend any time limit prescribed in this section for a period not to exceed 30 days, either upon his/her own motion or upon written request from the appellant stating the reason(s) therefore.




