# ยง 75.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is to establish requirements for the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of sulfur dioxide (SO_2_), nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), and carbon dioxide (CO_2_) emissions, volumetric flow, and opacity data from affected units under the Acid Rain Program pursuant to sections 412 and 821 of the CAA, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q as amended by Public Law 101-549 (November 15, 1990) [the Act]. In addition, this part sets forth provisions for the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of NO_X_ mass emissions with which EPA, individual States, or groups of States may require sources to comply in order to demonstrate compliance with a NO_X_ mass emission reduction program, to the extent these provisions are adopted as requirements under such a program.


(b) *Scope.* (1) The regulations established under this part include general requirements for the installation, certification, operation, and maintenance of continuous emission or opacity monitoring systems and specific requirements for the monitoring of SO_2_ emissions, volumetric flow, NO_X_ emissions, opacity, CO_2_ emissions and SO_2_ emissions removal by qualifying Phase I technologies. Specifications for the installation and performance of continuous emission monitoring systems, certification tests and procedures, and quality assurance tests and procedures are included in appendices A and B to this part. Criteria for alternative monitoring systems and provisions to account for missing data from certified continuous emission monitoring systems or approved alternative monitoring systems are also included in the regulation.


(2) Statistical estimation procedures for missing data are included in appendix C to this part. Optional protocols for estimating SO_2_ mass emissions from gas-fired or oil-fired units and NO_X_ emissions from gas-fired peaking or oil-fired peaking units are included in appendices D and E, respectively, to this part. Requirements for recording and recordkeeping of monitoring data and for quarterly electronic reporting also are specified. Procedures for conversion of monitoring data into units of the standard are included in appendix F to this part. Procedures for the monitoring and calculation of CO_2_ emissions are included in appendix G of this part.



---

[N] [58 FR 3701, Jan. 11, 1993; 58 FR 34126, June 23, 1993; 58 FR 40747, July 30, 1993; 63 FR 57498, Oct. 27, 1999; 67 FR 40421, June 12, 2002]




