# § 1.164-8   Payments for municipal services in atomic energy communities.

(a) *General.* For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, amounts paid or accrued by any owner of real property within any community (as defined in section 21b of the Atomic Energy Community Act of 1955 (42 U.S.C. 2304)) to compensate the Atomic Energy Commission for municipal-type services (or any agent or contractor authorized by the Atomic Energy Commission to charge for such services) shall be treated as State real property taxes paid or accrued for purposes of section 164. Such amounts shall be deductible as taxes to the extent provided in section 164, §§ 1.164-1 through 1.164-7, and this section. See paragraph (b) of this section for definition of the term “Atomic Energy Commission”; paragraph (c) of this section for the definition of the term “municipal-type services”; and paragraph (d) of this section for the definition of the term “owner”.


(b) *Atomic Energy Commission.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “Atomic Energy Commission” shall mean—


(1) The Atomic Energy Commission, and


(2) Any other agency of the United States Government to which the duties and responsibilities of providing municipal-type services are delegated under the authority of section 101 of the Atomic Energy Community Act of 1955 (42 U.S.C. 2313).


(c) *Municipal-type services.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “municipal-type services” includes services usually rendered by a municipality and usually paid for by taxes. Examples of municipal-type services are police protection, fire protection, public recreational facilities, public libraries, public schools, public health, public welfare, and the maintenance of roads and streets. The term shall include sewage and refuse disposal which are maintained out of revenues derived from a general charge for municipal-type services; however, the term shall not include sewage and refuse disposal if a separate charge for such services is made. Charges assessed against local benefits of a kind tending to increase the value of the property assessed are not charges for municipal-type services. See section 164(c)(1) and § 1.164-4.


(d) *Owner.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “owner” includes a person who holds the real property under a leasehold of 40 or more years from the Atomic Energy Commission (or any agency of the United States Government to which the duties and responsibilities of leasing real property are delegated under section 101 of the Atomic Energy Community Act of 1955), and a person who has entered into a contract to purchase under section 61 of the Atomic Energy Community Act of 1955 (42 U.S.C. 2361). An assignee (either immediate or more remote) of a lessee referred to in the preceding sentence will also qualify as an owner for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Nonapplication of section 164(d).* Section 164(d) and § 1.164-6, relating to apportionment of taxes on real property between seller and purchaser, do not apply to a sale by the United States or any of its agencies of real property to which section 164(f) and this section apply. Thus, amounts paid or accrued which qualify under paragraph (a) of this section will continue to be deductible as taxes to the extent provided in this section, even in the taxable year in which the owner actually purchases the real property from the United States or any of its agencies. However, the provisions of section 164(d) and § 1.164-6 shall apply to a sale of real property to which section 164(f) and this section apply, if the seller is other than the United States or any of its agencies.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11402, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6789, 29 FR 18147, Dec. 22, 1964]




