# § 301.9100-19T   Election relating to passive investment income of electing small business corporations.

(a) *In general.* Section 3(a) of the Act of April 14, 1966 (Pub. L. 89-389) amends section 1372(e)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (relating to passive investment income of electing small business corporations). This amendment, which applies to taxable years of electing small business corporations ending after April 14, 1966, provides, in general, that an election of a small business corporation under section 1372(a) of the Code shall not terminate for a taxable year of the corporation in which it has gross receipts more than 20 percent of which is passive investment income, if—


(1) Such taxable year is the first taxable year in which the corporation commenced the active conduct of any trade or business or the next succeeding taxable year; and


(2) The amount of passive investment income for such taxable year is less than $3,000.


(b) *Application of amendment to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966*—(1) *In general.* An election by a corporation under section 1372(a) of the Code shall not be treated as terminated under section 1372(e)(5) of the Code for any taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966, if—


(i) Such taxable year is the first taxable year in which the corporation commenced the active conduct of any trade or business, or the next succeeding taxable year;


(ii) The amount of passive investment income for such taxable year is less than $3,000;


(iii) The corporation makes an election, within such time and in such manner as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph; and


(iv) All persons (or their personal representatives) who were shareholders of the corporation at any time during any taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966, consent to such election, within such time and in such manner as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.


(2) *Election by corporation.* An election by a corporation pursuant to subparagraph (1)(iii) of this paragraph shall be filed with the district director with whom the corporation was required to file its return of income (see section 6037 of the Code and the regulations thereunder) for the earliest of its taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966, for which an election terminated under section 1372(e)(5) of the Code. Such election shall be filed within 3 years after the date prescribed by law (not including any extension thereof) on which such return was required to be filed, or within 90 days from February 28, 1967, whichever is later. (However, credit or refund of any overpayment attributable to the election may not be allowed or made if claim therefor has not been filed within the time prescribed by law; and, see subparagraph (3) of this paragraph providing that the statutory period for assessment of certain deficiencies against shareholders may not have expired on the date the election and consents under this paragraph are filed.) Such election shall be in the form of a statement, signed by a person authorized to sign the corporation's return of income, which shall expressly provide that the corporation elects the application of section 1372(e)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended by Pub. L. 89-389, with respect to its taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966. The statement shall set forth the name, address, and employer identification number of the corporation; the internal revenue officer with whom the corporation's returns of income have been filed for each of its taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962; the names and addresses of all persons who have been shareholders of the corporation at any time during each of its taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962; computations showing the amount of the corporation's overpayment or deficiency of tax for any taxable year which is attributable to the election under this paragraph; and computations showing each shareholder's portion of the undistributed taxable income (determined as provided in section 1373(b) of the Code) or net operating loss (determined as provided in section 1374(c) of the Code) for each taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, unless such computations were made on the corporation's returns of income for each of such years. In order for an election under this paragraph to be effective, it must be accompanied by the consents of certain shareholders as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.


(3) *Consents by shareholders.* An election by a corporation pursuant to this paragraph must be accompanied by the consent of each person who was a shareholder of the corporation at any time during any taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966. This includes persons who may not be shareholders on the date the election is filed. Where stock of the corporation was owned by a husband and wife as community property (or the income from which was community property), or was owned by tenants in common, joint tenants, or tenants by the entirety, each person who had a community interest in such stock and each tenant in common, joint tenant, and tenant by the entirety must consent to the election. The consent of a minor shall be made by the minor or by his legal guardian, or by his natural guardian if no legal guardian has been appointed. The consent of an estate shall be made by the executor or administrator thereof. If a person who is required to file a consent under this subparagraph is deceased, the executor or administrator of such person's estate, or other person charged with the property of such person, shall file the required consent. The consent of each shareholder shall be in the form of a statement signed by the shareholder in which he states that he consents to the election by the corporation under this paragraph. Each of such statements shall set forth the name and address of the corporation and of the shareholder; the number of shares of stock of the corporation owned by such shareholder at any time during any taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962; the date (or dates) on which such stock was acquired, and, if disposed of, the date (or dates) of disposition; and the internal revenue officer with whom the shareholder's income tax returns have been filed for each of such taxable years in which he owned any such stock. In addition, a consent under this paragraph is not effective unless (i) the statutory period for assessment of any deficiency for each taxable year for which there would be a deficiency attributable to the election and consents under this paragraph has not expired on the date the election and consents under this paragraph are filed, and (ii) there is included in, or attached to, the statement of consent a written consent that the statutory period for assessment of any deficiency for any taxable year (to the extent that such deficiency is attributable to the election and consents under this paragraph) shall not expire before the expiration of 1 year after the date the election and consents under this paragraph are filed. Each of the statements of consent under this subparagraph shall be filed with the corporation's election under this paragraph. The consents of all shareholders may be incorporated in one statement.


(4) *Election and consents are binding.* The election and consents under this paragraph are binding and may not be withdrawn.


(c) *New shareholders.* Section 1372(e)(1) of the Code provides that an election by a corporation under section 1372(a) of the Code shall terminate if certain new shareholders do not consent to such election within the time prescribed by regulations. New shareholders of a corporation which makes an election under paragraph (b) of this section may not have consented to the corporation's election under section 1372(a) of the Code within such prescribed time as a result of a termination of such election under section 1372(e)(5) of the Code prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 89-389. Therefore, notwithstanding the provisions of section 1372(e)(1) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, an election by a corporation under section 1372(a) of the Code shall not be treated as terminated for the failure of any new shareholder to file a timely consent under section 1372(e)(1) of the Code, for any of the taxable years of the corporation between and including the earliest taxable year determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, and the taxable year during which the corporation files an election under paragraph (b) of this section, if—


(1) The corporation's election under section 1372(a) of the Code would have terminated for a taxable year under section 1372(e)(5) of the Code in the event it had not made an election under paragraph (b) of this section, and


(2) A proper consent under section 1372(e)(1) of the Code is filed by such new shareholder with the corporation's election under paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 6912, 32 FR 3343, Feb. 28, 1967. Redesignated by T.D. 8435, 57 FR 43896, Sept. 23, 1992]




