# § 745.1   Advance notification and annual report of all exports of Schedule 1 chemicals to other States Parties.

Pursuant to the Convention, the United States is required to notify the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) not less than 30 days in advance of every export of a Schedule 1 chemical, in any quantity, to another State Party. In addition, the United States is required to provide a report of all exports of Schedule 1 chemicals to other States Parties during each calendar year. If you plan to export any quantity of a Schedule 1 chemical controlled under the EAR and licensed by the Department of Commerce or controlled under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and licensed by the Department of State, you are required under this section to notify the Department of Commerce in advance of this export. You are also required to provide an annual report of exports that actually occurred during the previous calendar year. The United States will transmit the advance notifications and an aggregate annual report to the OPCW of exports of Schedule 1 chemicals from the United States. Note that the notification and annual report requirements of this section do not relieve the exporter of any requirement to obtain a license from the Department of Commerce for the export of Schedule 1 chemicals subject to the EAR or from the Department of State for the export of Schedule 1 chemicals subject to the ITAR.


(a) *Advance notification of exports.* You must notify BIS at least 45 calendar days prior to exporting any quantity of a Schedule 1 chemical listed in supplement no. 1 to this part to another State Party, except that notifications for exports of 5 milligrams or less of saxitoxin (for medical or diagnostic purposes only) must be submitted to BIS at least 3 calendar days prior to the date of export (see 15 CFR 712.6(a)). This is in addition to the requirement to obtain an export license under the EAR for chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350 or 1C351 for any reason for control, or from the Department of State for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled under the ITAR. Note that such notifications may be sent to BIS prior to or after submission of a license application to BIS for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled subject to the EAR and under ECCNs 1C350 or 1C351 or to the Department of State for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled on the ITAR. Such notices must be submitted separately from license applications.


(1) Such notification should be on company letterhead or must clearly identify the reporting entity by name of company, complete address, name of contact person and telephone and fax numbers, along with the following information:


(i) Common Chemical Name;


(ii) Structural formula of the chemical;


(iii) Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) Registry Number;


(iv) Quantity involved in grams;


(v) Planned date of export;


(vi) Purpose (end-use) of export;


(vii) Name of recipient;


(viii) Complete street address of recipient;


(ix) Export license or control number, if known; and


(x) Company identification number, once assigned by BIS.


(2) Send the notification either by fax to (202) 482-1731 or by mail or courier delivery to the following address: Information Technology Team, Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Attn: “Advance Notification of Schedule 1 Chemical Export”.


(3) Upon receipt of the notification, BIS will inform the exporter of the earliest date the shipment may occur under the notification procedure. To export the Schedule 1 chemical, the exporter must have applied for and been granted a license (see §§ 742.2 and 742.18 of the EAR, or the ITAR at 22 CFR part 121.


(b) *Annual report of exports.* (1) You must report all exports of any quantity of a Schedule 1 chemical to another State Party during the previous calendar year, starting with exports taking place during calendar year 1997. Reports for exports during calendar years 1997 and 1998 are due to the Department of Commerce August 16, 1999. Thereafter, annual reports of exports are due on February 13 of the following calendar year. The report should be on company letterhead or must clearly identify the reporting entity by name of company, complete address, name of contact person and telephone and fax numbers along with the following information for *each* export:


(i) Common Chemical Name;


(ii) Structural formula of the chemical;


(iii) CAS Registry Number;


(iv) Quantity involved in grams;


(v) Date of export;


(vi) Export license number;


(vii) Purpose (end-use) of export;


(viii) Name of recipient;


(ix) Complete address of recipient, including street address, city and country; and (x) Company identification number, once assigned by BIS.


(2) The report must be signed by a responsible party, certifying that the information provided in the annual report is, to the best of his/her knowledge and belief, true and complete.


(3) Send the report either by fax to (202) 482-1731 or by mail or courier delivery to the following address: Information Technology Team, Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Attn: “Annual Report of Schedule 1 Chemical Export”.



---

[N] [64 FR 27143, May 18, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 28909, May 28, 1999; 65 FR 12923, Mar. 10, 2000; 73 FR 38910, July 8, 2008; 83 FR 13855, Apr. 2, 2018]




