# § 63.7792   What fenceline monitoring requirements must I meet?

The owner or operator must conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) Beginning either 1 year after promulgation of the test method for fenceline sampling of metals applicable to this subpart or April 3, 2026 whichever is later, the owner or operator must conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with the method and paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must monitor for total chromium.


(2) The owner or operator must use a sampling period and sampling frequency as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) *Sampling period.* A 24-hour sampling period must be used. A sampling period is defined as the period during active collection of a sample and does not include the time required to analyze the sample.


(ii) *Sampling frequency.* The frequency of sample collection must be samples at least every 6 calendar days, such that the beginning of each sampling period begins no greater than approximately 144 hours (±12 hours) from the end of the previous sample.


(iii) *Sunset provision.* When the annual rolling average Δc remains less than 0.05 µg/m
3 for 24 months in succession, a test waiver may be requested from the Administrator to remove or reduce fenceline sampling requirements. If the annual rolling average Δc exceeds 0.05µg/m
3, the determination of 24 consecutive annual average Δc months restarts.


(3) The owner or operator must determine sample locations in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The monitoring perimeter must be located between the property boundary and the process unit(s), such that the monitoring perimeter encompasses all potential sources of the target analyte(s) specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(ii) The owner or operator must place a minimum of 4 samplers around the monitoring perimeter.


(iii) To determine sampling locations, measure the length of the monitoring perimeter.


(A) Locate the point downwind of the prevailing wind direction.


(B) Divide the monitoring perimeter equally into 4 evenly spaced sampling points, with one located in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section.


(4) The owner or operator must follow the procedures in of the fenceline metals test method to determine the detection limit of the target analyte(s) and requirements for quality assurance samples.


(b) The owner or operator must collect and record meteorological data according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) If monitoring is conducted under paragraph (b) of this section, if a near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, or if an alternative test method is used that provides time-resolved measurements, the owner or operator must use an on-site meteorological station in accordance with the metals fenceline test method applicable to this subpart. Collect and record hourly average meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction and calculate daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta.


(2) For cases other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must collect and record sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure using either an on-site meteorological station in accordance with the metals fenceline test method of this part or, alternatively, using data from a National Weather Service (NWS) meteorological station provided the NWS meteorological station is within 40 kilometers (25 miles) of the facility.


(3) If an on-site meteorological station is used, the owner or operator must follow the calibration and standardization procedures for meteorological measurements in EPA-454/B-08-002 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(c) Within 45 days of completion of each sampling period, the owner or operator must determine whether the results are above or below the action level as follows.


(1) The owner or operator must determine the facility impact on the concentration (Δc) for each sampling period according to either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Except when near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine the highest and lowest sample results individually from the sample pool and calculate the Δc as the difference in these concentrations. Co-located samples must be averaged together for the purposes of determining the concentration at a particular sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc. The owner or operator must adhere to the following procedures when one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for a particular compound:


(A) If the lowest detected value is below detection, the owner or operator must use zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.


(B) If all sample results are below the method detection limit, the owner or operator must use the highest method detection limit for the sample set as the highest sample result and zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.


(ii) When near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator must determine Δc using the calculation protocols outlined in the approved site-specific monitoring plan and in paragraph (g) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator must calculate the annual average Δc based on the average of the Δc values for the 61 most recent sampling periods. The owner or operator must update this annual average value after receiving the results of each subsequent sampling period.


(3) The action level for chromium is 0.1 µg/m
3. If the annual average Δc value (rounded to 1 significant figure) is greater than the action level, the concentration is above the action level, and the owner or operator must conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) Once any action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been exceeded, the owner or operator must take the following actions to bring the annual average Δc back below the action level(s).


(1) Within 5 days of updating the annual average value as required in (c)(2) and determining that any action level in paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been exceeded (*i.e.,* in no case longer than 50 days after completion of the sampling period), the owner or operator must initiate a root cause analysis to determine appropriate corrective action. A root cause analysis is an assessment conducted through a process of investigation to determine the primary underlying cause and all other contributing causes to an exceedance of the action level(s) set forth in paragraph (c)(3).


(2) The initial root cause analysis may include, but is not limited to:


(i) Visual inspection to determine the cause of the high emissions.


(ii) Operator knowledge of process changes (*e.g.,* a malfunction or release event).


(3) If the initial root cause cannot be identified using the type of techniques described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator must employ more frequent sampling and analysis to determine the root cause of the exceedance.


(i) The owner or operator may first employ additional monitoring points or more frequent sampling to determine the root cause of the exceedance.


(ii) If the owner or operator has not determined the root cause of the exceedance within 30 days of determining that the action level has been exceeded, the owner or operator must employ the appropriate more time resolute sampling techniques (*e.g.,* continuous multi metals monitors) to locate the cause of the exceedance. If the root cause is not identified after 28 days, either the more time resolute monitor must be relocated or an additional more time resolute monitor must be added. Relocation or addition of extra monitors must continue after each 28-day period of nonidentification until the owner or operator can identify the root cause of the exceedance.


(4) If the underlying primary and other contributing causes of the exceedance are deemed to be under the control of the owner or operator, the owner or operator must take appropriate corrective action as expeditiously as possible to bring annual average fenceline concentrations back below the action level(s) set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(3) of this section. At a minimum, the corrective actions taken must address the underlying primary and other contributing cause(s) determined in the root cause analysis to prevent future exceedances from the same underlying cause(s).


(5) The root cause analysis must be completed and initial corrective actions taken no later than 45 days after determining there is an exceedance of an action level.


(e) An owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if the conditions in either paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section are met. The corrective action plan must describe the corrective action(s) completed to date, additional measures that the owner or operator proposes to employ to expeditiously reduce annual average fenceline concentrations below the action level set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and a schedule for completion of these measures. The corrective action plan must identify actions to address the underlying primary and other contributing cause(s) determined in the root cause analysis to prevent future exceedances from the same underlying cause(s). The corrective action plan does not need to be approved by the Administrator. However, if upon review, the Administrator disagrees with the additional measures outlined in the plan, the owner or operator must revise and resubmit the plan within 7 calendar days of receiving comments from the Administrator.


(1) The owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if, upon completion of the root cause analysis and initial corrective actions required in paragraph (d) of this section, the Δc value for the next sampling period, for which the sampling start time begins after the completion of the initial corrective actions, is greater than 0.1 µg/m
3. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the sampling period following the completion of the initial corrective action is greater than 0.1 µg/m
3.


(2) The owner or operator must develop a corrective action plan if complete implementation of all corrective measures identified in the root cause analysis required by paragraph (d) of this section will require more than 45 days. The owner or operator must submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator no later than 60 days following the completion of the root cause analysis required in paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) An owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a site-specific monitoring plan to account for offsite upwind sources according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must prepare and submit a site-specific monitoring plan and receive approval of the site-specific monitoring plan prior to using the near-field source alternative calculation for determining Δc provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The site-specific monitoring plan must include, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The procedures in section 12 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part are not required, but may be used, if applicable, when determining near-field source contributions.


(i) Identification of the near-field source or sources.


(ii) Location of the additional monitoring stations that must be used to determine the uniform background concentration and the near-field source concentration contribution. Modeling may not be used in lieu of monitoring to identify uniform background concentration and near-field sources.


(iii) Identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source. If more than one near-field source is present, identify the near-field source or sources that are expected to contribute to the concentration at that monitoring location.


(iv) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction including the treatment of invalid data, data below detection limits, and data collected during calm wind periods; and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location.


(v) A detailed description of the measurement technique, measurement location(s), the standard operation procedure, measurement frequency, recording frequency, measurement detection limit, and data quality indicators to ensure accuracy, precision, and validity of the data.


(2) When an approved site-specific monitoring plan is used, the owner or operator must determine Δc for comparison with the action level using the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For each monitoring location, calculate Δc_i_ using the following equation.


(ii) When one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit, adhere to the following procedures:


(A) If the concentration at the monitoring location(s) used to determine the near-field source contributing concentration is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator must use zero for the monitoring location concentration when calculating NFS_i_ for that monitoring period.


(B) If a fenceline monitoring location sample result is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator must use the method detection limit as the sample result.


(iii) Determine Δc for the monitoring period as the maximum value of Δc_i_ from all of the fenceline monitoring locations for that monitoring period.


(3) The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted and approved as described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.


(ii) The site-specific monitoring plan must also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Integrated Iron and Steel Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to *fencelineplan@epa.gov.*

(iii) The Administrator will approve or disapprove the plan in 90 days. The plan is considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 90-day period begins when the Administrator receives the plan.


(iv) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the site-specific monitoring plan and disapproves the plan in writing, the owner or operator may revise and resubmit the site-specific monitoring plan following the requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. The 90-day period starts over with the resubmission of the revised monitoring plan.


(4) The approval by the Administrator of a site-specific monitoring plan will be based on the completeness, accuracy, and reasonableness of the request for a site-specific monitoring plan. Factors that the Administrator will consider in reviewing the request for a site-specific monitoring plan include, but are not limited to, those described in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The identification of the near-field source or sources and evidence of how the sources impact the fenceline concentrations.


(ii) The monitoring location selected to determine the uniform background concentration or an indication that no uniform background concentration monitor will be used.


(iii) The location(s) selected for additional monitoring to determine the near-field source concentration contribution.


(iv) The identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source or sources.


(v) The appropriateness of the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location, including the handling of invalid data, data below the detection limit, and data during calm periods.


(vi) If more frequent monitoring is proposed, the adequacy of the description of and rationale for the measurement technique, measurement location(s), the standard operation procedure, measurement frequency, recording frequency, measurement detection limit, and data quality indicators to ensure accuracy, precision, and validity of the data.


(g) The owner or operator must comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.7841 and § 63.7842.


(1) As outlined in § 63.7(f), the owner or operator may submit a request for an alternative test method. At a minimum, the request must follow the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) The alternative method may be used in lieu of all or a partial number of the sampling locations required under paragraph (a) of this section.


(ii) The alternative method must be validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of this part or contain performance-based procedures and indicators to ensure self-validation.


(iii) The method detection limit must nominally be at least three times below the action level. The alternate test method must describe the procedures used to provide field verification of the detection limit.


(iv) If the alternative test method will be used to replace some or all samplers required under paragraph (a) of this section, the spatial coverage must be equal to or better than the spatial coverage provided under paragraph (a).


(v) For alternative test methods capable of real time measurements (less than a 5-minute sampling and analysis cycle), the alternative test method may allow for elimination of data points corresponding to outside emission sources for purpose of calculation of the high point for the two week average. The alternative test method approach must have wind speed, direction, and stability class of the same time resolution and within the footprint of the instrument.


(vi) For purposes of averaging data points to determine the Δc for the individual sampling period, all results measured under the method detection limit must use the method detection limit. For purposes of averaging data points for the individual sampling period low sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use zero.







---

[N] [89 FR 23320, Apr. 3, 2024]










