# ยง 1.1053-1   Property acquired before March 1, 1913.

(a) *Basis for determining gain.* In the case of property acquired before March 1, 1913, the basis as of March 1, 1913, for determining gain is the cost or other basis, adjusted as provided in section 1016 and other applicable provisions of chapter 1 of the Code, or its fair market value as of March 1, 1913, whichever is greater.


(b) *Basis for determining loss.* In the case of property acquired before March 1, 1913, the basis as of March 1, 1913, for determining loss is the basis determined in accordance with part II (section 1011 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code, or other applicable provisions of chapter 1 of the Code, without reference to the fair market value as of March 1, 1913.


(c) *Example.* The application of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(d) *Fair market value.* The determination of the fair market value of property on March 1, 1913, is generally a question of fact and shall be established by competent evidence. In determining the fair market value of stock or other securities, due regard shall be given to the fair market value of the corporate assets as of such date, and other pertinent factors. In the case of property traded in on public exchanges, actual sales on or near the basic date afford evidence of value. In general, the fair market value of a block or aggregate of a particular kind of property is not to be determined by a forced-sale price, or by an estimate of what a whole block or aggregate would bring if placed upon the market at one and the same time. In such a case the value should be determined by ascertaining as the basis the fair market value of each unit of the property. All relevant facts and elements of value as of the basic date should be considered in each case.




