# § 868.73   Corrected certificates.

(a) *General.* The accuracy of the statements and information shown on official certificates must be verified by the individual whose name or signature, or both, is shown on the official certificate or by the authorized agent who affixed the name or signature, or both. Errors found during this process shall be corrected according to this section.


(b) *Who may correct.* Only official personnel or their authorized agents may make corrections, erasures, additions, or other changes to official certificates.


(c) *Corrections prior to issuance.* No corrections, erasures, additions, or other changes shall be made which involve identification, quality, or quantity. If such errors are found, a new official certificate shall be prepared and issued and the incorrect certificate marked “Void.” Otherwise, errors may be corrected provided that—


(1) The corrections are neat and legible;


(2) Each correction is initialed by the individual who corrects the certificate; and


(3) The corrections and initials are shown on the original and all copies.


(d) *Corrections after issuance*—(1) *General.* If errors are found on an official certificate at any time up to a maximum of 1 year after issuance, the errors shall be corrected by obtaining the incorrect certificate and replacing it with a corrected certificate. When the incorrect certificate cannot be obtained, a corrected certificate can be issued superseding the incorrect one.


(2) *Certification requirements.* The same statements and information, including permissive statements, that were shown on the incorrect certificate, along with the correct statement or information, shall be shown on the corrected certificate. According to this section and the instructions, corrected certificates shall show—


(i) The terms “Corrected Original” and “Corrected Copy,”


(ii) A statement identifying the superseded certificate and the corrections,


(iii) A statement indicating the superseded certificate was not surrendered when the incorrect certificate was not submitted; and


(iv) A new serial number.


(e) *Limitations.* Corrected certificates cannot be issued for a certificate that has been superseded by another certificate or on the basis of a subsequent analysis for quality.




