# ยง 706.3   Definitions.

*Act.* Means the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Pub. L. 95-87.


*Coal mining operation.* Means the business of developing, producing, preparing or loading bituminous coal, subbituminous coal, anthracite or lignite or of reclaiming the areas upon which such activities occur.


*Direct financial interest.* Means ownership or part ownership by an employee of lands, stocks, bonds, debentures, warrants, partnership shares, or other holdings and also means any other arrangement where the employee may benefit from his or her holding in or salary from coal mining operations. Direct financial interests include employment, pensions, creditor, real property and other financial relationships.


*Director.* Means the Director or Acting Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, U.S. Department of the Interior.


*Employee.* Means any person employed by the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement within the U.S. Department of the Interior and any other person employed by the Federal Government who performs functions or duties under the Act without regard to the duration or nature of his or her appointment.


*Indirect financial interest.* Means the same financial relationships as for direct ownership, but where the employee reaps the benefits of such interests, including interests held by his or her spouse, minor child and other relatives, including inlaws, residing in the employee's home. The employee will not be deemed to have an indirect financial interest if there is no relationship between the employee's functions or duties and the coal mining operation in which the spouse, minor children or other resident relatives hold a financial interest.


*Office.* Means the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, U.S. Department of the Interior.


*Other Federal agency.* Means any executive Federal agency or office or part thereof not a part of the U.S. Department of the Interior, and includes but is not limited to, the following agencies: The Department of Agriculture, the Department of Justice, the Corps of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Council on Environmental Quality and the Energy Research and Development Administration.


*Performing any function or duty under this act.* Means those decisions or actions, which if performed or not performed by an employee, affect the programs under the Act.


*Prohibited financial interest.* Means any direct or indirect financial interest in any coal mining operation.


*Secretary.* Means the Secretary of the Interior.




