# § 68.175   Prevention program/Program 3.

(a) For each Program 3 process, the owner or operator shall provide the information indicated in paragraphs (b) through (p) of this section. If the same information applies to more than one covered process, the owner or operator may provide the information only once, but shall indicate to which processes the information applies. 


(b) The five- or six-digit NAICS code that most closely corresponds to the process.


(c) The name(s) of the substance(s) covered. 


(d) The date on which the safety information was last reviewed or revised. 


(e) The date of completion of the most recent PHA or update and the technique used;


(1) The expected date of completion of any changes resulting from the PHA;


(2) Major hazards identified; 


(3) Process controls in use; 


(4) Mitigation systems in use; 


(5) Monitoring and detection systems in use;


(6) Changes since the last PHA;


(7) Inherently safer technology or design measures implemented since the last PHA, if any, and the technology category (substitution, minimization, simplification and/or moderation);


(8) Recommendations declined from natural hazard, power loss, and siting hazard evaluations and justifications; and


(9) Recommendations declined from safety gaps between codes, standards, or practices to which the process was designed and constructed and the most current version of applicable codes, standards, or practices.




(f) The date of the most recent review or revision of operating procedures. 


(g) The date of the most recent review or revision of training programs; 


(1) The type of training provided—classroom, classroom plus on the job, on the job; and 


(2) The type of competency testing used. 


(h) The date of the most recent review or revision of maintenance procedures and the date of the most recent equipment inspection or test and the equipment inspected or tested. 


(i) The date of the most recent change that triggered management of change procedures and the date of the most recent review or revision of management of change procedures. 


(j) The date of the most recent pre-startup review. 


(k) The date of the most recent compliance audit; the expected date of completion of any changes resulting from the compliance audit and identification of whether the most recent compliance audit was a third-party audit, pursuant to §§ 68.79 and 68.80; and findings declined from third-party compliance audits and justifications.




(l) The completion date of the most recent incident investigation and the expected date of completion of any changes resulting from the investigation.


(m) The date of the most recent review or revision of employee participation plans; 


(n) The date of the most recent review or revision of hot work permit procedures; 


(o) The date of the most recent review or revision of contractor safety procedures; and 


(p) The date of the most recent evaluation of contractor safety performance. 



---

[N] [61 FR 31726, June 20, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 980, Jan. 6, 1999; 82 FR 4704, Jan. 13, 2017; 84 FR 69915, Dec. 19, 2019; 89 FR 17692, Mar. 11, 2024]








