# § 358.350   Labeling of ingrown toenail relief drug products.

(a) *Statement of identity.* The labeling of the product contains the established name of the product, if any, and identifies the product as an “ingrown toenail relief product” or as an “ingrown toenail discomfort reliever.”


(b) *Indications.* The labeling of the product states, under the heading “Use,” the following: “for temporary relief of” [select one or both of the following: ‘pain’ or ‘discomfort’] “from ingrown toenails”. Other truthful and nonmisleading statements, describing only the use that has been established and listed in this paragraph (b), may also be used, as provided in § 330.1(c)(2) of this chapter, subject to the provisions of section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) relating to misbranding and the prohibition in section 301(d) of the act against the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of unapproved new drugs in violation of section 505(a) of the act.


(c) *Warnings.* The labeling of the product contains the following warnings under the heading “Warnings”:


(1) “For external use only” in accord with § 201.66(c)(5)(i) of this chapter.


(2) “Do not use [bullet] 
1 on open sores”.


(3) “Ask a doctor before use if you have [bullet] diabetes [bullet] poor circulation [bullet] gout”.


(4) “When using this product [bullet] use with a retainer ring”.


(5) “Stop use and ask a doctor if [bullet] redness or swelling of your toe increases [bullet] discharge is present around the nail [bullet] symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days”.


(d) *Directions.* The labeling of the product contains the following statements under the heading “Directions”:


(1) “[Bullet] adults and children 12 years and over:”


(i) “[Bullet] wash the affected area and dry thoroughly [bullet] place retainer ring on toe with slot over the area where the ingrown nail and the skin meet. Smooth ring down firmly. [bullet] apply enough gel product to fill the slot in the ring [bullet] place round center section of bandage strip directly over the gel-filled ring to seal the gel in place. Smooth ends of bandage strip around toes.”


(ii) “[Bullet] repeat twice daily (morning and night) for up to 7 days until discomfort is relieved or until the nail can be lifted out of the nail groove and easily trimmed”.


(2) “[Bullet] children under 12 years: ask a doctor”.




