# ยง 82.260   Definitions.

*Halon-containing equipment* means equipment used to store, transfer, and/or disperse halon.


*Disposal of halon* means the process leading to and including discarding of halon from halon-containing equipment.


*Disposal of halon-containing equipment* means the process leading to and including:


(1) The discharge, deposit, dumping or placing of any discarded halon-containing equipment into or on any land or water;


(2) The disassembly of any halon-containing equipment for discharge, deposit, or dumping or placing of its discarded component parts into or on any land or water; or


(3) The disassembly of any halon-containing equipment for reuse of its component parts.


*Halon* means any of the Class I, Group II substances listed in subpart A, appendix A of 40 CFR part 82. This group consists of the three halogenated hydrocarbons known as Halon 1211, Halon 1301, and Halon 2402, and all isomers of these chemicals.


*Halon product* means any mixture or combination of substances that contains only one halon (e.g., Halon 1301 plus dinitrogen gas (N_2_))


*Halon blend* means any mixture or combination of substances that contains two or more halons.


*Manufacturer* means any person engaged in the direct manufacture of halon, halon blends or halon-containing equipment.


*Person* means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe, and any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States, and any officer, agent, or employee thereof.


*Technician* means any person who performs testing, maintenance, service, or repair that could reasonably be expected to release halons from equipment into the atmosphere. Technician also means any person who performs disposal of equipment that could reasonably be expected to release halons from the equipment into the atmosphere. Technician includes but is not limited to installers, contractor employees, in-house service personnel, and in some cases, owners.




