# § 1.861-3   Dividends and income inclusions under sections 951, 951A, and 1293 and associated section 78 dividends.

(a) *General*—(1) *Dividends included in gross income.* Gross income from sources within the United States includes a dividend described in subparagraph (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this paragraph. For purposes of subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this paragraph, the term “dividend” shall have the same meaning as set forth in section 316 and the regulations thereunder. See subparagraph (5) of this paragraph for special rules with respect to certain dividends from a DISC or former DISC. See also paragraph (a)(6) of this section for special rules concerning substitute dividend payments received pursuant to a securities lending transaction.


(2) *Dividend from a domestic corporation.* A dividend described in this paragraph (a)(2) is a dividend from a domestic corporation other than a corporation that has an election in effect under section 936. See paragraph (a)(5) of this section for the treatment of certain dividends from a DISC or former DISC.


(3) *Dividend from a foreign corporation*—(i) *In general.* (*a*) A dividend described in this subparagraph is a dividend from a foreign corporation (other than a dividend to which subparagraph (4) of this paragraph applies) unless less than 50 percent of the gross income from all sources of such foreign corporation for the 3-year period ending with the close of its taxable year preceding the taxable year in which occurs the declaration of such dividend (or for such part of such period as the corporation has been in existence) was effectively connected with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States, as determined under section 864(c) and § 1.864-3. Thus, no portion of a dividend from a foreign corporation shall be treated as income from sources within the United States under section 861(a)(2)(B) if less than 50 percent of the gross income of such foreign corporation from all sources for such 3-year period (or part thereof) was effectively connected with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States or if such foreign corporation had gross income for such 3-year period (or part thereof) but none was effectively connected with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States.


(*b*) If 50 percent or more of the gross income from all sources of such foreign corporation for such 3-year period (or part thereof) was effectively connected with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States, the amount of the dividend which is to be treated as income from sources within the United States under section 861(a)(2)(B) shall be the amount that bears the same ratio to such dividend as the gross income of such foreign corporation for such 3-year period (or part thereof) which was effectively connected with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States bears to its gross income from all sources for such period.


(*c*) For purposes of this subdivision (i), the gross income which is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States includes the gross income which, pursuant to section 882 (d) or (e), is treated as income which is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States.


(ii) *Rule applicable in applying limitation on amount of foreign tax credit.* For purposes of determining under section 904 the limitation upon the amount of the foreign tax credit—


(*a*) So much of a dividend from a foreign corporation as exceeds (and only to the extent it so exceeds) the amount which is 100/85ths of the amount of the deduction allowable under section 245(a) in respect of such dividend, plus


(*b*) An amount which bears the same proportion to any section 78 dividend to which the dividend from the foreign corporation gives rise as the amount of the excess determined under (*a*) of this subdivision bears to the total amount of the dividend from the foreign corporation, shall, notwithstanding subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, be treated as income from sources without the United States. This subdivision applies to a dividend for which no dividends-received deduction is allowed under section 245 or for which the 85 percent dividends-received deduction is allowed under section 245(a) but does not apply to a dividend for which a deduction is allowable under section 245(b). All of a dividend for which the 100 percent dividends-received deduction is allowed under section 245(b) shall be treated as income from sources within the United States for purposes of determining under section 904 the limitation upon the amount of the foreign tax credit. If the amount of a distribution of property other than money (constituting a dividend under section 316) is determined by applying section 301(b)(1)(C), such amount must be used as the dividend for purposes of applying (*a*) of this subdivision even though the amount used for purposes of section 245(a) is determined by applying section 301(b)(1)(D). In making determinations under this subdivision, a dividend (other than a section 78 dividend referred to in (*b*) of this subdivision) shall be determined without regard to section 78.


(iii) *Illustrations.* The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:


(4) *Dividend from a foreign corporation succeeding to earnings of a domestic corporation.* A dividend described in this subparagraph is a dividend from a foreign corporation, if such dividend is received by a corporation after December 31, 1959, but only to the extent that such dividend is treated by such recipient corporation under the provisions of § 1.243-3 as a dividend from a domestic corporation subject to taxation under chapter 1 of the Code. To the extent that this subparagraph applies to a dividend received from a foreign corporation, subparagraph (3) of this paragraph shall not apply to such dividend.


(5) *Certain dividends from a DISC or former DISC*—(i) *General rule.* A dividend described in this subparagraph is a dividend from a corporation that is a DISC or former DISC (as defined in section 992(a)) other than a dividend that—


(*a*) Is deemed paid by a DISC, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, under section 995(b)(1)(D) as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, under section 995(b)(1) (D), (E), and (F) to the extent provided in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph or


(*b*) Reduces under § 1.996-3(b)(3) accumulated DISC income (as defined in subdivision (ii)(*b*) of this subparagraph) to the extend provided in subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph.


(ii) *Definitions.* For purposes of this subparagraph, the term—


(*a*) “Dividend from” means any amount actually distributed which is a dividend within the meaning of section 316 (including distributions to meet qualification requirements under section 992(c)) and any amount treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend pursuant to section 995(b) (relating to deemed distributions in qualified years or upon disqualification) or included in gross income as a dividend pursuant to section 995(c) (relating to gain on certain dispositions of stock in a DISC or former DISC), and


(*b*) “Accumulated DISC income” means the amount of accumulated DISC income as of the close of the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which the dividend was made increased by the amount of DISC income for the taxable year in which the dividend was made (as determined under § 1.996-3(b)(2)).


(*c*) “Nonqualified export taxable income” means the taxable income of a DISC from any transaction which gives rise to gross receipts (as defined in § 1.993-6) which are not qualified export receipts (as defined in § 1.993-1) other than a transaction giving rise to gain described in section 995(b)(1) (B) or (C).


(iii) *Determination of source of income for deemed distributions, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, under section 995(b)(1)(D) as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, under section 995(b)(1) (D), (E), and (F). (a*) If for its taxable year a DISC does not have any nonqualified export taxable income, then for such year the entire amount treated, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, under section 995(b)(1)(D) as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, under section 995(b)(1) (D), (E), and (F) as a deemed distribution taxable as a dividend will be treated as gross income from sources without the United States.


(*b*) If for its taxable year a DISC has any nonqualified export taxable income, then for such year the portion of the amount treated, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, under section 995(b)(1)(D) as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, under section 995(b)(1) (D), (E), and (F) as a deemed distribution taxable as a dividend that will be treated as income from sources within the United States shall be equal to the amount of such nonqualified export taxable income multiplied by the following fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the sum of the amounts treated, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, under section 995(b)(1)(D) as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, under section 995(b)(1) (D), (E), and (F) as deemed distributions taxable as dividends. The denominator of the fraction is the taxable income of the DISC for the taxable year, reduced by the amounts treated under section 995(b)(1) (A), (B), and (C) as deemed distributions taxable as dividends. However, in no event shall the numerator exceed the denominator. The remainder of such dividend will be treated as gross income from sources without the United States.


(iv) *Determination of source of income for dividends that reduce accumulated DISC income.* (*a*) If no portion of the accumulated DISC income of a DISC or former DISC is attributable to nonqualified export taxable income from any transaction during a year for which it is (or is treated as) a DISC, then the entire amount of any dividend that reduces under § 1.996-3(b)(3) accumulated DISC income will be treated as income from sources without the United States.


(*b*) If any portion of the accumulated DISC income of a DISC or former DISC is attributable to nonqualified export taxable income from any transaction during a year for which it is (or is treated as) a DISC, then the portion of any dividend during its taxable year that reduces under § 1.996-3(b)(3) accumulated DISC income that will be treated as income from sources within the United States shall be equal to the amount of such dividend multiplied by a fraction (determined as of the close of such year) the numerator of which is the amount of accumulated DISC income attributable to nonqualified export taxable income, and the denominator of which is the total amount of accumulated DISC income. The remainder of such dividend will be treated as gross income from sources without the United States.


(v) *Special rules.* For purposes of subdivisions (iii) and (iv) of this subparagraph—


(*a*) Taxable income shall be determined under § 1.992-3(b)(2)(i) (relating to the computation of deficiency distribution), and


(*b*) The portion of any deemed distribution taxable as a dividend, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, under section 995(b)(1)(D) as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, under section 995(b)(1)(D), (E), and (F) or amount under § 1.996-3(b)(3) (i) through (iv) that is treated as gross income from sources within the United States during the taxable year shall be considered to reduce the amount of nonqualified export taxable income as of the close of such year.


(vi) *Illustrations.* This subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:


(6) *Substitute dividend payments.* A substitute dividend payment is a payment, made to the transferor of a security in a securities lending transaction or a sale-repurchase transaction, of an amount equivalent to a dividend distribution which the owner of the transferred security is entitled to receive during the term of the transaction. A securities lending transaction is a transfer of one or more securities that is described in section 1058(a) or a substantially similar transaction. A sale-repurchase transaction is an agreement under which a person transfers a security in exchange for cash and simultaneously agrees to receive substantially identical securities from the transferee in the future in exchange for cash. A substitute dividend payment shall be sourced in the same manner as the distributions with respect to the transferred security for purposes of this section and § 1.862-1. See also §§ 1.864-5(b)(2)(iii), 1.871-7(b)(2) and 1.881-2(b)(2) for the character of such payments and § 1.894-1(c) for the application of tax treaties to these transactions.


(b) *Special rules*—(1) *Foreign corporation having no gross income for period preceding declaration of dividend.* If the foreign corporation has no gross income from any source for the 3-year period (or part thereof) specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the 50-percent test, or the apportionment formula, as the case may be, described in such paragraph shall be applied solely with respect to the taxable year of such corporation in which the declaration of the dividend occurs. This subparagraph applies whether the lack of gross income for the 3-year period (or part thereof) stems from the business inactivity of the foreign corporation, from the fact that such corporation is newly created or organized, or from any other cause.


(2) *Transitional rule.* For purposes of applying paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the gross income of the foreign corporation for any period before the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966, which is from sources within the United States (determined as provided by sections 861 through 863, and the regulations thereunder, as in effect immediately before amendment by section 102 of the Foreign Investors Tax Act of 1966 (Pub. L. 89-809, 80 Stat. 1541)) shall be treated as gross income for such period which is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States by such foreign corporation.


(3) *Gross income determinations.* In making determinations under subparagraph (2) or (3) of paragraph (a) of this section, or subparagraph (2) of this paragraph—


(i) The gross income of a domestic corporation is to be determined by excluding any items specifically excluded from gross income under chapter 1 of the Code.


(ii) The gross income of a foreign corporation which is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States is to be determined under section 882(b)(2) and by excluding any items specifically excluded from gross income under chapter 1 of the Code, and


(iii) The gross income from all sources of a foreign corporation is to be determined without regard to section 882(b) and without excluding any items otherwise specifically excluded from gross income under chapter 1 of the Code.


(c) *Statement with return.* Any taxpayer who is required to file a return and applies any provision of this section to exclude any dividend from his gross income must file with his return a statement setting forth the amount so excluded, the date of its receipt, the name and address of the corporation paying the dividend, and, if known, the location of the records which substantiate the amount of the exclusion. A statement from the paying corporation setting forth such information and indicating the amount of the dividend to be treated as income from sources within the United States may be used for this purpose. See §§ 1.6012-1(b)(1)(i) and 1.6012-2 (g)(1)(i).


(d) *Source of income inclusions under sections 951, 951A, and 1293 and associated section 78 dividends.* For purposes of sections 861 and 862 and §§ 1.861-1 and 1.862-1, and for purposes of applying this section, the amount included in gross income of a United States person under sections 951, 951A, and 1293 and the associated section 78 dividend for the taxable year with respect to a foreign corporation are treated as dividends received directly by the United States person from the foreign corporation that generated the inclusion. See section 904(h) and § 1.904-5(m) for rules concerning the resourcing of inclusions under sections 951, 951A, and 1293.


(e) *Applicability dates.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e) this section applies with respect to dividends received or accrued after December 31, 1966. Paragraph (a)(5) of this section applies to certain dividends from a DISC or former DISC in taxable years ending after December 31, 1971. Paragraph (a)(6) of this section is applicable to payments made after November 13, 1997. For purposes of paragraph (a)(5) of this section, any reference to a distribution taxable as a dividend under section 995(b)(1)(F) (ii) and (iii) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, shall also constitute a reference to any distribution taxable as a dividend under section 995(b)(1)(F) (ii) and (iii) for taxable years beginning after November 30, 1975, but before January 1, 1976. For corresponding rules applicable with respect to dividends received or accrued before January 1, 1967, see 26 CFR 1.861-3 (Revised as of January 1, 1972). Paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies to taxable years ending after April 9, 2008. Paragraph (d) of this section applies to taxable years ending on or after November 2, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960]


