# ยง 1.304-4   Special rules for the use of related corporations to avoid the application of section 304.

(a) *Scope and purpose.* This section applies to determine the amount of a property distribution constituting a dividend (and the source thereof) under section 304(b)(2), for certain transactions involving controlled corporations. The purpose of this section is to prevent the avoidance of the application of section 304 to a controlled corporation.


(b) *Amount and source of dividend.* For purposes of determining the amount constituting a dividend (and source thereof) under section 304(b)(2), the following rules shall apply:


(1) *Deemed acquiring corporation.* A corporation (deemed acquiring corporation) shall be treated as acquiring for property the stock of a corporation (issuing corporation) acquired for property by another corporation (acquiring corporation) that is controlled by the deemed acquiring corporation, if a principal purpose for creating, organizing, or funding the acquiring corporation by any means (including through capital contributions or debt) is to avoid the application of section 304 to the deemed acquiring corporation. See paragraph (c) *Example 1* of this section for an illustration of this paragraph.


(2) *Deemed issuing corporation.* The acquiring corporation shall be treated as acquiring for property the stock of a corporation (deemed issuing corporation) controlled by the issuing corporation if, in connection with the acquisition for property of stock of the issuing corporation by the acquiring corporation, the issuing corporation acquired stock of the deemed issuing corporation with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 304 to the deemed issuing corporation. See paragraph (c) *Example 2* of this section for an illustration of this paragraph.


(c) *Examples.* The rules of this section are illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to acquisitions of stock occurring on or after December 29, 2009.



---

[N] [T.D. 9606, 77 FR 75845, Dec. 26, 2012]




