# § 126.601   What additional requirements must a certified HUBZone small business concern meet to submit an offer on a HUBZone contract?

(a) Only certified HUBZone small business concerns are eligible to submit offers for a HUBZone contract or to receive a price evaluation preference under § 126.613.


(1) An offeror for a HUBZone contract must be identified as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) and meet the HUBZone requirements in § 126.200 as of the date it submits its initial offer that includes price.


(2) A certified HUBZone small business concern that was awarded a HUBZone contract during the 12-month period prior to submitting an offer relating to the award of another HUBZone contract may submit an offer and be eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern as long as at least 20% of its total employees reside in a HUBZone and it is making substantive and documented efforts to meet the HUBZone residency requirement.


(3) For a multiple award contract, where concerns are not required to submit price as part of the offer for the contract, an offeror must be identified as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) and meet the HUBZone requirements in § 126.200 as of the date it submits its initial offer, which may not include price.


(4) A HUBZone joint venture must have its joint venture agreement in place that complies with the requirements in § 126.616 as of its final offer.


(5) As long as a concern was a certified HUBZone small business and met the HUBZone requirements as of the date of its initial offer for a HUBZone contract, it may be awarded a HUBZone contract even if it no longer appears as a certified HUBZone small business concern on DSBS, or successor system, or no longer qualifies as an eligible HUBZone small business on the date of award.


(b) At the time a certified HUBZone small business concern submits its initial offer (including price) on a specific HUBZone contract, it must certify to the contracting officer that it:


(1) Is a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) and meets the HUBZone requirements in § 126.200, including having 35% of its employees residing in HUBZones and having its principal office located in a HUBZone;


(2) Is small, together with its affiliates, at the time of its offer under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;


(3) Will “attempt to maintain” having at least 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of the contract, as set forth in § 126.200(e); and


(4) Will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting during performance of the contract, as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter and §§ 126.200(f) and 126.700.


(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern may submit an offer on a HUBZone contract for supplies as a nonmanufacturer if it meets the requirements of the nonmanufacturer rule set forth at § 121.406 of this chapter.




(d) Where a subcontractor that is not a certified HUBZone small business will perform the primary and vital requirements of a HUBZone contract, or where a HUBZone prime contractor is unduly reliant on one or more small businesses that are not HUBZone-certified to perform the HUBZone contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of that HUBZone contract.


(1) When the subcontractor qualifies as small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a HUBZone status protest, as described in § 126.801. When the subcontractor is alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest under the ostensible subcontractor rule, as described at § 121.103(h)(3) of this chapter.


(2) In the case of a contract or order for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a prime HUBZone contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order, and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not HUBZone-certified, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that are certified HUBZone small business concerns, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.


(3) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.


(e) For two-step procurements to be awarded as HUBZone contracts (*e.g.,* architect-engineering and design-build procurements), a certified HUBZone small business concern must be eligible as of the date that it submits its initial bid or proposal (which may or may not include price) during phase one.


(f) In general, an offeror on a HUBZone contract is not required to be HUBZone-certified on the date the contract is awarded. However, for HUBZone sole source contracts, the concern must be a certified HUBZone small business concern and meet the requirements in § 126.200 at the time of award and must qualify as small as of that date under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement.



---

[N] [84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 65664, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 5304, Jan. 30, 2020; 88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102502, Dec. 17, 2024]




