# § 1036.501   General testing provisions.

(a) Use the equipment and procedures specified in this subpart and 40 CFR part 1065 to determine whether engines meet the emission standards in §§ 1036.104 and 1036.108.


(b) Use the fuels specified in 40 CFR part 1065 to perform valid tests, as follows:


(1) For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use.


(2) For diesel-fueled engines, use the ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065.703 and 40 CFR 1065.710(b)(3) for emission testing.


(3) For gasoline-fueled engines, use the appropriate E10 fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065.


(c) For engines that use aftertreatment technology with infrequent regeneration events, apply infrequent regeneration adjustment factors for each duty cycle as described in § 1036.580.


(d) If your engine is intended for installation in a vehicle equipped with stop-start technology meeting the specifications of 40 CFR 1037.660 to qualify as tamper-resistant under 40 CFR 1037.520(j)(4), you may shut the engine down during idle portions of the duty cycle to represent in-use operation. We recommend installing a production engine starter motor and letting the engine's ECM manipulate the starter motor to control the engine stop and start events. Use good engineering judgment to address the effects of dynamometer inertia on restarting the engine by, for example, using a larger starter motor or declutching the engine from the dynamometer during restart.


(e) You may disable any AECDs that have been approved solely for emergency equipment applications under § 1036.115(h)(4). Note that the emission standards do not apply when any of these AECDs are active.


(f) You may use special or alternate procedures to the extent we allow them under 40 CFR 1065.10.


(g) This subpart is addressed to you as a manufacturer, but it applies equally to anyone who does testing for you, and to us when we perform testing to determine if your engines meet emission standards.


(h) For testing engines that use regenerative braking through the crankshaft only to power an electric heater for aftertreatment devices, you may use the nonhybrid engine testing procedures in §§ 1036.510, 1036.512, and 1036.514 and you may also or instead use the fuel mapping procedure in § 1036.505(b)(1) or (2). You may use this allowance only if the recovered energy is less than 10 percent of the total positive work for each applicable test interval. Otherwise, use powertrain testing procedures specified for hybrid powertrains to measure emissions and create fuel maps. For engines that power an electric heater with a battery, you must meet the requirements related to charge-sustaining operation as described in 40 CFR 1066.501(a)(3).



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29742, Apr. 22, 2024]






