# § 1005.219   Other requirements.

(a) *Tribal, Federal, and State law.* All Holders, Direct Guarantee Lenders, Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders and Servicers must comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, and State laws which impact mortgage-related activities.


(b) *Dual employment.* All Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders and Direct Guarantee Lenders must require its employees to be exclusive employees, unless the Non-Direct Guarantee and Direct Guarantee Lender has determined that the employee's other employment, including any self-employment, does not create a Conflict of Interest.


(c) *Reporting requirements.* All Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit reports in accordance with § 1005.903. Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit required reports to their Sponsor, under this part or any requirements as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(d) *Records retention.* Records retention requirements are as follows:


(1) Direct Guarantee Lenders must maintain an endorsement case binder for a period of three years beyond the date of satisfaction or maturity date of the Loan, whichever is sooner. However, where there is a payment of Claim, the endorsement case binder must be retained for a period of at least five years after the final Claim has been paid. Section 184 Program Guidance shall prescribe additional records retention time depending on the circumstances of the Claim.


(2) All Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must retain personnel files of employees for one year beyond the employee's separation.


(3) All Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must follow the applicable records retention requirements imposed by applicable Tribal, Federal, and State laws.


(4) Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must maintain the quality control plan records for a period prescribed in § 1005.217(b)(4).


(e) *Minimum level of lending on Trust Land.* (1) Direct Guarantee Lenders must actively market, Originate, underwrite, and close Loans on Trust Land. A Sponsor must ensure its Sponsored Entities actively market and Originate Loans on Trust Land. HUD may impose a minimum level of lending on Trust Land, which may be adjusted periodically, through publication in the _Federal Register_.


(2) Failure to meet the minimum level of lending on Trust Land may result in sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.


(3) HUD may grant exceptions for Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders licensed and doing business in a State or States with limited Trust Lands. The process to request the exception will be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.






