# § 98.246   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, as appropriate for each process unit.


(a) If you use the mass balance methodology in § 98.243(c), you must report the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (15) of this section for each type of petrochemical produced, reported by process unit.






(1) The petrochemical process unit ID number or other appropriate descriptor.




(2) The type of petrochemical produced.








(3) Annual CO_2_ emissions calculated using Equation X-4 of this subpart.


(4) The temperature (in °F) at which the gaseous feedstock and product volumes used in Equation X-1 of § 98.243 were determined.


(5) Annual quantity of each type of petrochemical produced from each process unit (metric tons). If you are electing to consider the petrochemical process unit to be the entire integrated ethylene dichloride/vinyl chloride monomer process, the portion of the total amount of ethylene dichloride (EDC) produced that is used in vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) production may be a measured quantity or an estimate that is based on process knowledge and best available data. The portion of the total amount of EDC produced that is not utilized in VCM production must be measured in accordance with § 98.244(b)(2) or (3). Sum the amount of EDC used in the production of VCM plus the amount of separate EDC product to report as the total quantity of EDC petrochemical from an integrated EDC/VCM petrochemical process unit.




(6) For each feedstock and product, provide the information specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (a)(6)(iii) of this section.


(i) Name of each method used to determine carbon content or molecular weight in accordance with § 98.244(b)(4);


(ii) Description of each type of measurement device (*e.g.,* flow meter, weighing device) used to determine volume or mass in accordance with § 98.244(b)(1) through (3).


(iii) Identification of each method (*i.e.,* method number, title, or other description) used to determine volume or mass in accordance with § 98.244(b)(1) through (3).


(7) [Reserved]


(8) Identification of each combustion unit that burned both process off-gas and supplemental fuel, including combustion units that are not part of the petrochemical process unit.


(9) The number of days during which off-specification product was produced if the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) is used for a product, and, if applicable, the date of any process change that reduced the monthly average composition to less than 99.5 percent for each product or feedstock for which you comply with the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4).


(10) You may elect to report the flow and carbon content of wastewater, and you may elect to report the annual mass of carbon released in fugitive emissions and in process vents that are not controlled with a combustion device. These values may be estimated based on engineering analyses. These values are not to be used in the mass balance calculation.


(11) If you determine carbon content or composition of a feedstock or product using a method under § 98.244(b)(4)(xv)(B), report the information listed in paragraphs (a)(11)(i) through (a)(11)(iii) of this section. Include the information in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section in each annual report. Include the information in paragraphs (a)(11)(ii) and (a)(11)(iii) of this section only in the first applicable annual report, and provide any changes to this information in subsequent annual reports.


(i) Name or title of the analytical method.


(ii) A copy of the method. If the method is a modification of a method listed in §§ 98.244(b)(4)(i) through (xiv), you may provide a copy of only the sections that differ from the listed method.


(iii) An explanation of why an alternative to the methods listed in §§ 98.244(b)(4)(i) through (xiv) is needed.


(12) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each carbon-containing feedstock included in Equations X-1, X-2, and X-3 of § 98.243.




(13) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each product included in equations X-1, X-2, and X-3 to § 98.243. If you are electing to consider the petrochemical process unit to be the entire integrated ethylene dichloride/vinyl chloride monomer process, the reported quantity of EDC product should include only that which was not used in the VCM process.




(14) Annual average of the measurements or determinations of the carbon content of each feedstock and product, conducted according to § 98.243(c)(3) or (4).


(i) For feedstocks and products that are gaseous or solid, report this quantity in kg C per kg of feedstock or product.


(ii) For liquid feedstocks and products, report this quantity either in units of kg C per kg of feedstock or product, or kg C per gallon of feedstock or product.


(15) For each gaseous feedstock or product for which the volume was used in equation X-1 to § 98.243, report the annual average molecular weight of the measurements or determinations, conducted according to § 98.243(c)(3) or (4). Report the annual average molecular weight in units of kg per kg mole.










(b) If you measure emissions in accordance with § 98.243(b), then you must report the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) The petrochemical process unit ID or other appropriate descriptor, and the type of petrochemical produced.


(2) For CEMS used on stacks that include emissions from stationary combustion units that burn any amount of off-gas from the petrochemical process, report the relevant information required under § 98.36(c)(2) and (e)(2)(vi) for the Tier 4 calculation methodology. Section 98.36(c)(2)(ii), (ix) and (x) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(3) For CEMS used on stacks that do not include emissions from stationary combustion units, report the information required under § 98.36(b)(6) and (7), (b)(9)(i) and (ii) and (e)(2)(vi).


(4) For each CEMS monitoring location that meets the conditions in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, provide an estimate based on engineering judgment of the fraction of the total CO_2_ emissions that results from CO_2_ directly emitted by the petrochemical process unit plus CO_2_ generated by the combustion of off-gas from the petrochemical process unit.


(5) For each CEMS monitoring location that meets the conditions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, report the CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions expressed in metric tons of each gas. For each CEMS monitoring location, provide an estimate based on engineering judgment of the fraction of the total CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions that is attributable to combustion of off-gas from the petrochemical process unit.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) Information listed in § 98.256(e) for each flare that burns process off-gas. Additionally, provide estimates based on engineering judgment of the fractions of the total CO_2_, CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions that are attributable to combustion of off-gas from the petrochemical process unit(s) served by the flare.


(8) Annual quantity of each type of petrochemical produced from each process unit (metric tons).








(9) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each carbon-containing feedstock.


(10) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each product.


(c) If you comply with the combustion methodology specified in § 98.243(d), you must report under this subpart the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) The ethylene process unit ID or other appropriate descriptor.


(2) For each stationary combustion unit that burns ethylene process off-gas (or group of stationary sources with a common pipe), except flares, the relevant information listed in § 98.36 for the applicable Tier methodology. For each stationary combustion unit or group of units (as applicable) that burns ethylene process off-gas, provide an estimate based on engineering judgment of the fraction of the total emissions that is attributable to combustion of off-gas from the ethylene process unit.


(3) Information listed in § 98.256(e) for each flare that burns ethylene process off-gas. Additionally, provide estimates based on engineering judgment of the fractions of the total CO_2_, CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions that are attributable to combustion of off-gas from the ethylene process unit(s) served by the flare.


(4) Name and annual quantity of each carbon-containing feedstock (metric tons).


(5) Annual quantity of ethylene produced from each process unit (metric tons).


(6) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each product produced in each process unit.







---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79159, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71962, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63794, Oct. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89260, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31929, Apr. 25, 2024]




