# § 1.1287-1   Denial of capital gains treatment for gains on registration-required obligations not in registered form.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any gain on the sale or other disposition of a registration-required obligation held after December 31, 1982, that is not in registered form shall be treated as ordinary income unless the issuance of the obligation was subject to tax under section 4701. The term *registration-required obligation* has the meaning given to that term in section 163(f)(2), except that clause (iv) of subparagraph (A) thereof shall not apply. Therefore, although an obligation that is not in registered form is described in § 1.163-5(c)(1), the holder of such an obligation shall be required to treat the gain on the sale or other disposition of such obligation as ordinary income. The term *holder* means the person that would be denied a loss deduction under section 165(j)(1) or denied capital gain treatment under section 1287(a).


(b) *Registered form*—(1) *Obligations issued after September 21, 1984.* With respect to any obligation originally issued after September 21, 1984, the term *registered form* has the meaning given that term in section 103(j)(3) and the regulations thereunder. Therefore, an obligation that would otherwise be in registered form is not considered to be in registered form if it can be transferred at that time or at any time until its maturity by any means not described in § 5f.103-1(c). An obligation that, as of a particular time, is not considered to be in registered form because it can be transferred by any means not described in § 5f.103-1(c) is considered to be in registered form at all times during the period beginning with a later time and ending with the maturity of the obligation in which the obligation can be transferred only by a means described in § 5f.103-1(c).


(2) *Obligations issued after December 31, 1982, and on or before September 21, 1984.* With respect to any obligation originally issued after December 31, 1982, and on or before September 21, 1984, or an obligation originally issued after September 21, 1984, pursuant to the exercise of a warrant or the conversion of a convertible obligation, which warrant or obligation (including conversion privilege) was issued after December 31, 1982, and on or before September 21, 1984, that obligation will be considered to be in registered form if it satisfied § 5f.163-1 or the proposed regulations provided in § 1.163.-5(c) and published in the _Federal Register_ on September 2, 1983 (48 FR 39953).


(c) *Registration-required obligations not in registered form which are not subject to section 1287(c).* Notwithstanding the fact than an obligation is a registration-required obligation that is not in registered form, the holder will not be subject to section 1287(a) if the holder meets the conditions of § 1.165-12(c).


(d) *Effective date.* These regulations apply generally to obligations issued after January 20, 1987. However, a taxpayer may choose to apply the rules of § 1.1287-1 with respect to an obligation issued after December 31, 1982, and on or before January 20, 1987, which obligation is held after January 20, 1987.



---

[N] [T.D. 8110, 51 FR 45461, Dec. 19, 1986]




