# § 179.202-12   Performance standard requirements (DOT-117P).

(a) *Approval.* Design, testing, and modeling results must be reviewed and approved by the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer, Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(b) *Approval to operate at 286,000 gross rail load (GRL).* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a tank car may be loaded to a gross weight on rail of up to 286,000 pounds (129,727 kg) upon approval by the Associate Administrator for Safety, Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). See § 179.13.


(c) *Puncture resistance.* (1) Minimum side impact speed: 12 mph when impacted at the longitudinal and vertical center of the shell by a rigid 12-inch by 12-inch indenter with a weight of 286,000 pounds.


(2) Minimum head impact speed: 18 mph when impacted at the center of the head by a rigid 12-inch by 12-inch indenter with a weight of 286,000 pounds.


(d) *Thermal protection systems.* The tank car must be equipped with a thermal protection system. The thermal protection system must be equivalent to the performance standard prescribed in § 179.18 and include a reclosing pressure relief device in accordance with § 173.31 of this subchapter.


(e) *Bottom outlet.* If the tank car is equipped with a bottom outlet, the handle must be removed prior to train movement or be designed with protection safety system(s) to prevent unintended actuation during train accident scenarios.


(f) *Top fittings protection.* The tank car tank must be equipped with top fittings protection conforming to AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix E paragraph 10.2.1 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).



---

[N] [80 FR 26749, May 8, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 53957, Aug. 15, 2016; 83 FR 48401, Sept. 25, 2018]




