# § 9.135   Virginia's Eastern Shore.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Virginia's Eastern Shore.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the “Virginia's Eastern Shore” viticultural area are 3 U.S.G.S. Quadrangle (1:250,000 Series) maps. They are titled:


(1) Eastville, VA.; N.C.; MD., 1946 (revised 1969).


(2) Salisbury, MD.; DEL.; N.J.; VA., 1946 (revised 1969).


(3) Richmond VA.; MD., 1973.


(c) *Boundary.* The Virginia's Eastern Shore viticultural area is located in Accomack and Northampton counties, Virginia. The boundary is as follows:


(1) The beginning point is the intersection of the Virginia/Maryland border and Chincoteague Bay, near Greenbackville on the Salisbury, MD., U.S.G.S. map;


(2) From the beginning point, the boundary follows the coastline in a southwesterly direction. Where there are marshes indicated on the U.S.G.S. maps, the boundary is the inland side of these marshes;


(3) When the boundary reaches the southernmost point of the peninsula, on the Eastville, VA., U.S.G.S. map, the boundary turns and proceeds in a northwesterly direction, again following the coastline around Cherrystone Inlet on the Richmond, VA., U.S.G.S. map;


(4) The boundary continues to follow the coastline and the inland side of any marshes indicated on the U.S.G.S. maps in a northeasterly direction, until it reaches the Virginia/Maryland border on the Eastville, VA., U.S.G.S. map;


(5) The boundary then follows the Virginia/Maryland border back to the beginning point at Chincoteague Bay on the Salisbury, MD., U.S.G.S. map.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-309, 56 FR 24, Jan. 2, 1991, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87936, Nov. 6, 2024]




