# § 1701.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following terms have the meanings indicated:


*Access* means making a record available to a subject individual.


*Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974.


*Agency* means the ODNI or any of its components.


*Component* means any directorate, mission manager, or other sub-organization in the ODNI or reporting to the Director, that has been designated or established in the ODNI pursuant to Section 103 of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, including the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC), the National Counterproliferation Center (NCPC) and the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive (ONCIX), or such other offices and officials as may be established by law or as the Director may establish or designate in the ODNI, for example, the Program Manager, Information Sharing Environment (ISE) and the Inspector General (IG).


*Disclosure* means making a record about an individual available to or releasing it to another party.


*FOIA* means the Freedom of Information Act.


*Individual*, when used in connection with the Privacy Act, means a living person who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. It does not include sole proprietorships, partnerships, or corporations.


*Information* means information about an individual and includes, but is not limited to, vital statistics; race, sex, or other physical characteristics; earnings information; professional fees paid to an individual and other financial information; benefit data or claims information; the Social Security number, employer identification number, or other individual identifier; address; phone number; medical information; and information about marital, family or other personal relationships.


*Maintain* means to establish, collect, use, or disseminate when used in connection with the term record; and, to have control over or responsibility for a system of records, when used in connection with the term system of records.


*Notification* means communication to an individual whether he is a subject individual.


*Office of the Director of National Intelligence* means any and all of the components of the ODNI.


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the ODNI including, but not limited to, information such as an individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history that contains the individual's name, or an identifying number, symbol, or any other identifier assigned to an individual. When used in this subpart, record means only a record that is in a system of records.


*Routine* use means the disclosure of a record outside ODNI, without the consent of the subject individual, for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected. It does not include disclosure which the Privacy Act otherwise permits pursuant to subsection (b) of the Act.


*Staff* means any current or former regular or special employee, detailee, assignee, employee of a contracting organization, or independent contractor of the ODNI or any of its components.


*Subject* individual means the person to whom a record pertains (or “record subject”).


*System of records* means a group of records under ODNI's control from which information about an individual is retrieved by the name of the individual or by an identifying number, symbol, or other particular assigned to the individual. Single records or groups of records which are not retrieved by a personal identifier are not part of a system of records,




