# § 17.86   Provision of hospital care and medical services during certain disasters and emergencies under 38 U.S.C. 1785.

(a) This section sets forth regulations regarding the provision of hospital care and medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1785.


(b) During and immediately following a disaster or emergency referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, VA under 38 U.S.C. 1785 may furnish hospital care and medical services to individuals (including those who otherwise do not have VA eligibility for such care and services) responding to, involved in, or otherwise affected by that disaster or emergency.


(c) For purposes of this section, a *disaster* or *emergency* means:


(1) A major disaster or emergency declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 *et seq.*) (Stafford Act); or


(2) A disaster or emergency in which the National Disaster Medical System established pursuant to section 2811(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh-11(b)) is activated either by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under paragraph (3)(A) of that section or as otherwise authorized by law.


(d) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the terms *hospital care* and *medical services* have the meanings given such terms by 38 U.S.C. 1701(5) and 1701(6).


(e) The cost of care for medical care and services provided under this section will be determined in accordance with the following:


(1) If the care is provided to an officer or employee of a non-VA Federal agency VA will charge the rate agreed upon by the Secretary and the head of such department or agency or the Secretary concerned. If no such rate has been agreed to, VA will charge the Inter-Agency Rate as prescribed in § 17.102(c).


(2) If the care is provided to a member of the Armed Forces VA will charge the rate agreed upon by the Secretary and the head of such branch or the Secretary concerned. If no such rate has been agreed to, VA will charge the Inter-Agency Rate as prescribed in § 17.102(c).


(3) If the care is authorized under a sharing agreement as described in 38 U.S.C. 8111 or 8153 or § 17.240, VA will charge the rate determined in accordance with the sharing agreement.


(4) If the care is provided to an individual who is responsible for the cost of the care, VA will charge the Cost-Based Rate as prescribed in § 17.102(c). Individuals will be responsible for the cost of care or services if mandated by Federal law (including applicable Appropriations Acts) or when the cost of care or services is not reimbursed by other-than-VA Federal departments or agencies.






(f) VA may furnish care and services under this section to a veteran without regard to whether that individual is enrolled in the VA healthcare system under 38 U.S.C. 1705 and § 17.36 of this part.



---

[N] [73 FR 26946, May 12, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 32975, May 23, 2023]




