# § 60.502a   Standard for volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from bulk gasoline terminals.

(a) Each gasoline loading rack affected facility shall be equipped with a vapor collection system designed and operated to collect the total organic compounds vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading.


(b) For each newly constructed gasoline loading rack affected facility, the facility owner or operator must meet the applicable emission limitations in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section no later than the date on which § 60.8(a) requires a performance test to be completed. A flare cannot be used to comply with the emission limitations in this paragraph (b).


(1) If a thermal oxidation system is used, maintain the emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection system due to the loading of liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks at or below 1.0 milligram of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded (mg/L). Continual compliance with this requirement must be demonstrated as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Conduct initial and periodic performance tests as specified in § 60.503a(a) through (c) and meet the emission limitation in this paragraph (b)(1).


(ii) Maintain combustion zone temperature of the thermal oxidation system at or above the 3-hour rolling average operating limit established during the performance test when loading liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks. Valid operating data must exclude periods when there is no liquid product being loaded. If previous contents of the cargo tanks are known, you may also exclude periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded provided that you excluded these periods in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provisions in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii).


(2) If a vapor recovery system is used:


(i) Maintain the emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection system at or below 550 parts per million by volume (ppmv) of TOC as propane determined on a 3-hour rolling average when the vapor recovery system is operating;


(ii) Operate the vapor recovery system during all periods when the vapor recovery system is capable of processing gasoline vapors, including periods when liquid product is being loaded, during carbon bed regeneration, and when preparing the beds for reuse; and


(iii) Operate the vapor recovery system to minimize air or nitrogen intrusion except as needed for the system to operate as designed for the purpose of removing VOC from the adsorption media or to break vacuum in the system and bring the system back to atmospheric pressure. Consistent with § 60.12, the use of gaseous diluents to achieve compliance with a standard which is based on the concentration of a pollutant in the gases discharged to the atmosphere is prohibited.


(c) For each modified or reconstructed gasoline loading rack affected facility, the facility owner or operator must meet the applicable emission limitations in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section no later than the date on which § 60.8(a) requires a performance test to be completed.


(1) If a thermal oxidation system is used, maintain the emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection system due to the loading of liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks at or below 10 mg/L. Continual compliance with this requirement must be demonstrated as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Conduct initial and periodic performance tests as specified in § 60.503a(a) through (c) and meet the emission limitation in this paragraph (c)(1).


(ii) Maintain combustion zone temperature of the thermal oxidation system at or above the 3-hour rolling average operating limit established during the performance test when loading liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks. Valid operating data must exclude periods when there is no liquid product being loaded. If previous contents of the cargo tanks are known, you may also exclude periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded provided that you excluded these periods in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provisions in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii).


(iii) As an alternative to the combustion zone temperature operating limit, you may elect to use the monitoring provisions as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) If a vapor recovery system is used:


(i) Maintain the emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection system at or below 5,500 ppmv of TOC as propane determined on a 3-hour rolling average when the vapor recovery system is operating;


(ii) Operate the vapor recovery system during all periods when the vapor recovery system is capable of processing gasoline vapors, including periods when liquid product is being loaded, during carbon bed regeneration, and when preparing the beds for reuse; and


(iii) Operate the vapor recovery system to minimize air or nitrogen intrusion except as needed for the system to operate as designed for the purpose of removing VOC from the adsorption media or to break vacuum in the system and bring the system back to atmospheric pressure. Consistent with § 60.12, the use of gaseous diluents to achieve compliance with a standard which is based on the concentration of a pollutant in the gases discharged to the atmosphere is prohibited.


(3) If a flare is used or if a thermal oxidation system for which these provisions are specified as a monitoring alternative is used, meet all applicable requirements specified in § 63.670(b) through (g) and (i) through (n) of this chapter except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section.


(i) For the purpose of this subpart, “regulated materials” refers to “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”. If you do not know the previous contents of the cargo tank, you must assume that cargo tank is a gasoline cargo tank.


(ii) In § 63.670(c) of this chapter for visible emissions:


(A) The phrase “specify the smokeless design capacity of each flare and” does not apply.


(B) The phrase “and the flare vent gas flow rate is less than the smokeless design capacity of the flare” does not apply.


(C) Substitute “The owner or operator shall monitor for visible emissions from the flare as specified in § 60.504a(c)(4).” for the sentence “The owner or operator shall monitor for visible emissions from the flare as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.”


(iii) The phrase “and the flare vent gas flow rate is less than the smokeless design capacity of the flare” in § 63.670(d) of this chapter for flare tip velocity requirements does not apply.


(iv) Substitute “pilot flame or flare flame” for each occurrence of “pilot flame.”


(v) Substitute “gasoline distribution facility” for each occurrence of “petroleum refinery” or “refinery.”


(vi) As an alternative to the flow rate monitoring alternatives provided in § 63.670(i) of this chapter, you may elect to determine flare waste gas flow rate by monitoring the cumulative loading rates of all liquid products loaded into cargo tanks for which the displaced vapors are managed by the affected facility's vapor collection system and vapor processing system.


(vii) If using provision in § 63.670(j)(6) of this chapter for flare vent gas composition monitoring, you must comply with those provisions as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(vii)(A) through (G) of this section.


(A) You must submit a separate written application to the Administrator for an exemption from monitoring, as described in § 63.670(j)(6)(i) of this chapter.


(B) You must determine the minimum ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded for which the affected source must operate at or above at all times when liquid product is loaded into cargo tanks for which vapors collected are sent to the flare or, if applicable, thermal oxidation system and include that in the explanation of conditions expected to produce the flare gas with lowest net heating value as required in § 63.670(j)(6)(i)(C) of this chapter. For air assisted flares or thermal oxidation systems, you must also establish a minimum gasoline loading rate (*i.e.,* volume of gasoline loaded in a 15-minute period) for which the affected source must operate at or above at all times and include that in the explanation of conditions that ensure the flare gas net heating value is consistent and representative of the lowest net heating value as required in § 63.670(j)(6)(i)(C).


(C) As required in § 63.670(j)(6)(i)(D) of this chapter, samples must be collected at the conditions identified in § 63.670(j)(6)(i)(C) of this chapter, which includes the applicable conditions specified in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B) of this section.


(D) The first change from winter gasoline to summer gasoline or from summer gasoline to winter gasoline, whichever comes first, is considered a change in operating conditions under § 63.670(j)(6)(iii) of this chapter and must be evaluated according to the provisions in § 63.670(j)(6)(iii). If separate net heating values are determined for summer gasoline loading versus winter gasoline loading, you may use the summer net heating value for all subsequent summer gasoline loading operations and the winter net heating value for all subsequent winter gasoline loading operations provided there are no other changes in operations.


(E) You must monitor the volume of gasoline loaded and the total volume of liquid product loaded on a 5-minute block basis and maintain the ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded at or above the value determined in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B) of this section and, for air assisted flares or thermal oxidation systems, maintain the gasoline loading rate at or above the value determined in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B) on a rolling 15-minute period basis, calculated based on liquid product loaded during 3 contiguous 5-minute blocks, considering only those periods when liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks for any portion of three contiguous 5-minute block periods.


(F) For unassisted or perimeter air assisted flares or thermal oxidation systems, if the net heating value determined in § 63.670(j)(6)(i)(F) of this chapter meets or exceeds 270 British thermal units per standard cubic feet (Btu/scf), compliance with the ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(E) of this section demonstrates compliance with the flare combustion zone net heating value (NHV_cz_) operating limit in § 63.670(e) of this chapter.


(G) For perimeter air assisted flares or thermal oxidation systems, if the net heating value determined in § 63.670(j)(6)(i)(F) of this chapter meets or exceeds the net heating value dilution parameter (NHV_dil_) operating limit of 22 British thermal units per square foot (Btu/ft
2) at the flow rate associated with the minimum gasoline loading rate determined in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B) of this section at any air assist rate used, compliance with the minimum gasoline loading rate as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(E) of this section demonstrates compliance with the NHV_dil_ operating limit in § 63.670(f) of this chapter.


(viii) You may elect to establish a minimum supplemental gas addition rate and monitor the supplemental gas addition rate, in addition to the operating limits in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(E) of this section, to demonstrate compliance with the flare combustion zone operating limit in § 63.670(e) of this chapter and, if applicable, flare dilution operating limit in § 63.670(f) of this chapter, as follows.


(A) Use the minimum flare vent gas net heating value prior to addition of supplemental gas as established in paragraph (c)(3)(vii) of this section.


(B) Determine the maximum flow rate based on the maximum cumulative loading rate for a 15-minute block period considering all loading racks at the affected facility and considering restrictions on maximum loading rates necessary for compliance with the maximum pressure limits for the vapor collection and liquid loading equipment specified in paragraph (h) of this section.


(C) Determine the supplemental gas addition rate needed to yield NHV_cz_ of 270 Btu/scf using equation in § 63.670(m)(1) of this chapter.


(D) For flares (or thermal oxidation systems) with perimeter assist air, determine the supplemental gas addition rate needed to yield NHV_dil_ of 22 Btu/ft
2 using equation in § 63.670(n)(1) of this chapter at the flare vent gas net heating value determined in paragraph (c)(3)(vii) of this section, the flare gas flow rate associated with the minimum gasoline loading rate as determined in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B) of this section, and the fixed air assist rate. If the air assist rate is varied based on total liquid product loading rates, you must use the air assist rate used at low flow rates and repeat the calculation using the minimum flow rate associated with each air assist rate setting and select the maximum supplemental gas addition rate across any of the air assist rate settings.


(E) Maintain the supplemental gas addition rate above the greater of the values determined in paragraphs (c)(3)(viii)(C) and, if applicable, (c)(3)(viii)(D) of this section on a 15-minute block period basis when liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks for at least 15-minutes.


(ix) As an alternative to determining the flare tip velocity rate for each 15-minute block to determine compliance with the flare tip velocity operating limit as specified in § 63.670(k)(2) of this chapter, you may elect to conduct a one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(ix)(A) through (D) of this section. If the flare or loading rack configurations change (*e.g.,* flare tip modified or additional loading racks are added for which vapors are directed to the flare), you must repeat this one-time assessment based on the new configuration.


(A) Determine the unobstructed cross-sectional area of the flare tip, in units of square feet, as specified in § 63.670(k)(1) of this chapter.


(B) Determine the maximum flow rate, in units of cubic feet per second, based on the maximum cumulative loading rate for a 15-minute block period considering all loading racks at the gasoline loading racks affected facility and considering restrictions on maximum loading rates necessary for compliance with the maximum pressure limits for the vapor collection and liquid loading equipment specified in paragraph (h) of this section.


(C) Calculate the maximum flare tip velocity as the maximum flow rate from paragraph (c)(3)(ix)(B) of this section divided by the unobstructed cross-sectional area of the flare tip from paragraph (c)(3)(ix)(A) of this section.


(D) Demonstrate that the maximum flare tip velocity as calculated in paragraph (c)(3)(ix)(C) of this section is less than 60 feet per second.


(d) Each vapor collection system for the gasoline loading rack affected facility shall be designed to prevent any total organic compounds vapors collected at one loading rack from passing to another loading rack.


(e) Loadings of liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks at a gasoline loading rack affected facility shall be limited to vapor-tight gasoline cargo tanks according to the methods in § 60.503a(f) using the following procedures:


(1) The owner or operator shall obtain the vapor tightness annual certification test documentation described in § 60.505a(a)(3) for each gasoline cargo tank which is to be loaded at the affected facility. If you do not know the previous contents of a cargo tank, you must assume that cargo tank is a gasoline cargo tank.


(2) The owner or operator shall obtain and record the cargo tank identification number of each gasoline cargo tank which is to be loaded at the affected facility.


(3) The owner or operator shall cross-check each cargo tank identification number obtained in paragraph (e)(2) of this section with the file of gasoline cargo tank vapor tightness documentation specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section prior to loading any liquid product into the gasoline cargo tank.


(f) Loading of liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks at a gasoline loading rack affected facility shall be conducted using submerged filling, as defined in § 60.501a, and only into gasoline cargo tanks equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system. If you do not know the previous contents of a cargo tank, you must assume that cargo tank is a gasoline cargo tank.


(g) Loading of liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks at a gasoline loading rack affected facility shall only be conducted when the terminal's and the cargo tank's vapor collection systems are connected. If you do not know the previous contents of a cargo tank, you must assume that cargo tank is a gasoline cargo tank.


(h) The vapor collection and liquid loading equipment for a gasoline loading rack affected facility shall be designed and operated to prevent gauge pressure in the gasoline cargo tank from exceeding 18 inches of water (460 millimeters (mm) of water) during product loading. This level is not to be exceeded and must be continuously monitored according to the procedures specified in § 60.504a(d).


(i) No pressure-vacuum vent in the gasoline loading rack affected facility's vapor collection system shall begin to open at a system pressure less than 18 inches of water (460 mm of water) or at a vacuum of less than 6.0 inches of water (150 mm of water).


(j) Each owner or operator of a collection of equipment at a bulk gasoline terminal affected facility shall perform leak inspection and repair of all equipment in gasoline service, which includes all equipment in the vapor collection system, the vapor processing system, and each loading rack and loading arm handling gasoline, according to the requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) through (8) of this section. The owner or operator must keep a list, summary description, or diagram(s) showing the location of all equipment in gasoline service at the facility.


(1) Conduct leak detection monitoring of all pumps, valves, and connectors in gasoline service using either of the methods specified in paragraph (j)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Use optical gas imaging (OGI) to quarterly monitor all pumps, valves, and connectors in gasoline service as specified in § 60.503a(e)(2).


(ii) Use Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part as specified in § 60.503a(e)(1) and paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) All pumps must be monitored quarterly, unless the pump meets one of the requirements in § 60.482-1a(d) or § 60.482-2a(d) through (g). An instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is a leak.


(B) All valves must be monitored quarterly, unless the valve meets one of the requirements in § 60.482-1a(d) or § 60.482-7a(f) through (h). An instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is a leak.


(C) All connectors must be monitored annually, unless the connector meets one of the requirements in § 60.482-1a(d) or § 60.482-11a(e) or (f). An instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is a leak.


(2) During normal duties, record leaks identified by audio, visual, or olfactory methods.


(3) If evidence of a potential leak is found at any time by audio, visual, olfactory, or any other detection method for any equipment (as defined in § 60.501a), a leak is detected.


(4) For pressure relief devices, comply with the requirements in paragraphs (j)(4)(i) through (ii) of this section.


(i) Conduct instrument monitoring of each pressure relief device quarterly and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release to detect leaks by the methods specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, except as provided in § 60.482-4a(c).


(ii) If emissions are observed when using OGI, a leak is detected. If Method 21 is used, an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater indicates a leak is detected.


(5) For sampling connection systems, comply with the requirements in § 60.482-5a.


(6) For open-ended valves or lines, comply with the requirements in § 60.482-6a.


(7) When a leak is detected for any equipment, comply with the requirements of paragraphs (j)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, must be attached to the leaking equipment. The identification on equipment may be removed after it has been repaired.


(ii) An initial attempt at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. An initial attempt at repair is not required if the leak is detected using OGI and the equipment identified as leaking would require elevating the repair personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.


(iii) Repair or replacement of leaking equipment shall be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (j)(8) of this section.


(A) For leaks identified pursuant to instrument monitoring required under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the leak is repaired when instrument re-monitoring of the equipment does not detect a leak.


(B) For leaks identified pursuant to paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the leak is repaired when the leak can no longer be identified using audio, visual, or olfactory methods.


(8) Delay of repair of leaking equipment will be allowed according to the provisions in paragraphs (j)(8)(i) though (iv) of this section. The owner or operator shall provide in the semiannual report specified in § 60.505a(c), the reason(s) why the repair was delayed and the date each repair was completed.


(i) Delay of repair of equipment will be allowed for equipment that is isolated from the affected facility and that does not remain in gasoline service.


(ii) Delay of repair for valves and connectors will be allowed if:


(A) The owner or operator demonstrates that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and


(B) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with § 60.482-10a or the requirements in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable.


(iii) Delay of repair will be allowed for a valve, but not later than 3 months after the leak was detected, if valve assembly replacement is necessary, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted.


(iv) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if:


(A) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system; and


(B) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.


(k) You must not allow gasoline to be handled at a bulk gasoline terminal that contains an affected facility listed under § 60.500a(a) in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Minimize gasoline spills;


(2) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable;


(3) Cover all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill-pipes with a gasketed seal when not in use; and


(4) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.






