# § 1280.101   Definitions.

*Act* means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; Public Law 104- 127; 110 Stat. 1029, as amended), or any amendments thereto.


*Board* means the Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Board established pursuant to § 1280.201.


*Certified organization* means any organization which has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to this part as being eligible to submit nominations for membership on the Board.


*Conflict of interest* means a situation in which a member or employee of a Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person that performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, a Board for anything of economic value.


*Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Exporter* means any person who exports domestic live lambs from the United States.


*Feeder* means any person who acquires ownership of lambs and feeds such lambs in the U.S. until they reach slaughter weight.


*First handler* means the packer or other person who buys or takes possession of lambs from a producer or feeder for slaughter, including custom slaughter. If a producer or feeder markets lamb products directly to consumers, the producer or feeder shall be considered a first handler with respect to such lambs produced by the producer or feeder.


*Fiscal period and marketing year* mean the 12-month period ending on December 31 or such other consecutive 12-month period as shall be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.


*Information* means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in producing lambs, to maintain and expand existing markets, and to develop new markets, marketing strategies, increased market efficiency, and activities that are designed to enhance the image of lamb and lamb products on a national or international basis. These include:


(1) Consumer information, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, and nutritional attributes of lamb and lamb products; and


(2) Industry information, which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the lamb industry, and activities to enhance the image of lamb.


*Lamb* means ovine animals of any age, including ewes and rams.


*Lamb products* means products produced in whole or in part from lamb, including pelts, and excluding wool and wool products.


*Market agency* means commission merchant, auction market, or livestock market in the business of receiving lambs or lamb products for sale or purchase on commission for or on behalf of a producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler.


*Order* means an Order issued by the Secretary under § 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.


*Part* means the Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Order and all rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a subpart of the Part.


*Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.


*Producer* means any person who owns and produces lambs in the United States for sale.


*Producer information* means activities designed to provide producers, feeders, and first handlers with information relating to production or marketing efficiencies, development of new markets, program activities, or other information that would facilitate an increase in the demand for lamb or lamb products.


*Promotion* means any action, including paid advertising and the dissemination of culinary and nutritional information and public relations with emphasis on new marketing strategies, to present a favorable image of U.S. lamb products to the public for the purpose of improving the competitive position of U.S. lamb and lamb products in the marketplace and to stimulate sales.


*Referendum* means a referendum to be conducted by the Secretary pursuant to the Act whereby producers, feeders, first handlers, and exporters shall be given the opportunity to vote to determine whether the continuance of this subpart is favored by a majority of eligible persons voting and a majority of volume voting.


*Research* means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of lamb or lamb products.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.


*Seedstock producer* means any lamb producer in the U.S. who engages in the production and sale of breeding replacement lambs or semen or embryos.


*State* means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.


*Suspend* means to issue a rule under § 553 of title 5 U.S.C., to temporarily prevent the operation of an Order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.


*Terminate* means to issue a rule under § 553 of title 5 U.S.C., to cancel permanently the operation of an Order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.


*Unit* means each State, group of States, or class designation (producers, feeders, first handlers, or seedstock producers) that is represented on the Board.


*United States* means collectively the 50 States and the District of Columbia.


*Wool* means fiber from the fleece of a lamb.


*Wool products* mean products produced, in whole or in part, from wool and products containing wool fiber, excluding pelts.



---

[N] [86 FR 72514, Dec. 22, 2021]




