# ยง 28.605   Compliance information.

(a) *Cooperation and assistance.* The designated agency official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with these Title IX regulations and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with these Title IX regulations. 


(b) *Compliance reports.* Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the designated agency official (or designee) timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as the designated agency official (or designee) may determine to be necessary to enable the official to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with these Title IX regulations. In the case of any program under which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under these Title IX regulations. 


(c) *Access to sources of information.* Each recipient shall permit access by the designated agency official (or designee) during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with these Title IX regulations. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or person and this agency, institution or person shall fail or refuse to furnish this information the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information. Asserted considerations of privacy or confidentiality may not operate to bar the Department from evaluating or seeking to enforce compliance with these Title IX regulations. Information of a confidential nature obtained in connection with compliance evaluation or enforcement shall not be disclosed except where necessary in formal enforcement proceedings or where otherwise required by law.


(d) *Information to beneficiaries and participants.* Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of these Title IX regulations and their applicability to the program for which the recipient receives Federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations.



---

[N] [65 FR 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]




