# § 31.303   Substantive requirements.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Deinstitutionalization of status offenders and non-offenders (DSO).* Pursuant to section 223(a) (11) of the JJDP Act, the State shall:


(1) Describe its plan, procedure, and timetable covering the three-year planning cycle, for assuring that the requirements of this section are met. Refer to paragraph (f)(3) of this section for the rules related to the valid court order exception to this Act requirement.


(2) Describe the barriers the State faces in achieving full compliance with the provisions of this requirement.


(3) Apply this requirement to alien juveniles under Federal jurisdiction who are held in State or local facilities.


(4) Those States which, based upon the most recently submitted monitoring report, have been found to be in full compliance with section 223(a)(11) may, in lieu of addressing paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, provide an assurance that adequate plans and resources are available to maintain full compliance.


(5) [Reserved]


(d) *Separation.* (1) Pursuant to section 223(a)(12) of the JJDP Act the State shall:


(i) Describe its plan and procedure, covering the three-year planning cycle, for assuring that the requirements of this section are met. Separation must be accomplished architecturally or through policies and procedures in all secure areas of the facility which include, but are not limited to, such areas as admissions, sleeping, and shower and toilet areas. Brief and inadvertent sight or sound contact between juveniles alleged to be or found to be delinquent or those within the purview of 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(11)(A) and adult inmates in secure areas of a facility that are not dedicated to use by juveniles and which are nonresidential, which may include dining, recreational, educational, vocational, health care, sally ports or other entry areas, and passageways (hallways), would not require a facility or the State to document or report such contact as a violation. However, any contact in a dedicated juvenile area, including any residential area of a secure facility, between juveniles in a secure custody status and adult inmates would be a reportable violation.


(ii) In those instances where accused juvenile criminal-type offenders are authorized to be temporarily detained in facilities where adults are confined, the State must set forth the procedures for assuring no sight or sound contact between such juveniles and adult inmates.


(iii) Describe the barriers which may hinder the separation of alleged or adjudicated criminal type offenders, status offenders and non-offenders from adult inmates in any particular jail, lockup, detention or correctional facility.


(iv) Those States which, based upon the most recently submitted monitoring report, have been found to be in compliance with section 223(a)(12) may, in lieu of addressing paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, provide an assurance that adequate plans and resources are available to maintain compliance.


(v) Assure that adjudicated delinquents are not reclassified administratively and transferred to an adult (criminal) correctional authority to avoid the intent of separating juveniles from adult criminals in jails or correctional facilities. A State is not prohibited from placing or transferring an alleged or adjudicated delinquent who reaches the State's age of full criminal responsibility to an adult facility when required or authorized by State law. However, the administrative transfer, without statutory direction or authorization, of a juvenile offender to an adult correctional authority, or a transfer within a mixed juvenile and adult facility for placement with adult criminals, either before or after a juvenile reaches the age of full criminal responsibility, is prohibited. A State is also precluded from transferring adult offenders to a juvenile correctional authority for placement in a juvenile facility. This neither prohibits nor restricts the waiver or transfer of a juvenile to criminal court for prosecution, in accordance with State law, for a criminal felony violation, nor the detention or confinement of a waived or transferred criminal felony violator in an adult facility.


(2) [Reserved]


(e) *Removal of juveniles from adult jails and lockups.* Pursuant to section 223(a)(13) of the JJDP Act, the State shall:


(1) Describe its plan, procedure, and timetable for assuring that requirements of this section will be met.


(2) Describe the barriers that a State faces in removing all juveniles from adult jails and lockups, except as provided in section 223(a)(13).


(3)(i) Determine whether or not a facility in which juveniles are detained or confined is an adult jail or lockup. The JJDP Act prohibits the detention of juveniles in adult jails and lockups, except as otherwise provided under the Act and implementing OJJDP regulations. Juvenile facilities collocated with adult facilities are considered adult jails or lockups absent compliance with criteria established in paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(C)(*1*), (*2*), and (*4*) of this section.


(A) A collocated facility is a juvenile facility located in the same building as an adult jail or lockup, or is part of a related complex of buildings located on the same grounds as an adult jail or lockup. A complex of buildings is considered “related” when it shares physical features such as walls and fences, or services beyond mechanical services (heating, air conditioning, water and sewer).


(B) The State must determine whether a collocated facility qualifies as a separate juvenile detention facility under the criteria set forth in paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(C)(*1*), (*2*), and (*4*) of this section for the purpose of monitoring compliance with section 223(a)(12)(A), (13) and (14) of the JJDP Act.


(C) Each of the following criteria must be met in order to ensure the requisite separateness of a juvenile detention facility that is collocated with an adult jail or lockup:


(*1*) Separation between juveniles and adult inmates such that there could be no sustained sight or sound contact between juveniles and adult inmates in the facility. Separation can be achieved architecturally or through time-phasing of common use nonresidential areas; and


(*2*) Separate juvenile and adult programs, including recreation, education, vocation, counseling, dining, sleeping, and general living activities. There must be an independent and comprehensive operational plan for the juvenile detention facility which provides for a full range of separate program services. No program activities may be shared by juveniles and adult inmates. Time-phasing of common use nonresidential areas is permissible to conduct program activities. Equipment and other resources may be used by both populations subject to security concerns; and


(*3*) [Reserved]


(*4*) In States that have established standards or licensing requirements for juvenile detention facilities, the juvenile facility must meet the standards (on the same basis as a free-standing juvenile detention center) and be licensed as appropriate. If there are no State standards or licensing requirements, OJJDP encourages States to establish administrative requirements that authorize the State to review the facility's physical plant, staffing patterns, and programs in order to approve the collocated facility based on prevailing national juvenile detention standards.


(ii) The State must determine that all of the criteria are fully met. It is incumbent upon the State to make the determination through an on-site facility (or full construction and operations plan) review and, through the exercise of its oversight responsibility, to ensure that the separate character of the juvenile detention facility is maintained by continuing to fully meet the criteria set forth in paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(C)(*1*), (*2*), and (*4*) of this section.


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) An annual on-site review of the facility must be conducted by the compliance monitoring staff person(s) representing or employed by the State agency administering the JJDP Act Formula Grants Program. The purpose of the annual review is to determine if compliance with the criteria set forth in paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(C)(*1*), (*2*), and (*4*) of this section is being maintained.


(4) Those States which, based upon the most recently submitted monitoring report, have been found to be in full compliance with section 223(a)(13) may, in lieu of addressing paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, provide an assurance that adequate plans and resources are available to maintain full compliance.


(f) *Monitoring of jails, detention facilities and correctional facilities.* (1) *Elements of a compliance monitoring system.* Pursuant to section 223(a)(14) of the JJDP Act, and except as provided by paragraph (f)(7) of this section, the State shall:


(i) Describe its plan, procedure, and timetable for annually monitoring jails, lockups, detention facilities, and correctional facilities. The plan must at a minimum describe in detail each of the following tasks including the identification of the specific agency(s) responsible for each task.


(A) *Identification of monitoring universe:* This refers to the identification of all facilities which might hold juveniles pursuant to public authority and thus must be classified to determine if it should be included in the monitoring effort. This includes those facilities owned or operated by public and private agencies.


(B) *Classification of the monitoring universe:* This is the classification of all facilities to determine which ones should be considered as a secure detention or correctional facility, adult correctional institution, jail, lockup, or other type of secure facility.


(C) *Inspection of facilities:* Inspection of facilities is necessary to ensure an accurate assessment of each facility's classification and record keeping. The inspection must include:


(*1*) A review of the physical accommodations to determine whether it is a secure or non-secure facility or whether adequate sight and sound separation between juvenile and adult offenders exists and


(*2*) A review of the record keeping system to determine whether sufficient data are maintained to determine compliance with section 223(a)(11), (12) and/or (13).


(D) *Data collection and data verification:* This is the actual collection and reporting of data to determine whether the facility is in compliance with the applicable requirement(s) of section 223(a)(11), (12) and/or (13). The length of the reporting period should be 12 months of data. If the data is self-reported by the facility or is collected and reported by an agency other than the State agency designated pursuant to section 223(a)(1) of the JJDP Act, the plan must describe a statistically valid procedure used to verify the reported data.


(ii) Provide a description of the barriers which the State faces in implementing and maintaining a monitoring system to report the level of compliance with section 223(a)(11), (12), and (13) and how it plans to overcome such barriers.


(iii) Describe procedures established for receiving, investigating, and reporting complaints of violation of section 223(a)(11), (12), and (13). This should include both legislative and administrative procedures and sanctions.


(2) *Monitoring for compliance with DSO.* For the purpose of monitoring for compliance with section 223(a)(11)(A) of the Act, a secure detention or correctional facility is any secure public or private facility used for the lawful custody of accused or adjudicated juvenile offenders or nonoffenders, or used for the lawful custody of accused or convicted adult criminal offenders. Accused status offenders or nonoffenders in lawful custody can be held in a secure juvenile detention facility for up to twenty-four hours, exclusive of weekends and holidays, prior to an initial court appearance and for an additional twenty-four hours, exclusive of weekends and holidays, following an initial court appearance.


(3) *Valid court order.* For the purpose of determining whether a valid court order exists and a juvenile has been found to be in violation of that valid order all of the following conditions (in addition to the requirements set out in section 223(a)(23) of the Act) must be satisfied prior to secure incarceration:


(i) The juvenile must have been brought into a court of competent jurisdiction and made subject to an order issued pursuant to proper authority. The order must be one which regulates future conduct of the juvenile. Prior to issuance of the order, the juvenile must have received the full due process rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States.


(ii) The court must have entered a judgment and/or remedy in accord with established legal principles based on the facts after a hearing which observes proper procedures.


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) Prior to and during the violation hearing the following full due process rights must be provided:


(A) The right to have the charges against the juvenile in writing served upon him a reasonable time before the hearing;


(B) The right to a hearing before a court;


(C) The right to an explanation of the nature and consequences of the proceeding;


(D) The right to legal counsel, and the right to have such counsel appointed by the court if indigent;


(E) The right to confront witnesses;


(F) The right to present witnesses;


(G) The right to have a transcript or record of the proceedings; and


(H) The right of appeal to an appropriate court.


(vi) [Reserved]


(4) [Reserved]


(5) *Reporting requirement.* The State shall report annually to the Administrator of OJJDP on the results of monitoring for the core requirements in the JJDPA at 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(11), (12), and (13). The reporting period should provide 12 months of data for each federal fiscal year, for 85% of facilities within the State that are required to report compliance data, and States must extrapolate and report, in a statistically valid manner, data for the remaining 15% of facilities. The report shall be submitted to the Administrator of OJJDP by February 28 of each year, except that the Administrator may grant an extension of the reporting deadline to March 31st, for good cause, upon request by a State.


(i) To demonstrate the extent of compliance with section 223(a)(11)(A) of the JJDP Act, the report must include, at a minimum, the following information for the current reporting period:


(A) Dates covered by the current reporting period;


(B) Total number of public and private secure detention and correctional facilities, the total number reporting, and the number inspected on-site;


(C) The total number of accused status offenders and nonoffenders, including out-of-State runaways and Federal wards, held in any secure detention or correctional facility for longer than twenty-four hours (not including weekends or holidays), excluding those held pursuant to the valid court order provision as set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section or pursuant to section 922(x) of title 18, United States Code (which prohibits the possession of a handgun by a juvenile), or a similar State law. A juvenile who violates this statute, or a similar state law, is excepted from the deinstitutionalization of status offenders requirement;


(D) The total number of accused status offenders (including valid court order violators, out of state runaways, and Federal wards, but excluding title 18 922(x) violators) and nonoffenders detained in any adult jail, lockup, or nonapproved collocated facility for any length of time;


(E) The total number of adjudicated status offenders and nonoffenders, including out-of-state runaways and Federal wards, held for any length of time in a secure detention or correctional facility, excluding those held pursuant to the valid court order provision or pursuant to title 18 U.S.C. 922(x);


(F) The total number of status offenders held in any secure detention or correctional facility pursuant to the valid court order provision set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section; and


(G) The total number of juvenile offenders held pursuant to title 18 U.S.C. 922(x).


(ii) To demonstrate the extent to which the provisions of section 223(a)(11)(B) of the JJDP Act are being met, the report must include the total number of accused and adjudicated status offenders and nonoffenders placed in facilities that are:


(A) Not near their home community;


(B) Not the least restrictive appropriate alternative; and


(C) Not community-based.


(iii) To demonstrate the extent of compliance with section 223(a)(12) of the JJDP Act, the report must include, at a minimum, the following information for the current reporting period:


(A) Dates covered by the current reporting period;


(B) The total number of facilities used to detain or confine both juvenile offenders and adult inmates during the past 12 months and the number inspected on-site;


(C) The total number of facilities used for detention and confinement of both juvenile offenders and adult inmates which did not provide sight and sound separation;


(D) The total number of juvenile offenders and nonoffenders not separated from adult inmates in facilities used for the detention and confinement of both juveniles and adults;


(E) The total number of State approved juvenile detention centers located within the same building or on the same grounds as an adult jail or lockup, including a list of such facilities;


(F) The total number of juveniles detained in State approved collocated facilities that were not separated from the management, security or direct care staff of the adult jail or lockup;


(G) The total number of juvenile detention centers located within the same building or on the same grounds as an adult jail or lockup that have not been approved by the State, including a list of such facilities; and


(H) The total number of juveniles detained in collocated facilities not approved by the State that were not sight and sound separated from adult inmates.


(iv) To demonstrate the extent of compliance with section 223(a)(13) of the JJDP Act, the report must include, at a minimum, the following information for the current reporting period:


(A) Dates covered by the current reporting period;


(B) The total number of adult jails in the State AND the number inspected on-site;


(C) The total number of adult lockups in the State AND the number inspected on-site;


(D) The total number of adult jails holding juveniles during the past twelve months;


(E) The total number of adult lockups holding juveniles during the past twelve months;


(F) The total number of accused juvenile criminal-type offenders detained in adult jails, lockups, and unapproved collocated facilities in excess of six hours, including those held pursuant to the “removal exception” as set forth in 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(13)(B);


(G) The total number of accused juvenile criminal-type offenders detained in adult jails, lockups and unapproved collocated facilities for less than six hours for purposes other than identification, investigations, processing, release to parent(s), transfer to court, or transfer to a juvenile facility following initial custody;


(H) The total number of adjudicated juvenile criminal-type offenders detained in adult jails or lockups and unapproved collocated facilities in excess of six hours prior to or following a court appearance or for any length of time not related to a court appearance;


(I) The total number of accused and adjudicated status offenders (including valid court order violators) and nonoffenders detained in adult jails, lockups and unapproved collocated facilities for any length of time;


(J) The total number of adult jails, lockups, and unapproved collocated facilities in areas meeting the “removal exception” as noted in 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(13)(B), including a list of such facilities and the county or jurisdiction in which each is located;


(K) The total number of juveniles accused of a criminal-type offense who were held in excess of six hours but less than 24 hours in adult jails, lockups and unapproved collocated facilities pursuant to the “removal exception” as set forth in 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(13)(B);


(L) The total number of juveniles accused of a criminal-type offense who were held in excess of 24 hours, but not more than an additional 48 hours, in adult jails, lockups and unapproved collocated facilities pursuant to the “removal exception” as noted in 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(13)(B), due to conditions of distance or lack of ground transportation; and


(M) The total number of juveniles accused of a criminal-type offense who were held in excess of 24 hours, but not more than an additional 24 hours after the time such conditions as adverse weather allow for reasonably safe travel, in adult jails, lockups and unapproved collocated facilities, in areas meeting the “removal exception” as noted in 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(13)(B).


(6) *Compliance.* The State must demonstrate the extent to which the requirements of sections 223(a)(11), (12), and (13) of the Act are met.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) [Reserved]


(iii) In determining the compliance standards to be applied to States' compliance monitoring data, the Administrator shall take the average of the States' compliance monitoring data from not less than two years prior to the compliance reporting period with respect to which the compliance determination will be made (removing, when applicable, one negative outlier in each data collection period for DSO, separation, and jail removal) and apply a standard deviation of not less than one to establish the compliance standards to be applied, except that the Administrator may make adjustments to the methodology described in this paragraph as he deems necessary and shall post the compliance standards on OJJDP's website by August 31st of each year.


(7) *Monitoring report exemption.* States which have been determined by the OJJDP Administrator to have achieved full compliance with sections 223(a)(11)(A), (a)(13), and compliance with section 223(a)(12) of the JJDP Act and wish to be exempted from the annual monitoring report requirements must submit a written request to the OJJDP Administrator which demonstrates that:


(i) The State provides for an effective system of monitoring jails, law enforcement lockup, detention facilities, to enable an annual determination of State compliance with sections 223(a)(11)(A), (12), and (13) of the JJDP Act;


(ii) State legislation has been enacted which conforms to the requirements of sections 223(a)(11)(A), (12), and (13) of the JJDP Act; and


(iii) The enforcement of the legislation is statutorily or administratively prescribed, specifically providing that:


(A) Authority for enforcement of the statute is assigned;


(B) Time frames for monitoring compliance with the statute are specified; and


(C) Adequate procedures are set forth for enforcement of the statute and the imposition of sanctions for violations.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Annual performance report.* Pursuant to section 223(a)(22)(B), the State plan shall provide for submission of an annual performance report. The State shall report on its progress in the implementation of the approved programs, described in the three-year plan. The performance indicators will serve as the objective criteria for a meaningful assessment of progress toward achievement of measurable goals. The annual performance report shall describe progress made in addressing the problem of serious juvenile crime, as documented in the juvenile crime analysis pursuant to section 223(a)(7). The annual performance report must be submitted to OJJDP no later than June 30 and address all formula grant activities carried out during the previous complete calendar year, federal fiscal year, or State fiscal year for which information is available, regardless of which year's formula grant funds were used to support the activities being reported on, *e.g.,* during a reporting period, activities may have been funded from two or more formula grant awards.


(i) *Technical assistance.* States shall include, within their plan, a description of technical assistance needs. Specific direction regarding the development and inclusion of all technical assistance needs and priorities will be provided in the “Application Kit for Formula Grants under the JJDPA.”


(j) [Reserved]


(k) [Reserved]






