# ยง 3431.19   Payment and tax liability.

(a) *Loan repayment.* Loan repayments pursuant to a service agreement are made directly to a participant's lender(s) by the Secretary or the VMLRP service provider. If there is more than one outstanding qualified educational loan, the Secretary will repay the loans in the following order, unless the Secretary determines significant savings to the program would result from paying loans in a different order of priority:


(1) Loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education;


(2) Loans made or guaranteed by a State;


(3) Loans made by a School; and


(4) Loans made by other entities, including commercial loans.


(b) *Tax Liability Payments.* Tax payments equal to 39 percent of the total loan repayment amount will be credited directly to the participant's IRS (Federal tax) account simultaneously with each loan payment. The Secretary may make payments of an amount not to exceed 39 percent of the actual annual loan repayments made in a calendar year for all or part of the increased Federal, State, and local tax liability resulting from loan repayments received under the VMLRP. However, the Secretary may increase the cap, if appropriate. Supplementary payments for increased tax liability may be made for the actual amount of tax liability associated with the receipt of loan repayments under the VMLRP. Availability of these additional tax liability payments (*i.e.,* in excess of 39 percent or other approved cap) will be identified in the RFA and in the participant service agreement. Program participants wishing to receive tax liability payments will be required to submit their requests for such payments in a manner prescribed by the Secretary and must provide the Secretary with any documentation the Secretary determines is necessary to establish a program participant's increased tax liability. Tax liability payments in excess of 39 percent or other approved cap will be made on a reimbursement basis only.


(c) Under ยง 3431.19(a) and (b), the Secretary will make loan and tax liability payments to the extent appropriated funds are available for these purposes.




