# § 868.11   Public information.

(a) *General.* This section is issued in accordance with §§ 1.1 through 1.23 of the regulations of the Secretary in part 1, subpart A, of subtitle A of title 7 (7 CFR 1.1 through 1.23), and appendix A thereto, implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The Secretary's regulations, as implemented by this section, govern the availability of records of the Service to the public.


(b) *Public inspection and copying.* Materials maintained by the Service, including those described in 7 CFR 1.5, will be made available, upon a request which has not been denied, for public inspection and copying at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Grain Inspection Service, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250. The public may request access to these materials 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday except for holidays.


(c) *Indexes.* The Service shall maintain an index of all material required to be made available in 7 CFR 1.5. Copies of these indexes will be maintained at the location given in paragraph (b) of this section. Notice is hereby given that quarterly publication of these indexes is unnecessary and impracticable because the material is voluminous and does not change often enough to justify the expense of quarterly publication. However, upon specific request, copies of any index will be provided at a cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication.


(d) *Requests for records.* Requests for records under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) shall be made in accordance with 7 CFR 1.6 and shall be addressed as follows: Office of the Administrator, Federal Grain Inspection Service, FOIA Request, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96454, Washington, DC 20090-6454.


(e) *FOIA Appeals.* Any person whose request, under paragraph (d) of this section, is denied shall have the right to appeal such denial in accordance with 7 CFR 1.13. Appeals shall be addressed to the Administrator, Federal Grain Inspection Service, FOIA Appeal, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96454, Washington, DC 20090-6454.


(f) *Disclosure of information.* FGIS employees or persons acting for FGIS under the Act shall not, without the consent of the applicant, divulge or make known in any manner any facts or information acquired pursuant to the Act, regulations, or instructions except as authorized by the Administrator, by a court of competent jurisdiction, or otherwise by law.



---

[N] [53 FR 3722, Feb. 9, 1988, as amended 54 FR 5923, Feb. 7, 1989. Redesignated at 60 FR 16364, Mar. 30, 1995]




