# § 72.78   Nuclear material transaction reports.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, whenever the licensee transfers or receives or adjusts the inventory, in any manner, of special nuclear material as specified by § 74.15 and/or source material as specified by § 40.64 of this chapter, the licensee shall complete in computer-readable format a Nuclear Material Transaction Report as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of these instructions may be obtained either by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to *RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.* Each licensee who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next working day. Each licensee who receives the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format in accordance with instructions within ten (10) days after the material is received. Each ISFSI licensee who receives spent fuel from a foreign source shall complete both the supplier's and the receiver's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report, verify the identity of the spent fuel, and indicate the results on the receiver's portion of the form. These prescribed computer-readable forms replace the DOE/NRC Form 741 which have been previously submitted in paper form.


(b) Any licensee who is required to submit Nuclear Material Transactions Reports pursuant to § 75.34 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit the reports only as provided in that section instead of as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. 



---

[N] [59 FR 35621, July 13, 1994, as amended at 66 FR 51841, Oct. 11, 2001; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 32463, June 9, 2008; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]




