# § 158.612   Local cybersecurity talent market supplement (LCTMS).

(a) *General.* The Department may provide a DHS-CS employee a LCTMS to ensure the employee receives a sufficiently competitive salary, as described in § 158.610(a). A LCTMS accounts for the difference between a salary as determined under a salary structure, described in § 158.611, and the Department's determination as to what constitutes a sufficiently competitive salary for that local cybersecurity talent market. The Department determines whether a LCTMS is necessary, and establishes and periodically adjusts local cybersecurity talent markets and local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentages, based on the strategy, information, principles and practices, and priorities listed in § 158.602(a).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


(1) *Local cybersecurity talent market* means the cybersecurity talent market in a geographic area that the Department defines based on the talent market analysis described in § 158.403, and that may incorporate any pay locality established or modified under 5 U.S.C. 5304.


(2) *Local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentage* means a percentage the Department assigns to a local cybersecurity talent market to increase the amount of a salary provided under a salary structure.


(c) *Salary supplement.* A LCTMS is considered part of salary under this part and for purposes of applying the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604. A LCTMS is also basic pay for purposes under 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR, except for purposes of determining pay under 5 U.S.C. 7511 and 7512 and 5 CFR part 752.


(d) *Eligibility and termination.* (1) The Department determines eligibility for a LCTMS under this section and CTMS policy implementing this section. A DHS-CS employee is eligible for a LCTMS if the employee's official worksite, as determined under § 158.704, is located in a local cybersecurity talent market with an assigned local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentage for the salary structure under which the employee's salary is provided.


(2) The Department terminates a LCTMS a DHS-CS employee receives when the employee's official worksite, as determined under § 158.704, is no longer in a local cybersecurity talent market with an assigned local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentage, or the salary structure under which the employee's salary is provided no longer has an assigned local cybersecurity labor market supplement, or both.


(3) A reduction in salary for a DHS-CS employee because of a change in any LCTMS for that employee is not a reduction in pay for the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 7512 and 5 CFR part 752.


(e) *Limitation.* A DHS-CS employee may not receive, and is not entitled to, any portion of a LCTMS that would cause the employee's salary to exceed the applicable salary limitation assigned to the subrange of a salary structure as described in § 158.611 that contains the employee's salary, but the employee may receive the portion of such a LCTMS that would not cause the employee's salary to exceed the applicable salary limitation. A DHS-CS employee may receive a LCTMS that would cause the employee's salary to be in the extended range, described in § 158.613(c), only if the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range under § 158.613(c)(2) for that employee.






