# § 172.512   Freight containers and aircraft unit load devices.

(a) *Capacity of 640 cubic feet or more.* Each person who offers for transportation, and each person who loads and transports, a hazardous material in a freight container or aircraft unit load device having a capacity of 640 cubic feet or more shall affix to the freight container or aircraft unit load device the placards specified for the material in accordance with § 172.504. However:


(1) The placarding exception provided in § 172.504(c) applies to motor vehicles transporting freight containers and aircraft unit load devices,


(2) The placarding exception provided in § 172.504(c) applies to each freight container and aircraft unit load device being transported for delivery to a consignee immediately following an air or water shipment, and,


(3) Placarding is not required on a freight container or aircraft unit load device if it is only transported by air and is identified as containing a hazardous material in the manner provided in part 7, chapter 2, section 2.8, of the ICAO Technical Instructions (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(b) *Capacity less than 18 m 3 (640 cubic feet).* (1) Each person who offers for transportation by air, and each person who loads and transports by air, a hazardous material in a freight container or aircraft unit load device having a capacity of less than 18 m
3 (640 cubic feet) shall affix one placard of the type specified by paragraph (a) of this section unless the freight container or aircraft unit load device:


(i) Is labeled in accordance with subpart E of this part, including § 172.406(e);


(ii) Contains radioactive materials requiring the Radioactive Yellow III label and is placarded with one Radioactive placard and is labeled in accordance with subpart E of this part, including § 172.406(e); or,


(iii) Is identified as containing a hazardous material in the manner provided in part 7; chapter 2, section 2.8, of the ICAO Technical Instructions (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(2) When hazardous materials are offered for transportation, not involving air transportation, in a freight container having a capacity of less than 640 cubic feet the freight container need not be placarded. However, if not placarded, it must be labeled in accordance with subpart E of this part.




(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, packages containing hazardous materials offered for transportation by air in freight containers are subject to the inspection requirements of § 175.30 of this chapter.









---

[N] [Amdt. 172-29, 41 FR 15996, Apr. 15, 1976]


