# ยง 225.4   Program management and administration plan.

(a) Not later than February 15 of each year, each State agency shall submit to FNSRO a Program management and administration plan for that fiscal year.


(b) Each plan shall be acted on or approved by March 15 or, if it is submitted late, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the plan. If the plan initially submitted is not approved, the State agency and FNS shall work together to ensure that changes to the plan, in the form of amendments, are submitted so that the plan can be approved within 60 calendar days following the initial submission of the plan. Upon approval of the plan, the State agency shall be notified of the level of State administrative funding which it is assured of receiving under ยง 225.5(a)(3).


(c) Approval of the Plan by FNS shall be a prerequisite to the withdrawal of Program funds by the State from the Letter of Credit and to the donation by the Department of any commodities for use in the State's Program.


(d) The Plan must include, at a minimum, the following information:


(1) The State's administrative budget for the fiscal year, and the State's plan to comply with any standards prescribed by the Secretary for the use of these funds;


(2) The State's plan for use of Program funds and funds from within the State to the maximum extent practicable to reach needy children;


(3) The State's plans for providing technical assistance and training to eligible sponsors;


(4) The State's plans for monitoring and inspecting sponsors, feeding sites, and food service management companies and for ensuring that such companies do not enter into contracts for more meals than they can provide effectively and efficiently;


(5) The State's plan for timely and effective action against Program violators;


(6) The State's plan for ensuring the fiscal integrity of sponsors not subject to auditing requirements prescribed by the Secretary;


(7) The State's plan for ensuring compliance with the food service management company procurement monitoring requirements set forth at ยง 225.6(l);


(8) An estimate of the State's need, if any, for monies available to pay for the cost of conducting health inspections and meal quality tests;


(9) The State's plan to provide a reasonable opportunity for children to access meals across all areas of the State; and


(10) The State's plan for Program delivery in areas that could benefit the most from the provision of non-congregate meals, including the State's plan to identify areas with no congregate meal service, and target priority areas for non-congregate meal service.



---

[N] [54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13466, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72483, Dec. 28, 1999; 87 FR 57356, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90349, Dec. 29, 2023]




