# ยง 180.511   Acceptable results of inspections and tests.

Provided it conforms to other applicable requirements of this subchapter, a tank car is qualified for use if it successfully passes the inspections and tests set forth below conducted in accordance with this subpart. A representation of that qualification must consist of marking the tank in accordance with ยง 180.515.


(a) *Visual inspection.* A tank car successfully passes the visual inspection when the inspection shows no structural defect that may cause leakage from or failure of the tank before the next inspection and test interval.


(b) *Structural integrity inspection and test.* A tank car successfully passes the structural integrity inspection and test when it shows no structural defect that may initiate cracks or propagate cracks and cause failure of the tank before the next inspection and test interval.


(c) *Service life shell thickness.* A tank car successfully passes the service life shell thickness inspection when the tank shell and heads show no thickness reduction below that allowed in ยง 180.509(g).


(d) *Safety system inspection.* A tank car successfully passes the safety system inspection when each thermal protection system, tank head puncture resistance system, coupler vertical restraint system, and system used to protect discontinuities (e.g., breakage grooves on bottom outlets and protective housings) on the tank car conform to this subchapter and show no indication of a defect that may reduce reliability before the next inspection and test interval.


(e) *Lining and coating inspection.* A tank car successfully passes the lining and coating inspection and test when the lining or coating conforms to the owner's acceptance criteria.


(f) *Leakage pressure test.* A tank car successfully passes the leakage pressure test when all product piping, fittings and closures show no indication of leakage.


(g) *Hydrostatic test.* A Class 107 tank car, the inner tank of a Class 115 tank car, or a riveted tank car successfully passes the hydrostatic test when it shows no leakage, distortion, excessive permanent expansion, or other evidence of weakness that might render the tank car unsafe for transportation service.


(h) *Service equipment.* A tank car successfully passes the service equipment inspection and test when this equipment conforms to this subchapter and applicable provisions of Appendix D of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), and shows no indication of a defect that may reduce reliability during the qualification interval.



---

[N] [Amdt. 180-8, 60 FR 49079, Sept. 21, 1995, as amended by Amdt. 179-50, 61 FR 33256, June 26, 1996; 66 FR 45187, Aug. 28, 2001; 77 FR 37990, June 25, 2012]




