# ยง 130.350   SBDC advisory boards.

(a) *State/Regional Advisory Boards.* (1) The Lead Center will establish an advisory board to advise, counsel, and confer with the SBDC Director on matters pertaining to the operation of the SBDC network.


(2) This advisory board will be referred to as a State SBDC Advisory Board in a state/territory having only one recipient organization, and a Regional SBDC Advisory Board in a state having more than one recipient organization.


(3) These advisory boards must include small business owners and other representatives from the entire area of service.


(4) New Lead Centers must establish a State or Regional SBDC Advisory Board by the beginning of the second project period.


(5) A State or Regional SBDC Advisory Board member may also be a member of the National SBDC Advisory Board.


(6) The reasonable cost of travel of any Board member for official Board activities may be paid out of the SBDC's budgeted funds. Federal and program funds are not to be used to compensate advisory board members for non-travel related expenses such as time and effort.


(b) *National SBDC Advisory Board.* (1) The SBA will establish a National SBDC Advisory Board, appointed by the SBA Administrator, and comprised of members who are not Federal employees. The Board will elect a chairperson. Three members of the Board will be from universities, or their affiliates and the remainder will be from small businesses or associations representing small businesses. Board members will serve staggered three-year terms. The SBA Administrator may appoint successors to fill unexpired terms.


(2) The National SBDC Advisory Board shall advise and confer with SBA's AA/SBDCs on policy matters pertaining to the operation of the SBDC program. The Board shall meet with the AA/SBDCs at least semiannually.


(3) The reasonable cost of travel of any National SBDC Advisory Board member for official Board activities will be paid by SBA out of SBDC line-item program funds.


(4) Each member of the Board will be entitled to be reimbursed for expenses as a member of the Board.


(5) The Board will meet at least semiannually and at the call of the Chairman of the Board.



---

[N] [60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 76642, 76643, Nov. 7, 2023]








