# § 1045.112   What are the standards for evaporative emissions?

Fuel systems must meet the evaporative emission requirements of 40 CFR part 1060 as specified in this section. These standards apply over a useful life period of five years for personal watercraft and ten years for all other vessels and for portable marine fuel tanks.


(a) *Fuel line permeation.* Nonmetal fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.102 for EPA NRFL fuel lines as described in this paragraph (a).


(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the emission standard for fuel lines starts for vessels or portable marine fuel tanks with a date of manufacture on or after January 1, 2009.


(2) The emission standard for primer bulbs applies starting January 1, 2011.


(3) The emission standard for under-cowl fuel lines used with outboard engines apply over a phase-in period as specified in this paragraph (a)(3).


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the phase-in period is based on total length of fuel lines as specified in Table 1 to this section. For example, at least 30 percent of the length of under-cowl fuel lines used on your full lineup of 2010 model year outboard engines must meet the specified permeation standards. See § 1045.145(k) for administrative requirements related to this phase-in.


(ii) You may instead meet the permeation standards of this paragraph (a) by complying with the specified standards with 100 percent of your under-cowl fuel lines across your full lineup of 2011 model year outboard engines. In this case, the requirements of this part would not apply to under-cowl fuel lines before the 2011 model year. To use this option, you must notify the Designated Compliance Officer before December 31, 2009 of your intent to meet permeation standards on all your under-cowl fuel lines in the 2011 model year.


(b) *Tank permeation.* Fuel tanks must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.103. Portable marine fuel tanks must meet permeation standards starting January 1, 2011. Fuel tanks for personal watercraft must meet permeation standards starting in the 2011 model year. Other installed fuel tanks must meet permeation standards starting in the 2012 model year. Vessel manufacturers may generate or use emission credits to show compliance with the requirements of this paragraph under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program, as described in subpart H of this part. Starting in the 2014 model year for personal watercraft and in the 2015 model year for other installed fuel tanks, family emission limits may not exceed 5.0 g/m
2/day if testing occurs at a nominal temperature of 28 °C, or 8.3 g/m
2/day if testing occurs at a nominal temperature of 40 °C. These FEL caps do not apply to fuel caps that are certified separately to meet permeation standards. Portable marine fuel tank manufacturers may not generate or use emission credits under subpart H of this part.


(c) *Running loss.* The running loss requirements specified in 40 CFR part 1060 do not apply.


(d) *Diurnal emissions.* Installed fuel tanks must meet the diurnal emission requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.105. Fuel tanks for personal watercraft must meet diurnal emission standards starting in the 2010 model year. Other installed fuel tanks must meet diurnal emission standards for vessels produced on or after July 31, 2011, except as allowed by § 1045.625. Fuel tanks meeting the definition of *portable marine fuel tank* in § 1045.801 must comply with the diurnal requirements specified in 40 CFR part 1060 starting January 1, 2010.


(e) *Other requirements.* The requirements of 40 CFR 1060.101(e) and (f) apply to vessel manufacturers even if they do not obtain a certificate.


(f) *Engine manufacturers.* To the extent that engine manufacturers produce engines with fuel lines or fuel tanks, those fuel-system components must meet the requirements specified in this section. The timing of new standards is based on the date of manufacture of the engine.




