# § 363.168   What rules regarding registration apply to a converted savings bond?

(a) *Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration.* By converting a definitive bond of any eligible series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration to book-entry in TreasuryDirect ®, the owner has consented to the bond being governed by the rules regarding registration contained in subpart C of this part.


(b) *Savings bond of Series EE or Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.* By converting a definitive bond of Series EE or Series I registered in an owner with beneficiary form of registration to a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, the owner has consented to the bond being governed by the rules regarding registration contained in subpart C of this part.


(c) *Savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.* The registration of a converted savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration may be changed upon the request of the owner and the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account.


(d) *Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration.* The registration of a converted savings bond of any eligible series registered in the coowner form of registration may be changed upon the request of one coowner and the consent of the other coowner. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account.



---

[N] [70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]




