# ยง 721.11376   2-Alkenoic acid, 2-alkyl-, alkyl ester, polymer with 2-(dialkylamino)alkyl 2-alkyl-2-alkenoate, alkyl 2-alkyl-2-alkenoate and a-(2-alkyl-1-oxo-2-alken-1-yl)-o-alkoxypoly(oxy-1,2-alkanediyl), [(1-alkoxy-2-alkyl-1-alken-1-yl)oxy]trialkylsilane-initiated (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-alkenoic acid, 2-alkyl-, alkyl ester, polymer with 2-(dialkylamino)alkyl 2-alkyl-2-alkenoate, alkyl 2-alkyl-2-alkenoate and a-(2-alkyl-1-oxo-2-alken-1-yl)-o-alkoxypoly(oxy-1,2-alkanediyl), [(1-alkoxy-2-alkyl-1-alken-1-yl)oxy]trialkylsilane-initiated (PMN P-18-109) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the chemical substance in a manner that results in inhalation exposure.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=14.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 46555, Aug. 3, 2020]




