# § 228.307   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*dB(A)* means the sound pressure level in decibels measured on the A-weighted scale.


*Decibel (dB)* means a logarithmic unit of measurement that expresses the magnitude of a physical quantity (usually power or intensity) relative to a specified reference level. For the measurement of noise in this subpart, the reference level for the intensity of sound pressure in air is 20 micropascals.


*Foot-candle* means a one lumen of light density per square foot.


*HVAC* means heating, ventilation, and air conditioning.


*Lavatory* means a basin or similar vessel used primarily for washing of the hands, arms, face, and head.


*L*_eq_*(8)* means the equivalent steady state sound level that in 8 hours would contain the same acoustic energy as the time-varying sound level during the same time period.


*Nonwater carriage toilet* means a toilet not connected to a sewer.


*Occupant* means an employee or an MOW worker (both as defined in § 228.5) whose sleeping quarters are a camp car.


*Ppm* means parts per million.


*Potable water* means water that meets the quality standards prescribed in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's National Primary Drinking Water Standards set forth in 40 CFR part 141.


*Potable water system* means the containers, tanks, and associated plumbing lines and valves that hold, convey, and dispense potable water within a camp car.


*Toilet* means a chemical toilet, a recirculating toilet, a combustion toilet, or a toilet that is flushed with water; however, a urinal is not a toilet.


*Toilet room* means a room containing a toilet.


*Toxic material* means a material in concentration or amount of such toxicity as to constitute a recognized hazard that is causing or is likely to cause death or serious physical harm.


*Watering* means the act of filling potable water systems.




