# § 655.17   Emergency situations.

(a) *Waiver of time period.* The CO may waive the time period(s) for filing an *H-2B Registration* and/or an *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* for employers that have good and substantial cause, provided that the CO has sufficient time to thoroughly test the domestic labor market on an expedited basis and to make a final determination as required by § 655.50.


(b) *Employer requirements.* The employer requesting a waiver of the required time period(s) must submit to the NPC a request for a waiver of the time period requirement, a completed *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and the proposed job order identifying the SWA serving the area of intended employment, and must otherwise meet the requirements of § 655.15. If the employer did not previously apply for an *H-2B Registration,* the employer must also submit a completed *H-2B Registration* with all supporting documentation, as required by § 655.11. If the employer did not previously apply for a PWD, the employer must also submit a completed PWD request. The employer's waiver request must include detailed information describing the good and substantial cause that has necessitated the waiver request. Good and substantial cause may include, but is not limited to, the substantial loss of U.S. workers due to Acts of God, or a similar unforeseeable man-made catastrophic event (such as an oil spill or controlled flooding) that is wholly outside of the employer's control, unforeseeable changes in market conditions, or pandemic health issues. A denial of a previously submitted *H-2B Registration* in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 655.11 does not constitute good and substantial cause necessitating a waiver under this section.


(c) *Processing of emergency applications.* The CO will process the emergency *H-2B Registration* and/or *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and job order in a manner consistent with the provisions of this subpart and make a determination on the *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* in accordance with § 655.50. If the CO grants the waiver request, the CO will forward a Notice of Acceptance and the approved job order to the SWA serving the area of intended employment identified by the employer in the job order. If the CO determines that the certification cannot be granted because, under paragraph (a) of this section, the request for emergency filing is not justified and/or there is not sufficient time to make a determination of temporary need or ensure compliance with the criteria for certification contained in § 655.51, the CO will send a Final Determination letter to the employer in accordance with § 655.53.




