# § 306.0   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Octane rating* means the rating of the anti-knock characteristics of a grade or type of gasoline as determined by dividing by 2 the sum of the research octane number plus the motor octane number.


(b) *Research octane number and motor octane number.* These terms have the meanings given such terms in the specifications of ASTM D4814-15a, Standard Specification for Automotive Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel, (incorporated by reference, see § 306.13) and, with respect to any grade or type of gasoline, are determined in accordance with one of the following test methods or protocols:


(1) ASTM D2699-15a, Standard Test Method for Research Octane Number of Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel, and ASTM D2700-14, Standard Test Method for Motor Octane Number of Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel, (both incorporated by reference, see § 306.13) or


(2) ASTM D2885-13, Standard Test Method for Determination of Octane Number of Spark-Ignition Engine Fuels by On-Line Direct Comparison Technique, (incorporated by reference, see § 306.13).


(c) *Refiner* means any person engaged in the production or importation of automotive fuel.


(d) *Producer* means any person who purchases component elements and combines them to produce and market automotive fuel.


(e) *Distributor* means any person who receives automotive fuel and distributes such automotive fuel to another person other than the ultimate purchaser.


(f) *Retailer* means any person who markets automotive fuel to the general public for ultimate consumption.


(g) *Ultimate purchaser* means, with respect to any item, the first person who purchases such item for purposes other than resale.


(h) *Person,* for purposes of applying any provision of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 41 *et seq.,* with respect to any provision of this part, includes a partnership and a corporation.


(i) *Automotive fuel* means liquid fuel of a type distributed for use as a fuel in any motor vehicle, and the term includes, but is not limited to:


(1) Gasoline, an automotive spark-ignition engine fuel, which includes, but is not limited to, gasohol (generally a mixture of approximately 90 percent unleaded gasoline and 10 percent ethanol) and fuels developed to comply with the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.,* such as reformulated gasoline and oxygenated gasoline; and


(2) Alternative liquid automotive fuels, including, but not limited to:


(i) Methanol, denatured ethanol, and other alcohols;


(ii) Mixtures containing 85 percent or more by volume of methanol and/or other alcohols (or such other percentage, as provided by the Secretary of the United States Department of Energy, by rule), with gasoline or other fuels;


(iii) Ethanol flex fuels;


(iv) Liquefied natural gas;


(v) Liquefied petroleum gas;


(vi) Coal-derived liquid fuels;


(vii) Biodiesel;


(viii) Biomass-based diesel;


(ix) Biodiesel blends containing more than 5 percent biodiesel by volume; and


(x) Biomass-based diesel blends containing more than 5 percent biomass-based diesel by volume.


(3) Biodiesel blends and biomass-based diesel blends that contain less than or equal to 5 percent biodiesel by volume and less than or equal to 5 percent biomass-based diesel by volume, and that meet ASTM D975-07b, Standard Specification for Diesel Fuel Oils (incorporated by reference, see § 306.13), are not automotive fuels covered by the requirements of this part.


(j) *Automotive fuel rating* means—


(1) For gasoline, the octane rating.


(2) For an alternative liquid automotive fuel other than biodiesel, biomass-based diesel, biodiesel blends, biomass-based diesel blends, and ethanol flex fuels, the commonly used name of the fuel with a disclosure of the amount, expressed as the minimum percentage by volume, of the principal component of the fuel. A disclosure of other components, expressed as the minimum percentage by volume, may be included, if desired.


(3) For biomass-based diesel, biodiesel, biomass-based diesel blends with more than 5 percent biomass-based diesel, and biodiesel blends with more than 5 percent biodiesel, a disclosure of the biomass-based diesel or biodiesel component, expressed as the percentage by volume.


(4) For ethanol flex fuels, a disclosure of the ethanol component, expressed as the percentage by volume and the text “Use Only in Flex-Fuel Vehicles/May Harm Other Engines.”


(k) *Biomass-based diesel* means a diesel fuel substitute produced from nonpetroleum renewable resources that meets the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives established by the Environmental Protection Agency under 42 U.S.C. 7545, and includes fuel derived from animal wastes, including poultry fats and poultry wastes, and other waste materials, or from municipal solid waste and sludges and oils derived from wastewater and the treatment of wastewater, except that the term does not include biodiesel as defined in this part.


(l) Biodiesel means the monoalkyl esters of long chain fatty acids derived from plant or animal matter that meet: The registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives under 40 CFR part 79; and the requirements of ASTM D6751-10, Standard Specification for Biodiesel Fuel Blend Stock (B100) for Middle Distillate Fuels, (incorporated by reference, see § 306.13).


(m) *Biodiesel blend* means a blend of petroleum-based diesel fuel with biodiesel.


(n) *Biomass-based diesel blend* means a blend of petroleum-based diesel fuel with biomass-based diesel.


(o) *Ethanol flex fuels* means a mixture of gasoline and ethanol containing more than 10 percent but not greater than 83 percent ethanol by volume.



---

[N] [58 FR 41372, Aug. 3, 1993, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 73 FR 40162, July 11, 2008; 76 FR 19690, Apr. 8, 2011; 81 FR 2062, Jan. 14, 2016]




