# ยง 304.21   Federal financial participation in the costs of cooperative arrangements with courts and law enforcement officials.

(a) *General.* Subject to the conditions and limitations specified in this part, Federal financial participation (FFP) at the applicable matching rate is available in the costs of cooperative agreements with appropriate courts and law enforcement officials in accordance with the requirements of ยง 302.34 of this chapter. *Law enforcement officials* mean district attorneys, attorneys general, similar public attorneys and prosecutors and their staff, and corrections officials. When performed under agreement, which is reflected in a record, costs of the following activities are subject to reimbursement:


(1) The activities, including administration of such activities, specified in ยง 304.20(b)(2) through (8), (11), and (12);








(2) Reasonable and essential short term training of court and law enforcement staff assigned on a full or part time basis to support enforcement functions under the cooperative agreement.


(b) *Limitations.* Federal financial participation is not available in:


(1) Service of process and court filing fees unless the court or law enforcement agency would normally be required to pay the cost of such fees;


(2) Costs of compensation (salary and fringe benefits) of judges;


(3) Costs of travel and training related to the judicial determination process incurred by judges;


(4) Office-related costs, such as space, equipment, furnishings and supplies, incurred by judges;


(5) Compensation (salary and fringe benefits), travel and training, and office-related costs incurred by administrative and support staffs of judges;


(6) Costs of cooperative arrangements that do not meet the requirements of ยง 303.107 of this chapter.


(c) *Methods of determining costs.* The State IV-D agency has discretion with respect to the method of calculating eligible expenditures by courts and law enforcement officials under cooperative agreements. However, any method used must account for specific costs incurred on behalf of cases receiving services under the IV-D State plan.


(d) *When agreements take effect.* FFP is available in IV-D costs incurred as of the first day of the calendar quarter in which a cooperative agreement or amendment is signed by parties sufficient to create a contractual arrangement under State law.



---

[N] [47 FR 53017, Nov. 24, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 57284, Dec. 23, 1982; 50 FR 19656, May 9, 1985; 54 FR 30223, July 19, 1989; 64 FR 6252, Feb. 9, 1999; 81 FR 93567, Dec. 20, 2016]




