# ยง 682.304   Methods for computing interest benefits and special allowance.

(a) *General.* The Secretary pays a lender interest benefits and special allowance on eligible loans on a quarterly basis. These calendar quarters end on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year. A lender may use either the average daily balance method or the actual accrual method to determine the amount of interest benefits payable on a lender's loans. A lender shall use the average daily balance method to determine the balance on which the Secretary computes the amount of special allowance payable on its loans.


(b) *Average daily balance method for interest benefits.* (1) Under this method, the lender adds the unpaid principal balance outstanding on all loans qualifying for interest benefits at each actual interest rate for each day of the quarter, divides the sum by the number of days in the quarter, and rounds the result to the nearest whole dollar. The resulting figure is the average daily balance for qualified loans outstanding at each actual interest rate.


(2) The Secretary computes the interest benefits due on all qualified loans at each actual interest rate by multiplying the average daily balance thereof by the actual interest rate, multiplying this result by the number of days in the quarter, and then dividing this result by the actual number of days in the year.


(c) *Actual accrual method for interest benefits.* (1) Under this method, the lender computes the total unpaid principal balance outstanding on all qualified loans at each actual interest rate on each day of the quarter, multiplies this result by the actual interest rate, and divides this result by the actual number of days in the year, or, alternatively, 365.25 days. A lender who chooses to divide by 365.25 days must do so for four consecutive years.


(2) The interest benefits due for a quarter equal the sum of the daily interest benefits due, computed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for each day of the quarter.


(d) *Average daily balance method for special allowance.* (1) To compute the average daily balance outstanding for purposes of special allowance, the lender adds the unpaid principal balance outstanding on all qualified loans at each applicable interest rate for each day of the quarter, divides this sum by the number of days in the quarter, and rounds the result to the nearest whole dollar. The resulting figure is the average daily balance for the quarter for qualifying loans at each applicable interest rate.


(2) To compute the average daily balance of unpaid accrued interest for purposes of special allowance on loans covered by ยง 682.215(b)(7), the lender adds the unpaid accrued interest on such loans for each eligible day of the quarter, divides this sum by the number of days in the quarter, and rounds the result to the nearest whole dollar. The resulting figure is the average daily balance for the quarter for qualifying loans at the applicable interest rate. 


(3) The Secretary computes the special allowance payable to a lender based upon the average daily balance computed by the lender under paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.



---

[N] [57 FR 60323, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended at 73 FR 63254, Oct. 23, 2008]




