# § 149.20   Applicability.

(a) *In general.* (1) The requirements in subparts B, D, and H of this part apply to group health plans and health insurance issuers offering group or individual health insurance coverage (including grandfathered health plans as defined in § 147.140 of this subchapter), except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) The requirements in subpart E of this part apply to health care providers, health care facilities, and providers of air ambulance services.


(3) The requirements in subpart F of this part apply to certified IDR entities, health care providers, health care facilities, and providers of air ambulance services and group health plans and health insurance issuers offering group or individual health insurance coverage (including grandfathered health plans as defined in § 147.140 of this subchapter) except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The requirements in subpart G of this part apply to Selected Dispute Resolution Entities, health care providers, providers of air ambulance services, health care facilities and uninsured (or self-pay) individuals, as defined in subpart G.


(b) *Exceptions.* The requirements in subparts B, D, E, F, and H of this part do not apply to the following:


(1) Excepted benefits as described in §§ 146.145 and 148.220 of this subchapter.


(2) Short-term, limited-duration insurance as defined in § 144.103 of this subchapter.


(3) Health reimbursement arrangements or other account-based group health plans as described in § 147.126(d) of this subchapter.



---

[N] [86 FR 36970, July 13, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 56124, Oct. 7, 2021; 86 FR 66702, Nov. 23, 2021]




