# ยง 48.4041-10   Exemption for use as supplies for vessels or aircraft.

(a) *Application of exemption.* The tax imposed by section 4041 does not apply to any fuels which are sold for use or used as supplies for vessels or aircraft within the meaning of section 4221(a)(3) and (d)(3), and ยง 48.4221-4. In the case of a liquid sold for use as fuel in an aircraft, a tax-free sale may be made only if the requirements of ยง 48.4041-11 are met. For credit or refund of tax paid on fuels which have been sold or used as supplies for vessels or aircraft, see section 6416(b)(2)(B), section 6427, and paragraph (f) of this section.


(b) *Evidence required to establish exemption.* (1) In order to establish exemption from tax in the case of a sale of fuels for use as supplies for vessels or aircraft, it is necessary that the seller obtain from the owner, charterer, or authorized agent of the vessel or aircraft and retain in its possession a property executed exemption certificate in the form prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section. If fuel is sold tax free for use as supplies for civil aircraft employed in foreign trade or in trade between the United States and any of its possessions, the exemption certificate must show the name of the country in which the aircraft is registered.


(2) If only occasional sales of fuels are made to a purchaser for use which is exempt from tax as provided in this section, a separate exemption certificate must be furnished for each order. However, if sales are regularly or frequently made to a purchaser for such exempt use, a certificate covering all orders for a specified period not to exceed 12 calendar quarters is acceptable. Such certificates and proper records of invoices, orders, etc., relative to tax-free sales must be kept for inspection by the district director as provided in section 6001. If a seller's records with respect to any sale claimed to be tax free do not include a proper certificate, with supporting invoices and such other evidence as may be necessary to establish the exempt character of the sale, tax is payable by the seller on the sale.


(c) *Acceptable form of exemption certificate.* The following form of exemption certificate, which must be adhered to in substance, is acceptable for the purposes of this section.


(d) *Exemption certificate not obtained prior to filing of seller's excise tax return.* If the exemption certificate is not obtained prior to the time the seller files a return covering taxes due for the period during which the sale was made, the seller must include the tax on the sale in its return for that period. However, if the certificate is later obtained, a claim for refund of the tax paid on the sale may be filed on Form 843, or a credit for the tax paid may be taken upon a subsequent return as provided by section 6416(b)(2)(B) and ยง 48.6416(b)-2(c).


(e) *Liability of purchaser.* The person who purchases fuels tax free as provided in this section is liable for the tax imposed by section 4041 if the person sells or uses such fuel in a sale or use that is not exempt under any provision of law applicable to the taxes imposed by section 4041.


(f) *Credit or refund.* (1) If diesel fuel or special motor fuel upon which the tax imposed by section 4041(a) (1) or (2), has been paid, is sold or used as supplies for vessels, a credit or refund of the tax is available under section 6416(b)(2)(B) to the retail dealer who paid the tax. As an alternative, a credit or refund of tax is available under section 6427 to the operator of the vessel who used the fuel. Where the retail dealer claims refund of the tax, the dealer, in accordance with section 6416(a), must reimburse the operator of the vessel for the amount of tax or obtain the written consent of the operator to the filing of such claim.


(2) If aviation fuel upon which the tax imposed by section 4041(c) has been paid is sold or used as supplies for aircraft, credit or refund of the tax is available only as a payment under section 6427 to the operator of the aircraft who uses the fuel or to the person who resells the fuel for such use.



---

[N] [T.D. 8066, 51 FR 18, Jan. 2, 1986]




