# ยง 35.22   Limits for percentage adders in rates for transmission services; revision of rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to all electric rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements required to be filed under this part that are used for transactions in which the utility or system performs a transmission or purchase and resale function. 


(b) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, *purchased power price* means the amount paid by a utility or system that performs a transmission or purchase and resale function for electric power generated by another utility or system. 


(c) *General rule.* (1) If a utility or system uses a rate component that recovers revenues computed wholly or in part as a percentage of the purchased power price, the utility or system shall establish a limit on the revenues recovered by such rate component in any transaction, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) The limit established under this paragraph shall be stated in mills per kilowatt-hour. 


(d) *Cost support information.* (1) A utility or system shall submit cost support information to justify any revenue limit established under paragraph (c) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(2) The information submitted under this section shall consist of those costs, other than the purchased power price, incurred by a utility or system as a result of a transmission or purchase and resale transaction, which costs are not recovered under any other rate component. 


(e) *Exception.* A utility or system need not submit the cost support information required under paragraph (d) of this section if the limit established under paragraph (c) of this section is not more than one mill per kilowatt-hour. 


(f) *Revision of rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.* Every utility or system shall: 


(1) Amend any rate schedule, tariffs or service agreements to indicate any limit established pursuant to this section, not later than 60 days after the effective date of this rule; and 


(2) Hereafter conform any rate or rate change filed under this part to the requirements of this section. 



---

[N] [Order 84, 45 FR 31300, May 13, 1980. Redesignated by Order 545, 57 FR 53990, Nov. 16, 1992, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57533, Oct. 3, 2008]




