# § 761.30   Grant administration.

(a) *General.* Each grantee is responsible for ensuring that grant funds are administered in accordance with the requirements of this part 761, any specific Notices of Funding Availability (NOFAs) issued for these programs, 2 CFR part 200, applicable laws and regulations, applicable OMB circulars, HUD fiscal and audit controls, grant agreements, grant special conditions, the grantee's approved budget (SF-424A), budget narrative, plan, and activity timetable. 


(b) *Grant term extensions*—(1) *Grant term.* Terms of the grant agreement may not exceed 12 months for the Assisted Housing Program, and 24 months for the Public Housing Program, unless an extension is approved by the local HUD Office or local HUD Office of Native American Programs. Any funds not expended at the end of the grant term shall be remitted to HUD. 


(2) *Extension.* HUD may grant an extension of the grant term in response to a written request for an extension stating the need for the extension and indicating the additional time required. HUD will not consider requests for retroactive extension of program periods. HUD will permit only one extension. HUD will only consider extensions if the grantee meets the extension criteria of paragraph (b)(5) of this section at the time the grantee submits for approval the request for the extension. 


(3) *Receipt.* The request must be received by the local HUD Office or local HUD Office of Native American Programs prior to the termination of the grant, and requires approval by the local HUD Office or local HUD Office of Native American Programs with jurisdiction over the grantee. 


(4) *Term.* The maximum extension allowable for any program period is 6 months. 


(5) *Extension criteria.* The following criteria must be met by the grantee when submitting a request to extend the expenditure deadline for a program or set of programs. 


(i) *Financial status reports.* There must be on file with the local HUD Office or local HUD Office of Native American Programs current and acceptable Financial Status Reports, SF-269As. 


(ii) *Grant agreement special conditions.* The grantee must have satisfied all grant agreement special conditions except those conditions that the grantee must fulfill in the remaining period of the grant. This also includes the performance and resolution of audit findings in a timely manner. 


(iii) *Justification.* The grantee must submit a narrative justification with the program extension request. The justification must provide complete details, including the circumstances that require the proposed extension, and an explanation of the impact of denying the request. 


(6) *HUD action.* The local HUD Office or local HUD Office of Native American Programs will attempt to take action on any proposed extension request within 15 days after receipt of the request. 


(c) *Duplication of funds.* To prevent duplicate funding of any activity, the grantee must establish controls to assure that an activity or program that is funded by other HUD programs, or programs of other Federal agencies, shall not also be funded by the Drug Elimination Program. The grantee must establish an auditable system to provide adequate accountability for funds that it has been awarded. The grantee is responsible for ensuring that there is no duplication of funds. 


(d) *Insurance.* Each grantee shall obtain adequate insurance coverage to protect itself against any potential liability arising out of the eligible activities under this part. In particular, applicants shall assess their potential liability arising out of the employment or contracting of security personnel, law enforcement personnel, investigators, and drug treatment providers, and the establishment of voluntary tenant patrols; evaluate the qualifications and training of the individuals or firms undertaking these functions; and consider any limitations on liability under tribal, State, or local law. Grantees shall obtain liability insurance to protect the members of the voluntary tenant patrol against potential liability as a result of the patrol's activities under § 761.15(b)(5). Voluntary tenant patrol liability insurance costs are eligible program expenses. Subgrantees shall obtain their own liability insurance. 


(e) *Failure to implement program.* If the grant plan, approved budget, and timetable, as described in the approved application, are not operational within 60 days of the grant agreement date, the grantee must report by letter to the local HUD Office or the local HUD Office of Native American Programs the steps being taken to initiate the plan and timetable, the reason for the delay, and the expected starting date. Any timetable revisions that resulted from the delay must be included. The local HUD Office or local HUD Office of Native American Programs will determine if the delay is acceptable, approve/disapprove the revised plan and timetable, and take any additional appropriate action. 


(f) *Sanctions.* (1) HUD may impose sanctions if the grantee: 


(i) Is not complying with the requirements of this part 761, or of other applicable Federal law; 


(ii) Fails to make satisfactory progress toward its drug elimination goals, as specified in its plan and as reflected in its performance and financial status reports; 


(iii) Does not establish procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between drawdowns and disbursements; 


(iv) Does not adhere to grant agreement requirements or special conditions; 


(v) Proposes substantial plan changes to the extent that, if originally submitted, the applications would not have been selected for funding; 


(vi) Engages in the improper award or administration of grant subcontracts; 


(vii) Does not submit reports; or 


(viii) Files a false certification. 


(2) HUD may impose the following sanctions: 


(i) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the grantee or subgrantee; 


(ii) Disallow all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance; 


(iii) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award for the grantee's or subgrantee's program; 


(iv) Require that some or all of the grant amounts be remitted to HUD; 


(v) Condition a future grant and elect not to provide future grant funds to the grantee until appropriate actions are taken to ensure compliance; 


(vi) Withhold further awards for the program; or 


(vii) Take other remedies that may be legally available. 



---

[N] [61 FR 13987, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 80 FR 75941, Dec. 7, 2015]




