# ยง 511.16   How searches will be conducted.

You may be searched by any of the following methods before entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds:


(a) *Electronically.* (1) You and your belongings may be electronically searched for the presence of contraband, either randomly or upon reasonable suspicion.


(2) Examples of electronic searches include, but are not limited to, metal detectors and ion spectrometry devices.


(b) *Pat Search.* (1) You and your belongings may be pat searched either randomly or upon reasonable suspicion.


(2) A pat search of your person or belongings involves a staff member pressing his/her hands on your outer clothing, or the outer surface of your belongings, to determine whether prohibited objects are present.


(3) Whenever possible, pat searches of your person will be performed by staff members of the same sex. Pat searches may be conducted by staff members of the opposite sex only in emergency situations with the Warden's authorization.


(c) *Visual Search.* You and your belongings may be visually searched as follows:


(1) *Person.* (i) A visual search of your person involves removing all articles of clothing, including religious headwear, to allow a visual (non-tactile) inspection of your body surfaces and cavities.


(ii) Visual searches of your person must always be authorized by the Warden or his/her designee and based on reasonable suspicion; random visual searches are prohibited.


(iii) When authorized, visual searches will be performed discreetly, in a private area away from others, and by staff members of the same sex as the non-inmate being searched. Visual searches may be conducted by staff members of the opposite sex in emergency situations with the Warden's authorization.


(iv) Body cavity (tactile) searches of non-inmates are prohibited.


(2) *Belongings.* A visual search of your belongings involves opening and exposing all contents for visual and manual inspection, and may be done either as part of a random search or with reasonable suspicion.


(d) *Drug Testing.* (1) You may be tested for use of intoxicating substances by any currently reliable testing method, including, but not limited to, breathalyzers and urinalysis.


(2) Drug testing must always be authorized by the Warden or his/her designee and must be based on reasonable suspicion that you are under the influence of an intoxicating substance upon entering, or while inside, a Bureau facility or Bureau grounds.


(3) Searches of this type will always be performed discreetly, in a private area away from others, and by staff members adequately trained to perform the test. Whenever possible, urinalysis tests will be conducted by staff members of the same sex as the non-inmate being tested. Urinalysis tests may be conducted by staff members of the opposite sex only in emergency situations with the Warden's authorization.




