# ยง 203.37   Investigation and notification requirements.

(a) *Investigation of falsification of drug sample records.* A manufacturer or authorized distributor of record that has reason to believe that any person has falsified drug sample requests, receipts, or records, or is diverting drug samples, shall:


(1) Notify FDA, by telephone or in writing, within 5 working days;


(2) Immediately initiate an investigation; and


(3) Provide FDA with a complete written report, including the reason for and the results of the investigation, not later than 30 days after the date of the initial notification in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Significant loss or known theft of drug samples.* A manufacturer or authorized distributor of record that distributes drug samples or a charitable institution that receives donated drug samples from a licensed practitioner shall:


(1) Notify FDA, by telephone or in writing, within 5 working days of becoming aware of a significant loss or known theft;


(2) Immediately initiate an investigation into the significant loss or known theft; and


(3) Provide FDA with a complete written report, including the reason for and the results of the investigation, not later than 30 days after the date of the initial notification in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Conviction of a representative.* (1) A manufacturer or authorized distributor of record that distributes drug samples shall notify FDA, by telephone or in writing, within 30 days of becoming aware of the conviction of one or more of its representatives for a violation of section 503(c)(1) of the act or any State law involving the sale, purchase, or trade of a drug sample or the offer to sell, purchase, or trade a drug sample.


(2) A manufacturer or authorized distributor of record shall provide FDA with a complete written report not later than 30 days after the date of the initial notification.


(d) *Selection of individual responsible for drug sample information.* A manufacturer or authorized distributor of record that distributes drug samples shall inform FDA in writing within 30 days of selecting the individual responsible for responding to a request for information about drug samples of that individual's name, business address, and telephone number.


(e) *Whom to notify at FDA.* Notifications and reports concerning human prescription drugs or biological products regulated by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research shall be made to the Division of Compliance Risk Management and Surveillance, Office of Compliance, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002. Notifications and reports concerning human prescription biological products regulated by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research shall be made to the Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.





---

[N] [64 FR 67756, Dec. 3, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 48775, Aug. 11, 2004; 70 FR 14981, Mar. 24, 2005; 74 FR 13112, Mar. 26, 2009; 80 FR 18090, Apr. 3, 2015]




