# § 5001.521   Loss calculations and payment.

Unless the Agency anticipates a future recovery, the Agency will make a final settlement with the lender after the collateral is liquidated or after settlement and compromise of all parties has been completed. The Agency has the right to recover losses paid under the guarantee from any party that may be liable.


(a) *Report of loss form.* The lender must use the report of loss form for all estimated and final loss claim requests.


(b) *Estimated loss claim.* The lender must submit to the Agency a completed report of loss form for all estimated loss claims. In calculating the estimated loss, the lender must use the estimated or current appraised liquidation value of the collateral.


(c) *Estimated loss payment.* The Agency will approve estimated loss payments only after it has approved the lender's liquidation plan. For a loan which has been approved by the Agency for a debt write-down (or debt restructure), the maximum amount of loss payment will not exceed the percent of guarantee multiplied by the difference between the outstanding principal and interest balance of the loan before the write-down and the outstanding balance of the loan after the write-down.


(1) The amount of an estimated loss payment must be credited first as a deduction from the principal balance of the loan with any remaining balance to accrued interest.


(2) The estimated loss payment cannot be applied as a payment on the loan for purposes of reducing the unpaid balance owed by the borrower for status reporting or any debt collection actions against the borrower or any guarantors.


(d) *Reduction of loss claims payable.* (1) Negligent loan origination and negligent loan servicing will result in a reduction of loss claims payable under the guarantee to the lender if any losses have occurred as the result of such negligence. The Agency will assess against the lender any cost to the Agency associated with actions taken by the Agency necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the loan where a lender is not in compliance with its origination and servicing responsibilities. The extent of the reduction, which could be a total reduction of the loss claims payable, will depend on the extent of the losses incurred as a result of the negligent loan origination or servicing.




(2) Non-compliance with the requirements of *§ 5001.205(a)* or *§ 5001.305(a)* will result in a reduction of loss claims payable. The Agency's review of the non-compliance could result in a total reduction of the loss claim payable. The Agency's review of the non-compliance could result in a total reduction of the loss claim payable. The lender must ensure during loan making and project development that the project is designed utilizing accepted architectural and engineering practices and conforms to applicable Federal requirements including the seismic requirements of Executive Order 12699 (55 FR 835, January 5, 1990), State and local codes and requirements, and facility plans or plans and specifications reviewed and approved by the applicable State regulatory agency. The lender must also ensure that the planned project will be completed within the available funds and once completed, will be suitable for the borrower's needs.






(3) Any delinquent fees, including any interest due thereon, will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender.


(e) *Final loss claim.* Except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees as provided for in this section, the lender must submit a final report of loss to the Agency within 30 calendar days after liquidation of all collateral is completed. The Agency will not guarantee interest beyond the interest termination date or this 30-day period, other than for the period of time it takes the Agency to process the loss claim. The lender must apply the total amount of the loss payment remitted by the Agency to the guaranteed portion of the loan debt. At the time of final loss settlement, the lender must notify the borrower that the loss payment has been so applied. Such application does not release the borrower from liability. Once the lender receives a final loss payment from the Agency, the Agency will collect any outstanding debts owed to the government in accordance with part 3 of this title.


(1) *Loss.* In the event of a loss, the loan note guarantee will not cover—


(i) Interest to the lender accruing after the interest termination date;


(ii) Any interest accrued as the result of the borrower's default on the guaranteed loan over and above that which would have accrued at the Agency-approved promissory note rate on the guaranteed loan (*e.g.,* default interest rate); or


(iii) Any late fees, penalties, bond fees, interest rate swap charges, liquidation expenses, and other costs unless authorized under paragraph (e)(7) of this section.


(2) *Accounting of funds.* Before the Agency will approve a final report of loss, the lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. The lender must document and show that all the collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated, and that liquidation proceeds have been properly accounted for and applied correctly on the loan.




(3) *Audit.* Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The lender must make its records available to and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation or audit of the report of loss. The documentation accompanying the report of loss must support the amounts reported. The Agency must be satisfied that the lender has maximized the collections in conducting the liquidation.


(4) *Guarantees.* The lender must determine the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees required in accordance with § 5001.204 of this part. The lender must promptly collect or otherwise dispose of such guarantees prior to completion of the final loss report. However, if collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the lender must file the report of loss when all other collateral has been liquidated. Unsecured personal or corporate guarantees outstanding at the time of the submission of the final report of loss will be treated as a future recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a pro rata basis by the lender and the Agency.






(5) *Federal debt.* Any amounts paid by the Agency on account of liabilities of a borrower constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by the borrower. In such case, the Agency can use all remedies available to it to collect the debt from the borrower, including offset in accordance with part 3 of this title.


(i) Any amounts paid by the Agency pursuant to a claim by a lender constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by a third-party guarantor of the guaranteed loan, to the extent of the amount of the third-party guarantee. In such case, the Agency can use all remedies available to it to collect the debt from the third-party guarantor including offset in accordance with part 3 of this title.


(ii) The Agency may consider a compromise settlement of a debt owed to the Agency after it has processed a final report of loss and issued a 60-day due process letter. Any funds collected by the Agency will not be shared with the lender.


(6) *Protective advances.* In those instances where the lender made authorized protective advances, the lender can claim recovery for the guaranteed portion of any loss of monies advanced as well as interest resulting from such protective advances. These claims must be included in the final report of loss. The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of protective advances as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, evidence that the amount expended was proper, and that the amount was actually paid.


(7) *Liquidation expenses.* As provided in § 5001.517(e), certain reasonable liquidation expenses are allowed during the liquidation process. The lender cannot claim any liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.


(i) Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from liquidation proceeds. The Agency will deduct liquidation expenses from the liquidation proceeds of the collateral unless the costs have been previously determined by the lender (with Agency concurrence) to be protective advances. The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, evidence that the amount expended was proper, and that the amount was actually paid.


(ii) The Agency may approve legal fees as liquidation expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, require the assistance of attorneys, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the lender, its employees or in-house counsel. Approved legal expenses are limited by the Agency to an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the current principal balance and will be shared by the lender and Agency equally. This includes those instances where the lender has incurred such expenses from a trustee conducting the liquidation of assets. Legal fees in excess of 3 percent of the current principal balance shall be borne by the lender and are not recoverable from liquidation proceeds or any loss claim by the lender.


(iii) The lender cannot claim the guarantee fee or the other Agency fees as authorized liquidation expenses, and In-house expenses of the lender are not allowed.


(8) *Accrued interest.* If the lender holds all or a portion of the guaranteed loan, the Agency will guarantee accrued interest in accordance with § 5001.450(c) of this part.


(i) Accrued interest eligible for payment under the guarantee on a defaulted loan will be discontinued when the estimated loss is paid. Interest will not be paid beyond the interest termination date.


(ii) The lender must support accrued interest by documenting how the amount was accrued, including attaching a copy of both the promissory note and ledger. If the interest rate was a variable rate, the lender must include documentation of changes in both the selected base rate and the loan rate.


(iii) If a restructuring of a guaranteed loan includes the capitalization of interest, the guarantee will not cover the interest accrued on the capitalized interest.




(9) *Acquiring property titles.* If a lender acquires title to property, any loss will be based on the collateral value at the time the lender obtains title. Alternatively, the lender can calculate the final loss settlement using the net proceeds received at the time of the ultimate disposition of the property if—


(i) The lender has submitted to the Agency a written request to use this option within 15 calendar days of acquiring title; and


(ii) The Agency approves the request prior to the lender submitting any request for estimated loss payment.


(f) *Loss limit.* The amount payable by the Agency to the lender cannot exceed the limits contained in the loan note guarantee. If the lender conducts the liquidation, loss occasioned by accruing interest will be covered to the interest termination date, provided the lender proceeds expeditiously with the liquidation plan approved by the Agency. If the Agency conducts the liquidation, loss occasioned by accruing interest will be covered by the guarantee only to the date the Agency accepts this responsibility.


(g) *Rent.* The lender must apply any net rental or other income that it receives from the collateral to the guaranteed loan debt.


(h) *Final loss payment.* The Agency will make loss payments after it has reviewed the complete final report of loss, all collateral has been properly liquidated and accounted for, and the Agency has determined that liquidation expenses are reasonable and within approved limits.


(1) Any estimated loss payments made to the lender will be credited against the final loss payment on the guaranteed loan.


(2) Once the Agency approves the report of loss and supporting documents submitted by the lender—


(i) If the actual loss is greater than any estimated loss payment, the Agency will pay the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.


(ii) If the actual loss is less than the estimated loss payment, the lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the promissory note rate from the date of payment of the estimated loss.


(iii) If the Agency conducted the liquidation, it will provide an accounting to the lender and will pay the lender in accordance with the loan note guarantee.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]








