# § 5.705   Inspection requirements.

(a) *Procedures*—(1) *General.* Any entity responsible for conducting an inspection of HUD housing to determine compliance with this subpart, must inspect and score such HUD housing in accordance with the standards and procedures for identifying safe, habitable housing set out by the Secretary and published in the _Federal Register_ as described in § 5.711. The entity conducting the inspection shall identify each deficiency as “Life Threatening”, “Severe,” “Moderate”, or “Low.”


(2) *Inspection scope.* The inspection requirement for HUD housing generally requires the inside, outside and unit to be inspected, in accordance with § 5.703. The inspection requirement for the tenant-based HCV program and the unit inspection for the PBV and Moderate Rehabilitation programs only applies to units occupied or to be occupied by HCV, PBV, and Moderate Rehabilitation participants, and common areas and exterior areas which either service or are associated with such units.


(3) *HCV and PBV variant inspection standards.* (i) HUD may approve inspection criteria variations for the following purposes:


(A) Variations which apply standards in local housing codes or other codes adopted by the PHA; or


(B) Variations because of local climatic or geographic conditions.


(ii) Acceptability criteria variations may only be approved by HUD pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section if such variations either:


(A) Meet or exceed the performance requirements; or


(B) Significantly expand affordable housing opportunities for families assisted under the program.


(iii) HUD will not approve any inspection criteria variation if HUD believes that such variation is likely to adversely affect the health or safety of participant families, or severely restrict housing choice.


(iv) Approved variations must be added to the Administrative Plan as described in 24 CFR 982.54(d)(21).


(b) *Entity conducting inspections.* HUD housing must be inspected by the appropriate entity as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(1) *General.* The owner, lender, contract administrator, or HUD is the entity responsible for performing inspections of HUD housing as provided in this title, or a regulatory agreement or contract. For properties with more than one HUD-insured loan, only the first mortgage lender is required to conduct the inspection. The second mortgage lender will be provided a copy of the physical inspection report by the first mortgage lender.


(2) *Exception.* Under the HCV and PBV programs, the Public Housing Agency is responsible for inspecting HUD housing under those programs, unless another entity is assigned the inspection by the program regulations governing the housing, regulatory agreements or contracts. A PHA-owned unit receiving assistance under section 8(o) of the 1937 act must be inspected by an independent entity as specified in 24 CFR parts 982 and 983. Under the Moderate Rehabilitation program, the PHA is responsible for inspecting the HUD housing unless the PHA is managing units on which it is also administering the HAP Contract in accordance with 24 CFR 882.412, in which case HUD is responsible for the inspections in accordance with 24 CFR 882.516(d).


(c) *Timing of inspections*—(1) *Generally.* A property must be inspected before the property is approved for participation in any of the HUD housing programs under this part unless there is a program specific exception to this requirement. An entity responsible for conducting an inspection of HUD housing to determine compliance with this subpart must inspect such housing annually unless specified otherwise below. An inspection shall be conducted no earlier than 3 months before and no later than 3 months after the date marking the anniversary of the previous inspection, except that inspections due on or before July 1, 2024, shall be conducted no earlier than 6 months before and no later than 6 months after the date marking the anniversary of the previous inspection. HUD may approve requests by an owner or PHA for extensions of the deadline for an inspection for good cause as determined by HUD and HUD may extend inspection deadlines without owner request, as deemed necessary by the Secretary.


(2) *Extended inspection cycle.* HUD housing, except as specified below, shall be scored and ranked in accordance with the methodology provided through _Federal Register_ notification.


(i) *Standard 1 performing property.* If a property receives a score of 90 points or higher on its physical condition inspection, the property will be designated a standard 1 performing property. Properties designated as standard 1 performing properties will be required to undergo a physical inspection once every three (3) years.


(ii) *Standard 2 performing property.* If a property receives a score of 80 points or higher but less than 90 on its physical condition inspection, the property will be designated a standard 2 performing property. Properties designated as standard 2 performing properties will be required to undergo a physical inspection once every two (2) years.


(iii) *Standard 3 performing property.* If a property receives a score of less than 80 points, the property will be designated a standard 3 performing property. Properties designated as standard 3 performing properties will continue to undergo an annual physical inspection as currently required under covered HUD programs.


(3) *Triennial cycle for small rural PHAs.* Small rural PHAs as defined in 24 CFR 902.101 shall be assessed in accordance with part 902, subpart H of this title.


(4) *Triennial cycle for small PHAs.* Small PHAs as defined in 24 CFR 902.13(a) shall be assessed in accordance with 24 CFR 902.13(a).


(5) *Housing choice vouchers.* PHAs must inspect units subject to part 982 of this title in accordance with the frequency described in 24 CFR 982.405.


(6) *Project based vouchers.* PHAs must inspect units subject to 24 CFR part 983 in accordance with the frequency described in 24 CFR 983.103.


(7) *FHA insured mortgages section 232 facilities.* HUD may exempt assisted-living facilities, board and care facilities, and intermediate care facilities from physical inspections under this part if HUD determines that the State or local government has a reliable and adequate inspection system in place, with the results of the inspection being readily and timely available to HUD. For any other section 232 facilities, the inspection will be conducted only when and if HUD determines, on the basis of information received, such as through a complaint, site inspection, or referral by a State agency, on a case-by-case basis, that inspection of a particular facility is needed to assure protection of the residents or the adequate preservation of the project.


(8) *Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation program.* PHAs must inspect units subject to the Moderate Rehabilitation program under 24 CFR part 882 in accordance with the frequency described in 24 CFR 882.516.


(d) *Inspection costs.* The cost of an inspection shall be the responsibility of the entity responsible for the inspection as identified in paragraph (a) of this section, except that a reasonable fee may be required of the owner of a property for a reinspection if an owner notifies the entity responsible for the inspection that a repair has been made or the allotted time for repairs has elapsed and a reinspection reveals that any deficiency cited in the previous inspection that the owner is responsible for repairing was not corrected. No fee may be passed along to the household residing in the unit or units.


(e) *Access to property for inspection.* Nothing in this subpart shall restrict the right of HUD, or an entity contracted by HUD, to inspect a property. All owners and PHAs are required to provide HUD or its representative with full and free access to all HUD-assisted properties. All owners and PHAs are required to provide HUD or its representative with access to all units and appurtenances in order to permit physical inspections, monitoring reviews, and quality assurance reviews under this part. Access to the units shall be provided whether or not the resident is home or has installed additional locks for which the owner or PHA did not obtain keys. In the event that an owner or PHA fails to provide access as required by HUD or its representative, the owner or PHA shall be given a physical condition score of zero for the project or projects involved. A score of zero for an owner or PHA shall be used to calculate the physical condition indicator score and the overall assessment score for that owner or PHA.


(f) *Tenant involvement in inspections.* HUD will establish, through notice, a procedure for tenants to recommend to HUD particular units which HUD may choose to inspect either during or separate from its standard inspection. HUD will evaluate the condition of these units and issue a report on findings, but they will not be included in the official score unless they were randomly selected independent of the tenant's recommendation. The owner or PHA is required to correct any deficiency HUD identifies within the timeframes HUD has established for the identified deficiency.






