# § 725.160   Submission of health and environmental effects data.

(a) *Test data on the new microorganism in the possession or control of the submitter.* (1) Except as provided in § 725.25(h), and in addition to the information required by § 725.155(d)(3), each MCAN must contain all test data in the submitter's possession or control which are related to the effects on health or the environment of any manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the new microorganism or any microbial mixture or article containing the new microorganism, or any combination of such activities. This includes test data concerning the new microorganism in a pure culture or formulated form as used or as intended to be used in one of the activities listed above.


(2) A full report or standard literature citation must be submitted for the following types of test data:


(i) Health effects data.


(ii) Ecological effects data.


(iii) Physical and chemical properties data.


(iv) Environmental fate characteristics.


(v) Monitoring data and other test data related to human exposure to or environmental release of the new microorganism.


(3)(i) If the data do not appear in the open scientific literature, the submitter must provide a full report. A full report includes the experimental methods and materials, results, discussion and data analysis, conclusions, references, and the name and address of the laboratory that developed the data.


(ii) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, the submitter need only provide a standard literature citation. A standard literature citation includes author, title, periodical name, date of publication, volume, and page numbers.


(4)(i) If a study, report, or test is incomplete when a person submits a MCAN, the submitter must identify the nature and purpose of the study; name and address of the laboratory developing the data; progress to date; types of data collected, significant preliminary results; and anticipated completion date.


(ii) If a test or experiment is completed before the MCAN review period ends, the person must submit the study, report, or test, as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, to the address listed in § 725.25(c) within 10 days of receiving it, but no later than 5 days before the end of the review period. If the test or experiment is completed during the last 5 days of the review period, the submitter must immediately inform its EPA contact for that submission by telephone.


(5) For test data in the submitter's possession or control which are not listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a person is not required to submit a complete report. The person must submit a summary of the data. If EPA so requests, the person must submit a full report within 10 days of the request, but no later than 5 days before the end of the review period.


(6) All test data described under paragraph (a) of this section are subject to these requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results.


(b) *Other data concerning the health and environmental effects of the new microorganism that are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter.* (1) Except as provided in § 725.25(h), and in addition to the information required by § 725.155(c)(3), any person who submits a MCAN must describe the following data, including any data from a health and safety study of a microorganism, if the data are related to effects on health or the environment of any manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the microorganism, of any microbial mixture or article containing the new microorganism, or of any combination of such activities:


(i) Any data, other than test data, in the submitter's possession or control.


(ii) Any data, including test data, which are not in the submitter's possession or control, but which are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. For the purposes of this section, data are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter if the data are known to any of its employees or other agents who are associated with the research and development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the microorganism.


(2) Data that must be described include data concerning the new microorganism in a pure culture or formulated form as used or as intended to be used in one of the activities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) The description of data reported under paragraph (b) of this section must include:


(i) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, a standard literature citation, which includes the author, title, periodical name, date of publication, volume, and pages.


(ii) If the data are not available in the open scientific literature, a description of the type of data and summary of the results, if available, and the names and addresses of persons the submitter believes may have possession or control of the data.


(4) All data described in paragraph (b) of this section are subject to these requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results; and regardless of whether they are complete at the time the MCAN is submitted. 




