# ยง 292.2   How are key terms defined in this part?

For purposes of this part, all terms have the same meaning as set forth in the definitional section of IGRA, 25 U.S.C. 2703. In addition, the following terms have the meanings given in this section.


*Appropriate State and local officials* means the Governor of the State and local government officials within a 25-mile radius of the proposed gaming establishment.


*BIA* means Bureau of Indian Affairs.


*Contiguous* means two parcels of land having a common boundary notwithstanding the existence of non-navigable waters or a public road or right-of-way and includes parcels that touch at a point.


*Former reservation* means lands in Oklahoma that are within the exterior boundaries of the last reservation that was established by treaty, Executive Order, or Secretarial Order for an Oklahoma tribe.


*IGRA* means the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, as amended and codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721.


*Indian tribe or tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians that is recognized by the Secretary as having a government-to-government relationship with the United States and is eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, as evidenced by inclusion of the tribe on the list of recognized tribes published by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 479a-1.


*Land claim* means any claim by a tribe concerning the impairment of title or other real property interest or loss of possession that:


(1) Arises under the United States Constitution, Federal common law, Federal statute or treaty;


(2) Is in conflict with the right, or title or other real property interest claimed by an individual or entity (private, public, or governmental); and


(3) Either accrued on or before October 17, 1988, or involves lands held in trust or restricted fee for the tribe prior to October 17, 1988.


*Legislative termination* means Federal legislation that specifically terminates or prohibits the government-to-government relationship with an Indian tribe or that otherwise specifically denies the tribe, or its members, access to or eligibility for government services.


*Nearby Indian tribe* means an Indian tribe with tribal Indian lands located within a 25-mile radius of the location of the proposed gaming establishment, or, if the tribe has no trust lands, within a 25-mile radius of its government headquarters.


*Newly acquired lands* means land that has been taken, or will be taken, in trust for the benefit of an Indian tribe by the United States after October 17, 1988.


*Office of Indian Gaming* means the office within the Office of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, within the Department of the Interior.


*Regional Director* means the official in charge of the BIA Regional Office responsible for BIA activities within the geographical area where the proposed gaming establishment is to be located.


*Reservation means:*

(1) Land set aside by the United States by final ratified treaty, agreement, Executive Order, Proclamation, Secretarial Order or Federal statute for the tribe, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent;


(2) Land of Indian colonies and rancherias (including rancherias restored by judicial action) set aside by the United States for the permanent settlement of the Indians as its homeland;


(3) Land acquired by the United States to reorganize adult Indians pursuant to statute; or


(4) Land acquired by a tribe through a grant from a sovereign, including pueblo lands, which is subject to a Federal restriction against alienation.


*Secretarial Determination* means a two-part determination that a gaming establishment on newly acquired lands:


(1) Would be in the best interest of the Indian tribe and its members; and


(2) Would not be detrimental to the surrounding community.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or authorized representative.


*Significant historical connection* means the land is located within the boundaries of the tribe's last reservation under a ratified or unratified treaty, or a tribe can demonstrate by historical documentation the existence of the tribe's villages, burial grounds, occupancy or subsistence use in the vicinity of the land.


*Surrounding community* means local governments and nearby Indian tribes located within a 25-mile radius of the site of the proposed gaming establishment. A local government or nearby Indian tribe located beyond the 25-mile radius may petition for consultation if it can establish that its governmental functions, infrastructure or services will be directly, immediately and significantly impacted by the proposed gaming establishment. 




