# § 36.7   Acoustical change: Transport category large airplanes and jet airplanes.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to all transport category large airplanes and jet airplanes for which an acoustical change approval is applied for under § 21.93(b) of this chapter. 


(b) *General requirements.* Except as otherwise specifically provided, for each airplane covered by this section, the acoustical change approval requirements are as follows: 


(1) In showing compliance, noise levels must be measured and evaluated in accordance with the applicable procedures and conditions prescribed in Appendix A of this part. 


(2) Compliance with the noise limits prescribed in section B36.5 of appendix B must be shown in accordance with the applicable provisions of sections B36.7 and B36.8 of appendix B of this part. 


(c) *Stage 1 airplanes.* For each Stage 1 airplane prior to the change in type design, in addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the following apply: 


(1) If an airplane is a Stage 1 airplane prior to the change in type design, it may not, after the change in type design, exceed the noise levels created prior to the change in type design. The tradeoff provisions of section B36.6 of appendix B of this part may not be used to increase the Stage 1 noise levels, unless the aircraft qualifies as a Stage 2 airplane. 


(2) In addition, for an airplane for which application is made after September 17, 1971—


(i) There may be no reduction in power or thrust below the highest airworthiness approved power or thrust, during the tests conducted before and after the change in type design; and 


(ii) During the flyover and lateral noise tests conducted before the change in type design, the quietest airworthiness approved configuration available for the highest approved takeoff weight must be used. 


(d) *Stage 2 airplanes.* If an airplane is a Stage 2 airplane prior to the change in type design, the following apply, in addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) *Airplanes with high bypass ratio jet engines.* For an airplane that has jet engines with a bypass ratio of 2 or more before a change in type design—


(i) The airplane, after the change in type design, may not exceed either (A) each Stage 3 noise limit by more than 3 EPNdB, or (B) each Stage 2 noise limit, whichever is lower:


(ii) The tradeoff provisions of section B36.6 of appendix B of this part may be used in determining compliance under this paragraph with respect to the Stage 2 noise limit or to the Stage 3 plus 3 EPNdB noise limits, as applicable; and


(iii) During the flyover and lateral noise test conducted before the change in type design, the quietest airworthiness approved configuration available for the highest approved takeoff weight must be used.


(2) *Airplanes that do not have high bypass ratio jet engines.* For an airplane that does not have jet engines with a bypass ratio of 2 or more before a change in type design—


(i) The airplane may not be a Stage 1 airplane after the change in type design; and


(ii) During the flyover and lateral noise tests conducted before the change in type design, the quietest airworthiness approved configuration available for the highest approved takeoff weight must be used.


(e) *Stage 3 airplanes.* If an airplane is a Stage 3 airplane prior to the change in type design, the following apply, in addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) If compliance with Stage 3 noise levels is not required before the change in type design, the airplane must—


(i) Be a Stage 2 airplane after the change in type design and compliance must be shown under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, as appropriate; or 


(ii) Remain a Stage 3 airplane after the change in type design. Compliance must be shown under the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section. 


(2) If compliance with Stage 3 noise levels is required before the change in type design, the airplane must be a Stage 3 airplane after the change in type design.


(3) Applications on or after [August 14, 1989.] The airplane must remain a Stage 3 airplane after the change in type design.


(4) If an airplane is a Stage 3 airplane prior to a change in type design, and becomes a Stage 4 after the change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 4 airplane.


(5) If an airplane is a Stage 3 airplane prior to a change in type design, and becomes a Stage 5 airplane after the change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 5 airplane.


(f) *Stage 4 airplanes.* (1) If an airplane is a Stage 4 airplane prior to a change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 4 airplane after the change in type design.


(2) If an airplane is a Stage 4 airplane prior to a change in type design, and becomes a Stage 5 airplane after the change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 5 airplane.


(g) *Stage 5 airplanes.* If an airplane is a Stage 5 airplane prior to a change in type design, the airplane must remain a Stage 5 airplane after the change in type design.



---

[N] [Amdt. 36-7, 42 FR 12371, Mar. 3, 1977; Amdt. 36-8, 43 FR 8730, Mar. 2, 1978; Amdt. 36-10, 43 FR 28420, June 29, 1978; Amdt. 36-12, 46 FR 33464, June 29, 1981; Amdt. 36-15, 53 FR 16366, May 6, 1988; 53 FR 18950, May 25, 1988; Amdt. 36-17, 54 FR 21042, May 15, 1989; Amdt. 36-54, 67 FR 45212, July 8, 2002; Amdt. 36-26, 70 FR 38749, July 5, 2005; FAA Doc. No. FAA-2015-3782, Amdt. No. 36-31, 82 FR 46130, Oct. 4, 2017]




