# § 1.1297-2   Special rules regarding look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships.

(a) *Overview.* This section provides rules concerning the treatment of income and assets of a look-through subsidiary (as defined in § 1.1297-2(g)(3)) or look-through partnership (as defined in § 1.1297-2(g)(4)) for purposes of determining whether a tested foreign corporation (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(9)) is a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) under section 1297(a). Paragraph (b) of this section provides guidance for purposes of section 1297(c) on how to determine a tested foreign corporation's ownership in a corporation and how to determine a tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a look-through subsidiary's or look-through partnership's assets and income. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules that eliminate certain income and assets related to look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships for purposes of determining a tested foreign corporation's PFIC status. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a rule to determine whether certain income received or accrued by look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships is received or accrued from a related person for purposes of section 1297(b)(2)(C). Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules concerning the attribution of activities from qualified affiliates (as defined in § 1.1297-2(e)(2)) for purposes of characterizing the income and assets of a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for determining the amount of gain from the direct or indirect sale or exchange of stock of a look-through subsidiary or partnership interests in a partnership described in section 954(c)(4) that is taken into account under section 1297(a) and for determining the passive or non-passive character of gain from the sale of a look-through subsidiary. Paragraph (g) of this section provides definitions applicable for this section, and paragraph (h) of this section provides the applicability date of this section.


(b) *General rules*—(1) *Tested foreign corporation's ownership of a corporation.* For purposes of section 1297(c) and this section, the principles of section 958(a) and the regulations in this chapter under that section applicable to determining direct or indirect ownership by value apply to determine a tested foreign corporation's percentage ownership (by value) in the stock of another corporation. These principles apply whether an intermediate entity is domestic or foreign.


(2) *Tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of the assets and income of a look-through subsidiary*—(i) *Proportionate share of subsidiary assets.* For each measuring period (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(2)), a tested foreign corporation is treated as if it held its proportionate share of each asset of a look-through subsidiary, determined based on the tested foreign corporation's percentage ownership (by value) (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section)) of the look-through subsidiary on the measuring date (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(1)). A tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a look-through subsidiary's asset is treated as producing passive income, or being held to produce passive income, to the extent the asset produced, or was held to produce, passive income in the hands of such look-through subsidiary under the rules of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Proportionate share of subsidiary income*—(A) *General rule.* A tested foreign corporation is treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of each item of gross income or loss of a corporation for a taxable year if the corporation is a look-through subsidiary with respect to the tested foreign corporation for the taxable year of the tested foreign corporation. In such case, a tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a look-through subsidiary's gross income or loss is determined based on the corporation's average percentage ownership (by value) of the look-through subsidiary. The exceptions to passive income in section 1297(b)(2) and the relevant exceptions to foreign personal holding company income in section 954(c) that are based on whether income is derived in the active conduct of a business or whether a corporation is engaged in the active conduct of a business apply to such income only if the exception would have applied to exclude the income from passive income or foreign personal holding company income in the hands of the subsidiary, determined by taking into account only the activities of the subsidiary except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules determining whether a person is a related person for purposes of applying section 1297(b)(2)(C) in the case of income received or accrued by a subsidiary that is treated as received directly by a tested foreign corporation pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2).


(B) *Partial year.* When a corporation is not a look-through subsidiary with respect to a tested foreign corporation for an entire taxable year of the tested foreign corporation, the tested foreign corporation may be treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of the gross income or loss of the first corporation for each measuring period in the year for which the first corporation is a look-through subsidiary, if the conditions in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section are satisfied. In such case, a tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a look-through subsidiary's gross income or loss is determined based on the tested foreign corporation's percentage ownership (by value) (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of the look-through subsidiary on the relevant measuring date.


(iii) *Coordination of section 1297(c) with section 1298(b)(7).* A tested foreign corporation is not treated under section 1297(c) and this paragraph (b) as holding its proportionate share of the assets of a domestic corporation, or receiving directly its proportionate share of the gross income or loss of the domestic corporation, if the stock of the domestic corporation is treated as an asset that is not a passive asset (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(5)) that produces income that is not passive income (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(6)) under section 1298(b)(7) (concerning the treatment of certain foreign corporations owning stock in certain 25-percent-owned domestic corporations). See § 1.1298-4 for rules governing the application of section 1298(b)(7).


(3) *Tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of the assets and income of a look-through partnership*—(i) *Proportionate share of partnership assets.* For each measuring period (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(2)), a tested foreign corporation is treated as if it held its proportionate share of each asset of a look-through partnership, determined based on the tested foreign corporation's percentage ownership (by value) (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of the look-through partnership on the measuring date (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(1)). A tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a look-through partnership's asset is treated as producing passive income, or being held to produce passive income, to the extent the asset produced, or was held to produce, passive income in the hands of the partnership under the rules in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Proportionate share of partnership income*—(A) *General rule.* A tested foreign corporation is treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of any item of gross income or loss of a partnership that is a look-through partnership with respect to the tested foreign corporation for the taxable year of the tested foreign corporation. The exceptions to passive income in section 1297(b)(2) and the relevant exceptions to foreign personal holding company income in section 954(c) that are based on whether income is derived in the active conduct of a business or whether a corporation is engaged in the active conduct of a business apply to such income only if the exception would have applied to exclude the income from passive income or foreign personal holding company income in the hands of the partnership, determined by taking into account only the activities of the partnership except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules determining whether a person is a related person for purposes of applying section 1297(b)(2)(C) in the case of income received or accrued by a partnership that is treated as received directly by a tested foreign corporation pursuant to this paragraph (b)(3).


(B) *Partial year.* When a partnership is not a look-through partnership with respect to a tested foreign corporation for an entire taxable year of the tested foreign corporation, the tested foreign corporation may be treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of the gross income of the partnership for each measuring period in the year for which the partnership is a look-through partnership, provided that the conditions set forth in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section would be satisfied if the partnership were a corporation.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (b). For purposes of these examples, USP is a domestic corporation; TFC, LTS, and FS are foreign corporations that are not controlled foreign corporations within the meaning of section 957(a); USP owns 30% of TFC; and LTS owns 25% of the only class of FS stock.


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 80% of the only class of LTS stock for TFC's and LTS's entire taxable year.


(B) *Results*—(*1*) *LTS.* Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and pursuant to the principles of section 958(a), LTS owns 25% of the value of FS. Under paragraph (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, in determining whether LTS is a PFIC under section 1297(a), LTS is treated as if it held 25% of each of FS's assets on each of the measuring dates in its taxable year and received directly 25% of the gross income of FS for the taxable year.


(*2*) *TFC.* Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and pursuant to the principles of section 958(a), TFC owns 80% of the value of LTS and indirectly owns 20% of the value of FS. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in determining whether TFC is a PFIC under section 1297(a), TFC is treated as if it held 80% of each of LTS's assets on each of the measuring dates in its taxable year and received directly 80% of the gross income of LTS for the taxable year. However, because TFC indirectly owns less than 25% of FS, FS is not a look-through subsidiary with respect to TFC and, therefore, TFC is treated as if it held a 20% interest in the stock of FS (and not the assets of FS), and received 80% of any dividends paid from FS to LTS (and not any income of FS).


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 25% of the only class of LTS stock on the last day of each of the first three quarters of its taxable year but disposes of its entire interest in LTS during the fourth quarter of its taxable year.


(B) *Results.* Under paragraph (b)(1) and pursuant to the principles of section 958(a), on each of its first three measuring dates, TFC owns 25% of the value of LTS and indirectly owns 6.25% of the value of FS. Under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, if information about the gross income of LTS for each of the first three quarters of its taxable year is available to TFC, LTS is treated as a look-through subsidiary with respect to TFC for those quarters because TFC owned 25% of the value of LTS on the measuring dates with respect to those measuring periods. In that case, under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in determining whether TFC is a PFIC under section 1297(a), TFC is treated as if it held 25% of each of LTS's assets and received directly 25% of the gross income of LTS on each of the first three measuring dates in its taxable year. For each of its first three quarters, if LTS is treated as a look-through subsidiary with respect to TFC under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, then TFC is treated as if it held a 6.25% interest in the stock of FS (and not the assets of FS) and received 25% of any dividends paid from FS to LTS (and not any income of FS). Under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, if information about the gross income of LTS for each of the first three quarters of its taxable year is not available to TFC, then LTS is not a look-through subsidiary with respect to TFC.


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 100% of the only class of LTS stock for TFC's and LTS's entire taxable year. TFC sells one item of property described in section 954(c)(1)(B)(i) for a gain of $25x and another for a loss of $10x, and no exception from passive income applies to either amount. During the taxable year, FS sells one item of property described in section 954(c)(1)(B)(i) for a gain of $50x and another for a loss of $55x; no exception from passive income applies to either amount.


(B) *Results.* Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and pursuant to the principles of section 958(a), TFC owns 100% of the value of LTS, and TFC indirectly owns 25% of the value of FS. Under paragraph (b) of this section, in determining whether TFC is a PFIC under section 1297(a), TFC is treated as if it held 100% of LTS's assets on each of the measuring dates in its taxable year and received directly 100% of the gross income of LTS for the taxable year. Furthermore, TFC is treated as if it held 25% of each of FS's assets and received directly 25% of the gross income of FS. Pursuant to § 1.1297-1(c)(1)(ii), the excess of gains over losses from property transactions described in section 954(c)(1)(B) is taken into account as gross income for purposes of section 1297, and items of gain or loss of look-through subsidiaries are treated as recognized by a tested foreign corporation. Accordingly, TFC takes into account the net $5x loss from the sales of property by FS. TFC's income from its own sales of property constitutes passive income pursuant to § 1.1297-1(c) and section 954(c)(1)(B), although, pursuant to § 1.1297-1(c)(1)(ii), only the excess of gains over losses, $15x ($25x − $10x), is taken into account as gross income for purposes of section 1297. As a result, TFC's income (including the $5x loss from FS), all of which is passive income, equals $10x ($15x − $5x) of gross income.


(c) *Elimination of certain intercompany assets and income*—(1) *General rule for asset test*—(i) *LTS stock.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(2), a tested foreign corporation does not take into account the value (or adjusted basis) of stock of a look-through subsidiary (*LTS stock*), including LTS stock that the tested foreign corporation is treated as owning on a measuring date pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section. Furthermore, for purposes of section 1297(a)(2), a tested foreign corporation does not take into account the value (or adjusted basis) of its own stock that it is treated as owning on a measuring date pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section.


(ii) *LTS obligation.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(2), a tested foreign corporation does not take into account the value (or adjusted basis) of its proportionate share of a direct LTS obligation, an indirect LTS obligation or a TFC obligation that it is treated as owning on a measuring date. The term *direct LTS obligation* means a debt obligation of, lease to, or license to a look-through subsidiary (*LTS debt, LTS lease,* and *LTS license,* respectively, and *LTS obligation* collectively) from the tested foreign corporation that the tested foreign corporation owns on a measuring date, and the term *indirect LTS obligation* means a LTS obligation from a look-through subsidiary that the tested foreign corporation is treated as owning on a measuring date pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section. The term *TFC obligation* means a debt obligation of, lease to, or a license to the tested foreign corporation from a look-through subsidiary that the tested foreign corporation is treated as owning on a measuring date pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section. The tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a LTS obligation or a TFC obligation is the value (or adjusted basis) of the item multiplied by the tested foreign corporation's percentage ownership (by value) in each relevant look-through subsidiary. For purposes of section 1297(a)(2) and § 1.1297-1(d) as applied to a tested foreign corporation, property subject to a LTS lease or LTS license or a lease or license to the tested foreign corporation is characterized as either producing passive income or non-passive income (or both) by taking into account the activities of the qualified affiliates (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) of the entity that owns the property. For this purpose, the activities of the entity that owns the property that is subject to the lease or license are not taken into account to the extent that they relate to the lease or license.


(2) *General rule for income test*—(i) *LTS stock.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(1), a tested foreign corporation does not take into account dividends derived with respect to LTS stock, including dividends that the tested foreign corporation is treated as receiving on a measuring date pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a tested foreign corporation takes into account dividends that are attributable to income that was not treated as received directly by the tested foreign corporation pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For this purpose, the rules of § 1.1297-1(c)(4)(iv)(A) apply to determine the earnings and profits from which a dividend is paid, substituting the term “look-through subsidiary” for “related person.”


(ii) *LTS obligation.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(1), a tested foreign corporation does not take into account its proportionate share of interest, rents, or royalties derived with respect to direct or indirect LTS obligations or TFC obligations. The tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of interest, rents, or royalties is the amount of the item multiplied by the tested foreign corporation's percentage ownership (by value) in each relevant look-through subsidiary.


(3) *Partnerships.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(1) and (a)(2), the principles of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply with respect to ownership interests in, debt of, and leases or licenses to a look-through partnership (as defined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section), and with respect to distributions and the distributive shares of income from a look-through partnership and interest, rents, or royalties derived with respect to the debt, leases or licenses of a look-through partnership.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (c). For purposes of these examples, USP is a domestic corporation; USP owns 30% of TFC; TFC, LTS, LTS1, LTS2, and FS are foreign corporations that are not controlled foreign corporations within the meaning of section 957(a); FPS is a foreign partnership; and TFC, LTS1, and LTS2 measure assets for purposes of section 1297(a)(2) based on value.


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 80% of the only class of LTS stock for TFC's and LTS's entire taxable year, and LTS is a look-through subsidiary (as defined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section) with respect to TFC. LTS owns 25% of the only class of FS stock, and FS is a look-through subsidiary with respect to LTS. Pursuant to the principles of section 958(a), TFC owns 80% of the value of LTS, LTS owns 25% of the value of FS, and TFC indirectly owns 20% of the value of FS. During the first quarter of the taxable year, LTS received a $20x dividend from FS.


(B) *Results*—(*1*) *LTS.* Under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(2) to LTS, LTS's assets do not include the stock of FS. Under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(1) to LTS, LTS's income does not include the $20x dividend from FS.


(*2*) *TFC.* Under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(2) to TFC, TFC's assets do not include the stock of LTS. Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(1) to TFC, TFC is treated as receiving directly the income of LTS. Because TFC indirectly owns less than 25% of FS, FS is not a look-through subsidiary with respect to TFC and, therefore, TFC's assets include the value of TFC's 20% interest in the stock of FS and do not include 20% of FS's assets. Similarly, TFC is treated as if it received $16x (80% × $20x) of the $20x dividend paid from FS to LTS (and not any income of FS). Because the dividend constitutes gross income to LTS (although it is eliminated for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(1) to LTS), TFC is treated as receiving the dividend from FS directly under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. Because the dividend is from a subsidiary that is not a look-through subsidiary with respect to TFC, paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to eliminate the $16x dividend for purposes of section 1297(a).


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 40% of the value of LTS1 stock on each of the measuring dates, and thus is treated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section as owning 40% of LTS1's assets on each of the measuring dates. TFC's assets include a loan to LTS1 with a balance of $1,000x on each of the measuring dates. During the first quarter of the taxable year, TFC received $20x of dividends from LTS1, which were attributable to income of LTS1 treated as received directly by TFC pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and $30x of interest on the loan, both of which were paid in cash.


(B) *Results.* Under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a), TFC's assets do not include the stock of LTS1, and TFC's income does not include the $20x of dividends received from LTS1 pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. Similarly, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section TFC's assets include only $600x ($1,000x loan −(40% × $1,000x)) of the loan to LTS1, and under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, TFC's income includes only $18x ($30x interest − (40% × $30x)) of the interest from LTS1. However, TFC's assets include the entire $50x of cash ($20x of dividends and $30x of interest) received from LTS1.


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 2*), except that TFC also directly owns 30% of the value of LTS2 stock on each of the measuring dates, and thus is treated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section as owning 30% of LTS2's assets, and LTS1's assets also include a loan to LTS2 with a balance of $200x on each of the measuring dates. During the first quarter of the taxable year, LTS1 received $5x of interest on the loan, which was paid in cash.


(B) *Results.* 

The results are the same as in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section (the results in *Example 2*), except that TFC's assets also do not include the stock of LTS2. Similarly, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as owning $80x (40% × $200x) of the LTS1 loan to LTS2, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of an indirect LTS obligation and accordingly, TFC does not take into account $24x (30% × $80x) of the loan to LTS2. As a result, TFC's assets include only $56x ($80x − $24x) of the LTS1 loan to LTS2. Furthermore, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as receiving $2x (40% × $5x) of the interest received by LTS1 from LTS2, under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of interest with respect to an indirect LTS obligation and thus, TFC does not take into account $0.60x (30% × $2x) of the interest received by LTS1. Accordingly, TFC's income includes only $1.40x ($2x − $0.60x) of the interest from LTS2. Furthermore, TFC's assets include $2x (40% × $5x) of LTS1's cash received from LTS2.


(iv) *Example 4*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 80% of the value of LTS1 stock on each of the measuring dates, and thus is treated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section as owning 80% of LTS1's assets on each of the measuring dates. TFC also directly owns 50% of the value in FPS on each of the measuring dates. LTS1's assets include the remaining 50% of the value in FPS and a loan to FPS with a balance of $500x on each of the measuring dates. FPS's assets include a loan to TFC with a balance of $1000x on each of the measuring dates. During the first measuring period of the taxable year, FPS received $30x of interest from TFC, and LTS1 received $15x of interest from FPS, both of which were paid in cash. During the last measuring period of the taxable year, FPS received $80x of income from an unrelated person in cash and distributed $60x of such income in cash to TFC and LTS1 in proportion to their interests in FPS.


(B) *Results.* Under paragraph (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a), TFC's assets do not include the stock of LTS1, the interests in FPS owned by TFC directly and through LTS1, any of the loan by FPS to TFC, or any of the loan by LTS1 to FPS. Similarly, under paragraph (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, TFC's income does not include any of the $30x of interest received by FPS from TFC, any of the $15x of interest received by LTS1 from FPS, or any of the $60x of distributions received by TFC and LTS1 from FPS. However, on each of the measuring dates, TFC's assets include $27x ((50% × $30x) + (80% × 50% × $30x)) of the $30 of cash received by FPS from TFC and $12x (80% × $15x) of the $15x of cash received by LTS1 from FPS. Moreover, on the last measuring date of the taxable year, TFC's assets include $18x ((50% × $20x) + (80% × 50% × $20x)) of the $20x ($80x−$60x) of cash received by FPS from the unrelated person and retained by FPS and $54x ((50% × $60x) + (80% × 50% × $60x)) of the $60x cash received by FPS from the unrelated person and distributed. Furthermore, TFC's income includes $72x ((50% × $80x) + (80% × 50% × $80x)) of the $80x of income received by FPS from an unrelated person.


(v) *Example 5*—(A) *Facts.* TFC directly owns 80% of the value of the stock of LTS1 and 60% of the value of the stock of LTS2 on each of the measuring dates, and thus is treated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section as owning 80% of LTS1's assets and 60% of LTS2's assets on each of the measuring dates. TFC's assets include a license for the use of its intangible property by LTS1 with a value of $5,000x on each of the measuring dates, LTS1's assets include a sub-license of such license to LTS2 with a value of $2,000x on each of the measuring dates, and LTS2's assets include a lease of its building to LTS1 with a value of $4,000x on each of the measuring dates. LTS1 and LTS2 each use the intangible property that is the subject of the license and sub-license in its respective trade or business, and LTS1 uses the building in its trade or business. During the last quarter of the taxable year, TFC received a royalty of $500x from LTS1 with respect to the license, and LTS1 received a royalty of $200x from LTS2 with respect to the sub-license, both of which were paid in cash. LTS2 received $100x of rent paid in cash from LTS1 during each quarter of the taxable year with respect to the building lease.


(B) *Results*—(*1*) *Asset test.* Under paragraph (c) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(2) to TFC's final measuring period, the following analysis applies. TFC's assets do not include the stock of LTS1 and LTS2. Similarly, TFC's assets include only $1,000x ($5,000x license − (80% × $5,000x)) of the license to LTS1. However, TFC's assets include the entire $500x of cash it received from LTS1 as a result of the royalty. Moreover, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as owning $1,600x (80% × $2,000x) of the LTS1 sub-license to LTS2, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of an indirect LTS obligation, and accordingly TFC does not take into account $960x (60% × $1,600x) of LTS1's sub-license to LTS2. As a result, TFC's assets include $640x

($1,600x − $960x) of the sub-license. In addition, TFC's assets include $160x (80% × $200x) of LTS1's cash received from LTS2 as a result of the royalty to LTS1. Similarly, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as owning $2,400x (60% × $4,000x) of the LTS2 lease to LTS1, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account $1,920x (80% × $2,400x) of the LTS2 building lease, and accordingly, its assets include $480x ($2,400x − $1,920x) of the lease. TFC's assets also include $240x (60% × $100x × 4) of LTS2's cash received from LTS1 as a result of the rental payment to LTS2.


(*2*) *Income test.* Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, because TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of a direct LTS obligation, TFC's income includes only $100x ($500x royalty − (80% × $500x)) of the royalties from LTS1. Furthermore, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as receiving $160x (80% × $200x) of the royalty received by LTS1 from LTS2, under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of royalties derived with respect to an indirect LTS obligation, and accordingly TFC does not take into account $96x (60% × $160x) of the royalty received by LTS1. As a result, TFC's income includes only $64x ($160x − $96x) of the royalty from LTS2. Similarly, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as receiving $240x (60% × $100x × 4) of the rent received by LTS2 from LTS1, under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of rent derived with respect to an indirect LTS obligation, and accordingly TFC does not take into account $192x (80% × $240) of the rent received by LTS2. Therefore, TFC's income includes only $48 ($240x − $192x) of the rent received from LTS1.


(*3*) *Treatment of intangible and rental property.* For purposes of determining whether the intangible property that TFC owns and the building that TFC is treated as owning under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is held in the production of passive income, the activities performed by TFC and its qualified affiliates with respect to the property are taken into account under paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (e) of this section. Because TFC is the common parent of the affiliated group (as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) that includes LTS1 and LTS2, LTS1 and LTS2 are qualified affiliates of TFC and the activities of their officers and employees with respect to the intangible property and building are taken into account to determine whether the building and intangible property would be treated as passive assets.


(d) *Related person determination for purposes of section 1297(b)(2)(C)*—(1) *General rule.* For purposes of section 1297(b)(2)(C), interest, dividends, rents or royalties received or accrued by a look-through subsidiary (and treated as received directly by a tested foreign corporation pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section) are considered received or accrued from a related person only if the payor of the interest, dividend, rent or royalty is a related person (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) with respect to the look-through subsidiary, taking into account § 1.1297-1(c)(1)(i)(D). Similarly, for purposes of 1297(b)(2)(C), interest, dividends, rents or royalties received or accrued by a look-through partnership (and treated as received directly by a tested foreign corporation pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section) are considered received or accrued from a related person only if the payor of the interest, dividend, rent or royalty is a related person (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) with respect to the look-through partnership, taking into account § 1.1297-1(c)(1)(i)(D).


(2) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rule of this paragraph (d).


(i) *Facts.* USP is a domestic corporation that owns 30% of TFC. TFC directly owns 30% of the value of FS1 stock, and thus under paragraph (b) of this section is treated as owning 30% of FS1's assets and earning 30% of FS1's gross income. The remaining FS1 stock is owned by an unrelated foreign person. FS1 directly owns 60% of the vote of FS2 stock and 20% of the value of FS2 stock. The remaining vote and value of FS2 stock are owned by an unrelated foreign person. TFC, FS1, and FS2 are foreign corporations that are not controlled foreign corporations within the meaning of section 957(a). FS1 receives a $100x dividend from FS2.


(ii) *Results.* Pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, TFC is treated as receiving directly $30x of the dividend income received by FS1. FS2 is a related person (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) with respect to FS1 for purposes of section 1297(b)(2)(C) because FS1 owns more than 50% of the vote of FS2. FS2 is not a related person (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) with respect to TFC for purposes of section 1297(b)(2)(C) because TFC indirectly does not own more than 50% of the vote or value of the FS2 stock. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, for purposes of determining whether the dividend income received by FS1 is subject to the exception in section 1297(b)(2)(C) for purposes of testing the PFIC status of TFC, the dividend is treated as received from a related person because FS1 and FS2 are related persons within the meaning of section 1297(b)(2)(C). Therefore, to the extent the dividend income received by FS1 would be properly allocable to income of FS2 that is not passive income, the dividend income that TFC is treated as receiving under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is treated as non-passive income (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(4)).


(e) *Treatment of activities of certain look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships for purposes of certain exceptions*—(1) *General rule.* An item of income received by a tested foreign corporation (including an amount treated as received or accrued pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section) that would be passive income in the hands of the entity that actually received or accrued it is not passive if the item would be excluded from foreign personal holding company income under the following exceptions contained in section 954(c) that are based on whether the entity is engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business, determined by taking into account the activities performed by the officers and employees of the tested foreign corporation as well as activities performed by the officers and employees of any qualified affiliate of the tested foreign corporation—


(i) Section 954(c)(1)(B) and § 1.954-2(e)(1)(ii) and (3)(ii), (iii) and (iv);


(ii) Section 954(c)(1)(C) and § 1.954-2(f)(1)(ii) and (2)(iii)(D);


(iii) Section 954(c)(1)(D) and § 1.954-2(g)(2)(ii);


(iv) Section 954(c)(2)(A) and § 1.954-2(b)(6), (c), and (d);


(v) Section 954(c)(2)(B) and § 1.954-2(b)(2); and


(vi) Section 954(c)(2)(C) and § 1.954-2(h)(3)(ii).


(2) *Qualified affiliate.* The term *qualified affiliate* means a corporation or a partnership that is included in an affiliated group that includes the tested foreign corporation. For purposes of this paragraph (e), the term *affiliated group* has the meaning provided in section 1504(a), except that—


(i) The affiliated group is determined without regard to sections 1504(a)(2)(A), (b)(2) and (b)(3);


(ii) Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, a partnership is treated as an includible corporation;


(iii) The common parent of the affiliated group is not a domestic corporation or domestic partnership;


(iv) Section 1504(a)(2)(B) is applied by substituting “more than 50 percent” for “at least 80 percent”;


(v) A foreign corporation or foreign partnership must be the common parent of the affiliated group;


(vi) Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section, a partnership is included as a member of the affiliated group if more than 50 percent of the value of its capital interests or profits interests is owned by one or more corporations or partnerships that are included in the affiliated group; and


(vii) A corporation or a partnership that is not the common parent of an affiliated group is included in the affiliated group only if it would be a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership, as applicable, of the common parent if the common parent were a tested foreign corporation.


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rule of this paragraph (e).


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* USP is a domestic corporation that directly owns 20% of the outstanding stock of FS1. The remaining 80% of the outstanding stock of FS1 is directly owned by a foreign person that is not related to USP. FS1 directly owns 100% of the value of the outstanding stock of FS2 and directly owns 80% of the value of the outstanding stock of FS3. The remaining 20% of the value of the outstanding stock of FS3 is directly owned by a foreign person that is not related to USP. FS2 directly owns 80% of the value of the outstanding stock of FS4. The remaining 20% of the value of the outstanding stock of FS4 is directly owned by a foreign person that is not related to USP. FS1, FS2, FS3 and FS4 are all organized in Country A and are not controlled foreign corporations within the meaning of section 957(a). FS4 owns real property that is leased to a person that is not a related person, but does not perform any activities. FS1 and FS2 also do not perform any activities. Officers and employees of FS3 in Country A perform activities with respect to the real property of FS4 that, if performed by officers or employees of FS4, would allow the rental income in the hands of FS4 to qualify for the exception from foreign personal holding company income in section 954(c)(2)(A) and § 1.954-2(b)(6) and (c)(1)(ii).


(B) *Results*—(*1*) *Qualified affiliates.* FS1 is the common parent of the affiliated group (as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) that includes FS2, FS3, and FS4 because (i) FS1 owns more than 50% by value of FS2 and FS3, (ii) FS2 owns more than 50% by value of FS4, and (iii) FS2, FS3, and FS4 would be look-through subsidiaries with respect to FS1 if FS1 were the tested foreign corporation. Accordingly, each of FS1, FS2, FS3 and FS4 are qualified affiliates (as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) with respect to the other members of the group for purposes of determining whether FS1, FS2, FS3, or FS4 is a PFIC.


(*2*) *FS1 and FS2.* Under this paragraph (e), for purposes of determining whether the rental income actually received by FS4 with respect to the real property owned and rented by FS4 and treated under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section as received directly by FS1 or by FS2, respectively, is passive income for purposes of section 1297, the activities of FS3 are taken into account because FS3 is a qualified affiliate of FS1 and FS2, respectively. Thus, the exception in section 954(c)(2)(A) would apply, and the rental income treated as received by FS1 or by FS2, respectively, would be treated as non-passive income for purposes of determining whether FS1 or FS2 is a PFIC.


(*3*) *FS4.* Under this paragraph (e), for purposes of determining whether the rental income received by FS4 with respect to the real property owned and rented by FS4 is passive income for purposes of section 1297, the activities of FS3 are taken into account, because FS3 is a qualified affiliate of FS4. Thus, the exception in section 954(c)(2)(A) would apply, and the rental income received by FS4 would be treated as non-passive income for purposes of determining whether FS4 is a PFIC.


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that FS2 also owns real property that is leased to a person that is not a related person, and the officers and employees of FS2 in Country A engage in activities that would allow rental income received by FS2 with respect to its real property to qualify for the exception in section 954(c)(2)(A) and § 1.954-2(b)(6) and (c)(1)(iv), relying on the rule in § 1.954-2(c)(2)(ii) that provides that an organization is substantial in relation to rents if active leasing expenses equal or exceed 25% of adjusted leasing profit. However, the active leasing expenses of FS1 are less than 25% of its adjusted leasing profit, which includes the rental income of FS4 treated as received directly by FS1 as well as the rental income of FS2 treated as received directly by FS1.


(B) *Results.* Because FS2's rental income constitutes non-passive income as a result of the application of § 1.1297-1(c)(1)(i)(A) and section 954(c)(2)(A), it is treated as non-passive income that FS1 is treated as receiving directly under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section for purposes of determining whether FS1 is a PFIC, and accordingly, it is not necessary to rely on paragraph (e) of this section.


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that USP directly owns 60% of the outstanding stock of FS1.


(B) *Results.* Under paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, USP cannot be the common parent of an affiliated group for purposes of paragraph (e)(2) of this section because it is a domestic corporation. Because FS1 is a foreign corporation, FS1 may be the common parent of an affiliated group for purposes of paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The results therefore are the same as in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(B) of this section (the results in Example 1).


(f) *Gain on disposition of a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership*—(1) [Reserved].


(2) *Amount of gain taken into account from disposition of look-through subsidiary.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(1), section 1298(b)(3), and § 1.1298-2, the amount of gain that is taken into account by a tested foreign corporation from the tested foreign corporation's direct disposition of stock of a look-through subsidiary, or an indirect disposition resulting from the disposition of stock of a look-through subsidiary by other look-through subsidiaries or by look-through partnerships, is the residual gain. The residual gain equals the total gain recognized by the tested foreign corporation (including gain treated as recognized by the tested foreign corporation pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section) from the disposition of the stock of the look-through subsidiary reduced (but not below zero) by unremitted earnings. *Unremitted earnings* are the excess (if any) of the aggregate income (if any) taken into account by the tested foreign corporation pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section with respect to the stock of the disposed-of look-through subsidiary (including with respect to any other look-through subsidiary, to the extent it is owned by the tested foreign corporation indirectly through the disposed-of look-through subsidiary) over the aggregate dividends (if any) received by the tested foreign corporation from the disposed-of look-through subsidiary with respect to the stock, determined without regard to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2), the amount of gain derived from the disposition of stock of a look-through subsidiary and income of and dividends received from the look-through subsidiary is determined on a share-by-share basis under a reasonable method.


(3) *Characterization of residual gain as passive income.* For purposes of section 1297(a)(1), section 1298(b)(3), and § 1.1298-2, the residual gain from the direct or indirect disposition of stock of a look-through subsidiary is characterized as passive income or non-passive income based on the relative amounts of passive assets and non-passive assets (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(5) and (3), respectively) of the disposed-of look-through subsidiary (and any other look-through subsidiary to the extent owned indirectly through the look-through subsidiary) treated as held by the tested foreign corporation on the date of the disposition of the look-through subsidiary. For the purpose of this paragraph (f)(3), the relative amounts of passive assets and non-passive assets held by the look-through subsidiary are measured under the same method (value or adjusted bases) used to measure the assets of the tested foreign corporation for purposes of section 1297(a)(2).


(4) *Gain taken into account from disposition of 25%-owned partnerships and look-through partnerships*—(i) *Section 954(c)(4) partnerships.* The amount of gain derived from a tested foreign corporation's direct or indirect (through a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership) disposition of partnership interests in a partnership described in section 954(c)(4) (treating the tested foreign corporation as if it were a controlled foreign corporation) that is taken into account by the tested foreign corporation for purposes of section 1297(a)(1), section 1298(b)(3), and § 1.1298-2 is determined under section 954(c)(4).


(ii) *Look-through partnerships.* In the case of a look-through partnership that is not described in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, the principles of paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section apply to determine the amount and characterization of gain derived from a tested foreign corporation's direct or indirect (through a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership) disposition of partnership interests of the look-through partnership that is taken into account by the tested foreign corporation for purposes of section 1297(a)(1), section 1298(b)(3), and § 1.1298-2.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (f). For purposes of the examples in this paragraph (f)(5), USP is a domestic corporation, TFC and FS are foreign corporations that are not controlled foreign corporations within the meaning of section 957(a), and USP, TFC, and FS each has a single class of stock with 100 shares outstanding and a calendar taxable year.


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* USP owned 30% of the outstanding stock of TFC throughout Years 1, 2, 3, and 4. In Year 1, TFC purchased 5 shares of FS stock, representing 5% of the stock of FS, from an unrelated person. On the first day of Year 3, TFC purchased 20 shares of FS stock, representing 20% of the stock of FS, from an unrelated person. TFC owned 25% of the outstanding stock of FS throughout Years 3 and 4. Before Year 3, TFC did not include any amount in income with respect to FS under section 1297(c)(2). During Years 3 and 4, for purposes of section 1297(a)(1), TFC included in income, in the aggregate, $40x of income with respect to FS under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section. TFC did not receive dividends from FS during Year 1, 2, 3, or 4. For purposes of section 1297(a)(2), TFC measures its assets based on their fair market value as provided under section 1297(e). On the last day of Year 4, TFC recognizes a loss with respect to the sale of 5 shares of FS stock, and a $110x gain with respect to the sale of 20 shares of FS stock. On the date of the sale, FS owns non-passive assets with an aggregate fair market value of $150x, and passive assets with an aggregate fair market value of $50x.


(B) *Results.* For purposes of applying section 1297(a)(1) to TFC for Year 4, TFC must take into account $78x of residual gain, as provided by paragraph (f)(2) of this section, which equals the amount by which the $110x gain recognized on the sale of 20 shares in FS exceeds the aggregate pro rata share of $32x income ($40x × 20/25) taken into account by TFC with respect to the 20 shares in FS under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section during Years 3 and 4. There is zero residual gain on the sale of 5 shares of FS stock because they were sold at a loss. Under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, $58.50x of the residual gain is non-passive income ($78x × ($150x/$200x)) and $19.50x is passive income ($78x × ($50x/$200x)).


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(5)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that in Year 1, TFC purchased 15 shares of FS stock, representing 15% of the stock of FS, from an unrelated person, and on the first day of Year 3, TFC purchased an additional 15 shares of FS stock, representing 15% of the stock of FS, from an unrelated person, and on the last day of Year 4, TFC recognizes gain of $10x of the sale of 15 shares of FS stock purchased in Year 1, and gain of $60x on the sale of the other 15 shares of FS stock purchased in Year 3.


(B) *Results.* For purposes of applying section 1297(a)(1) to TFC for Year 4, TFC must take into account $40x of residual gain with respect to the 15 shares acquired in Year 3, as provided by paragraph (f)(2) of this section, which equals the amount by which the $60x gain recognized on the sale of those 15 shares exceeds the aggregate pro rata share of $20x income ($40x × 15/30) taken into account by TFC with respect to those 15 shares in FS under section 1297(c)(2) during Years 3 and 4. There is zero residual gain on the sale of the 15 shares of FS stock acquired in Year 1 because the $10x of gain does not exceed the aggregate pro rata share of $20x income taken into account by TFC with respect to those 15 shares of FS under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, $30x of the residual gain is non-passive income ($40x × ($150x/$200x)) and $10x is passive income ($40x × ($50x/$200x)).


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 2*), except that TFC received, in the aggregate, $20x of dividends from FS during Year 2.


(B) *Results.* The results are the same as in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(B) of this section (the results in *Example 2*) with respect to the 15 shares acquired in Year 3 ($40x of residual gain attributable to the 15 shares acquired in Year 3). For purposes of applying section 1297(a)(1) to TFC for Year 4, TFC must also take into account $10x of residual gain with respect to the 15 shares acquired in Year 1. As provided by paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the residual gain equals the amount by which the $10x gain recognized on the sale of those 15 shares exceeds the unremitted earnings with respect to those shares. The unremitted earnings with respect to the 15 shares acquired in Year 1 are $0x, the amount by which the pro rata share of aggregate income ($20x) taken into account by TFC with respect to those 15 shares of FS stock under section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section in Years 3 and 4 exceeds the aggregate pro rata amount of dividends with respect to those 15 shares of FS stock ($20x) received by TFC from FS in Year 2. Total residual gain therefore is $50x ($40x + $10x). Under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, $37.50x of the residual gain is non-passive income ($50x × ($150x/$200x)) and $12.50x is passive income ($50x × ($50x/$200x)).


(g) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of § 1.1297-1 and this section:


(1) *Direct LTS obligation.* The term *direct LTS obligation* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) *Indirect LTS obligation.* The term *indirect LTS obligation* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(3) *Look-through subsidiary.* The term *look-through subsidiary* means, with respect to a tested foreign corporation, a corporation as to which the asset test of paragraph (g)(3)(i) and the income test of paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section are satisfied on each measuring date during the taxable year of a tested foreign corporation. If a corporation satisfies both the asset test of paragraph (g)(3)(i) and the income test of paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) for some but not all measuring periods within the taxable year of a tested foreign corporation, the subsidiary is treated as a look-through subsidiary only for those measuring periods in which both tests are satisfied.


(i) For purposes of section 1297(a)(2) and paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, a corporation at least 25 percent of the value of the stock of which is owned (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) by the tested foreign corporation on the measuring date (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(1));


(ii) For purposes of section 1297(a)(1), either—


(A) For the taxable year, a corporation with respect to which the average percentage ownership (which is equal to the percentage ownership (by value) (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) on each measuring date during the taxable year, divided by the number of measuring dates in the year) by the tested foreign corporation during the tested foreign corporation's taxable year is at least 25 percent; or


(B) For a measuring period (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(2)), a corporation at least 25 percent of the value of the stock of which is owned (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) by the tested foreign corporation on the measuring date, provided all items of gross income of the corporation for each of the measuring periods in the taxable year for which the tested foreign corporation owns at least 25 percent of the value (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) on the relevant measuring dates can be established; and


(iii) For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section and § 1.1298-2, a corporation at least 25 percent of the value of the stock of which is owned (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) by the tested foreign corporation immediately before the disposition of stock of the corporation.


(4) *Look-through partnership*—(i) *In general.* The term *look-through partnership* means, with respect to a tested foreign corporation—


(A) A partnership that would be a look-through subsidiary (as defined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section) if such partnership were a corporation; or


(B) A partnership that is not described in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(A) of this section, if the tested foreign corporation satisfies both of the active partner tests set forth in paragraphs (g)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section on the measurement date or for the taxable year, as applicable, unless an election is made under paragraph (g)(4)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Active partner test*—(A) *Partnership interest under asset test.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, paragraph (g)(4)(i)(B) of this section applies for the measuring period only if the tested foreign corporation would not be a PFIC if section 1297(a)(1) and (2) and the regulations thereunder were applied to the tested foreign corporation without regard to any partnership interest owned by the tested foreign corporation that is not a partnership described in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(A) of this section. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the active partner test is applied on the measurement date (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(1)).


(B) *Partnership income under income test.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, paragraph (g)(4)(i)(B) of this section applies for the taxable year of the tested foreign corporation or for a measuring period (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(2)), as applicable, only if the tested foreign corporation would not be a PFIC if section 1297(a)(1) and (2) and the regulations thereunder were applied to the tested foreign corporation without regard to any partnership interest owned by the tested foreign corporation that is not a partnership described in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(A) of this section. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the active partner test is applied on the measuring date (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(1)) or for the taxable year, as applicable using the same period that was used under paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section.


(iii) *Election.* For any taxable year, an election may be made with respect to a partnership described in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(B) of this section to not apply the provisions of this paragraph (g)(4) to such partnership.


(iv) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (g)(4). For purposes of the examples in this paragraph (g)(4)(iv), TFC is a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation; FC1 and FC2 are foreign corporations that are not controlled foreign corporations; FPS is a foreign partnership; TFC owns 100% of the single class of stock of FC1 and FC2; FC2 owns 10% of the value of FPS, and the remaining 90% of FPS is owned by an unrelated foreign person; and TFC, FC1, FC2, and FPS are all calendar year taxpayers.


(A) *Example 1*—(*1*) *Facts.* During Year 1, FC1 generated $100x of non-passive income, FC2 generated $150x of non-passive income, and FPS generated $50x of income. On all of the measurement dates in Year 1, FC1 has assets with a value of $1000x that FC1 uses in its trade or business generating non-passive income, FC2 has assets with a value of $1500x that FC2 uses in its trade or business generating non-passive income, and FPS has assets with a value of $500x.


(*2*) *Results*—(*i*) *Active partner test with respect to partnership interest.* Pursuant to section 1297(c) and § 1.1297-2(b)(2), TFC is treated as holding directly the assets held by FC1 and FC2. For purposes of the active partner test under paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, TFC does not take into account its interest in FPS to determine whether it would be a PFIC. Because 100% ($2500x/$2500x) of the assets of FC1 and FC2 that TFC is treated as directly holding, without taking into account the interest in FPS, generates non-passive income, TFC satisfies the active partner test in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.


(*ii*) *Active partner test with respect to partnership income.* Pursuant to section 1297(c) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, TFC is treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of income of FC1 and FC2. For purposes of the active partner test under paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, TFC does not take into account its interest in FPS to determine whether it would be a PFIC. Because 100% ($250x/$250x) of the income of FC1 and FC2 that TFC is treated as directly receiving, without taking into account the interest in FPS, is non-passive income, TFC satisfies the active partner test in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A) of this section with respect to the income of FPS.


(*iii*) *Qualification of look-through partnership.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, FPS qualifies as a look-through partnership because TFC satisfies the active partner tests of both paragraphs (g)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

 Unless an election is made not to treat FPS as a look-through partnership under paragraph (g)(4)(iii) of this section, TFC is treated as receiving directly $5x of income (10% × $50x), TFC's pro rata share of the income of FPS, the character of which is determined at the level of FPS for purposes of section 1297. In addition, TFC is treated as holding directly $50x of FPS's assets (10% × $500x), TFC's proportionate share of the assets held by FPS. The character of those assets as passive or non-passive is determined in the hands of FPS for purposes of section 1297.


(B) *Example 2*—(*1*) *Facts.* During Year 1, FC1 generated $50x of passive income, FC2 earned $175x of non-passive income, and FPS generated $50x of income. On all of the measurement dates in Year 1, FC1 has assets with a value of $1100x that produce passive income, and FC2 has assets with a value of $900x that FC2 uses in its trade or business generating non-passive income. The value of FPS is $1000x taking into account its assets and liabilities.


(*2*) *Results*—(*i*) *Active partner test with respect to partnership interest.* Pursuant to section 1297(c) and § 1.1297-2(b)(2), TFC is treated as holding directly the assets held by FC1 and FC2. For purposes of the active partner test under paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, TFC does not take into account its interest in FPS to determine whether it would be a PFIC. Accordingly, 55% ($1100x/$2000x) of the assets that TFC is treated as directly holding, without taking into account the interest in FPS, generate passive income.


(*ii*) *Active partner test with respect to partnership income.* Pursuant to section 1297(c) and § 1.1297-2(b)(2), TFC is treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of income of FC1 and FC2. For purposes of the active partner test under paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, TFC does not take into account its interest in FPS to determine whether it would be a PFIC. Accordingly, 77.8% ($175x/$225x) of the income that TFC is treated as directly receiving, without taking into account the interest in FPS, is non-passive income.


(*iii*) *Failure to qualify as look-through partnership.* TFC satisfies the active partner test in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A) of this section but does not satisfy the active partner test in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) (B) of this section. Therefore, FPS does not qualify as a look-though partnership. Under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, TFC's share of income with respect to FPS is treated as passive income for purposes of section 1297 and TFC's $100x interest (10% × $1000x) in FPS is treated as a passive asset for purposes of section 1297.


(5) *LTS debt.* The term *LTS debt* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(6) *LTS lease.* The term *LTS lease* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(7) *LTS license.* The term *LTS license* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(8) *LTS obligation.* The term *LTS obligation* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(9) *LTS stock.* The term *LTS stock* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(10) *Qualified affiliate.* The term *qualified affiliate* has the meaning provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(11) *Residual gain.* The term *residual gain* has the meaning provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(12) *TFC obligation.* The term *TFC obligation* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(13) *Unremitted earnings.* The term *unremitted earnings* has the meaning provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(h) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to taxable years of shareholders beginning on or after January 14, 2021. A shareholder may choose to apply such rules for any open taxable year beginning before January 14, 2021, provided that, with respect to a tested foreign corporation, the shareholder consistently applies the provisions of § 1.1291-1(b)(8)(iv) and (b)(8)(v)(A), (B), (C), and (D) and §§ 1.1297-1 (except that consistent treatment is not required with respect to § 1.1297-1(c)(1)(i)(A)), 1.1298-2, and 1.1298-4 for such year and all subsequent years.



---

[N] [T.D. 9936, 86 FR 4557, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 13648, Mar. 10, 2021]




