# ยง 184.1375   Iron, elemental.

(a) Iron, elemental (CAS Reg. No. 7439-89-6) is metallic iron obtained by any of the following processes: reduced iron, electrolytic iron, and carbonyl iron.


(1) Reduced iron is prepared by reacting ground ferric oxide with hydrogen or carbon monoxide at an elevated temperature. The process results in a grayish-black powder, all of which should pass through a 100-mesh sieve. It is lusterless or has not more than a slight luster. When viewed under a microscope, it appears as an amorphous powder free from particles having a crystalline structure. It is stable in dry air.


(2) Electrolytic iron is prepared by electrodeposition. It is an amorphous, lusterless, grayish-black powder. It is stable in dry air.


(3) Carbonyl iron is prepared by the decomposition of iron pentacarbonyl. It occurs as a dark gray powder. When viewed under a microscope, it appears as spheres built up with concentric shells. It is stable in dry air.


(b) Iron, elemental (carbonyl, electrolytic, or reduced) meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981) (iron, carbonyl, p. 151; iron, electrolytic, pp. 151-152; iron, reduced; pp. 152-153), which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food as a nutrient supplement as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter, with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The ingredient may also be used in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 350a(g)) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act (21 U.S.C. 350a(2)).


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [53 FR 16867, May 12, 1988]




