# § 2.815   External radio frequency power amplifiers.

(a) As used in this part, an external radio frequency power amplifier is any device which, (1) when used in conjunction with a radio transmitter as a signal source is capable of amplification of that signal, and (2) is not an integral part of a radio transmitter as manufactured.


(b) No person shall manufacture, sell or lease, offer for sale or lease (including advertising for sale or lease) or import, ship or distribute for the purpose of selling or leasing or offering for sale or lease, any external radio frequency power amplifier capable of operation on any frequency or frequencies below 144 MHz unless the amplifier has received a grant of certification in accordance with subpart J of this part and other relevant parts of this chapter. These amplifiers shall comply with the following:


(1) The external radio frequency power amplifier shall not be capable of amplification in the frequency band 26-28 MHz.


(2) The amplifier shall not be capable of easy modification to permit its use as an amplifier in the frequency band 26-28 MHz.


(3) No more than 10 external radio frequency power amplifiers may be constructed for evaluation purposes in preparation for the submission of an application for a grant of certification.


(4) If the external radio frequency power amplifier is intended for operation in the Amateur Radio Service under part 97 of this chapter, the requirements of §§ 97.315 and 97.317 of this chapter shall be met.



---

[N] [40 FR 1246, Jan. 7, 1975; 40 FR 6474, Feb. 12, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 12687, Mar. 27, 1978; 43 FR 33725, Aug. 1, 1978; 46 FR 18981, Mar. 27, 1981; 62 FR 10470, Mar. 7, 1997; 71 FR 66461, Nov. 15, 2006]




