# § 41.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, the following terms shall have the meanings given in this section, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words indicating the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not listed which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.41, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 41, Importation of Tobacco Products and Cigarette Papers and Tubes. 


*Bank.* Any commercial bank.


*Banking day.* Any day during which a bank is open to the public for carrying on substantially all its banking functions.


*Business day.* Any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. (The term legal holiday includes all holidays in the District of Columbia and, in the case of bonded manufacturers in Puerto Rico, all legal holidays in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.)


*Bonded manufacturer.* A manufacturer of tobacco products in Puerto Rico who has an approved bond, in accordance with the provisions of this part, authorizing him to defer the payment in Puerto Rico on the internal revenue tax imposed on such products by 26 U.S.C. 7652(a) as provided in this part.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*Chewing Tobacco.* Any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.


*Cigar.* Any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco (other than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette within the meaning of paragraph (2) of the definition for cigarette).


*Cigarette.* (1) Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing tobacco, and


(2) Any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette described in paragraph (1) of this definition.


*Cigarette paper.* Paper, or any other material except tobacco, prepared for use as a cigarette wrapper.


*Cigarette tube.* Cigarette paper made into a hollow cylinder for use in making cigarettes.


*Commercial bank.* A bank, whether or not a member of the Federal Reserve System, which has access to the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire. The “FRCS” or “Fedwire” is a communications network that allows Federal Reserve System member banks to effect a transfer of funds for their customers (or other commercial banks) to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York.


*Computation or computed.* When used with respect to the tax on tobacco products of Puerto Rican manufacture, computation or computed shall mean that the bonded manufacturer has ascertained the quantity and kind (small cigars, large cigars, small cigarettes, large cigarettes, chewing tobacco, snuff, pipe tobacco, or roll-your-own tobacco) of tobacco products and the sale price of large cigars being shipped to the United States; that adequate bond has been posted to cover the payment, in Puerto Rico, of the tax on such products to be deferred under subpart G of this part; that the tax imposed on such products by 26 U.S.C. 7652(a) has been calculated; that the bonded manufacturer has executed an agreement to pay the internal revenue tax which will become due with respect to such products, as provided in this part; and that a TTB officer has verified and executed a certification of such calculation.


*Customs officer.* An officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of such an officer.


*Determine.* To establish enough information about taxable products at the time of removal to calculate the tax, specifically the quantity (pounds or number) and kind (for example, cigarettes, snuff, paper tubes). Where the tax rate depends on additional information (such as number of cigarette papers to a set before 1/1/2000 or sale price of large cigars), that information must also be established as part of tax determination.


*Electronic fund transfer or EFT.* Any transfer of funds effected by a bonded manufacturer's commercial bank, either directly or through a correspondent banking relationship, via the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*Export warehouse.* A bonded internal revenue warehouse for the storage of tobacco products and cigarette papers and tubes, upon which the internal revenue tax has not been paid or for the storage of processed tobacco, for subsequent shipment to a foreign country, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or a possession of the United States, or for consumption beyond the jurisdiction of the internal revenue laws of the United States.


*Export warehouse proprietor.* Any person who operates an export warehouse.


*Factory.* The premises of a manufacturer of tobacco products, cigarette papers or tubes, or processed tobacco in which he carries on such business.


*Fiscal year.* The period which begins October 1 and ends on the following September 30.


*HTS.* The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, as published by the United States International Trade Commission.


*Importer.* Any person in the United States to whom non-taxpaid tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes, or any processed tobacco manufactured in a foreign country, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or a possession of the United States are shipped or consigned; any person who removes cigars for sale or consumption in the United States from a customs bonded manufacturing warehouse; and any person who smuggles or otherwise unlawfully brings tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes, or any processed tobacco into the United States.


*Large cigarettes.* Cigarettes weighing more than three pounds per thousand.


*Large cigars.* Cigars weighing more than three pounds per thousand.


*Manufacturer of cigarette papers and tubes.* Any person who manufactures cigarette paper, or makes up cigarette paper into tubes, except for his own personal use or consumption.


*Manufacturer of processed tobacco.* Any person who processes any tobacco other than tobacco products.


*Manufacturer of tobacco products.* (1) Any person who manufactures cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, or roll-your-own tobacco, other than:


(i) A person who produces tobacco products solely for that person's own consumption or use; or


(ii) A proprietor of a customs bonded manufacturing warehouse with respect to the operation of such warehouse.


(2) The term “Manufacturer of tobacco products” includes any person who for commercial purposes makes available for consumer use (including such consumer's personal consumption or use under paragraph (1)(i) of this definition) a machine capable of making cigarettes, cigars, or other tobacco products. A person making such a machine available for consumer use shall be deemed the person making the removal with respect to any tobacco products manufactured by such machine. A person who sells a machine directly to a consumer at retail for a consumer's personal home use is not making a machine available for commercial purposes if such machine is not used at a retail premises and is designed to produce tobacco products only in personal use quantities.


*Package.* The immediate container in which tobacco products, processed tobacco, or cigarette papers or tubes are put up by the manufacturer or the importer (prior to release from customs custody) and offered for sale or delivery to the ultimate consumer. For purposes of this definition, a container of processed tobacco, the contents of which weigh 10 pounds or less (including any added non-tobacco ingredients or constituents), that is removed within the meaning of this part for any purpose other than destruction, export, delivery as a sample to a manufacturer of processed tobacco or tobacco products for the purpose of soliciting orders of processed tobacco, or for scientific testing or testing of equipment that results in the destruction of the processed tobacco or the return of the processed tobacco, is deemed to be a package offered for sale or delivery to the ultimate consumer. For appropriate tax rate, see § 41.30.


*Packaging.* When used in the context of an action, the act of placing processed tobacco or a tobacco product in a package.


*Person.* An individual, partnership, association, company, corporation, estate, or trust.


*Pipe tobacco.* Any tobacco which because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.


*Port Director of Customs.* The director of any port or port of entry as defined in 19 CFR 101.1. A list of customs service ports and ports of entry is set forth in 19 CFR 101.3.


*Processed tobacco.* Processed tobacco is any tobacco that has undergone processing, but does not include tobacco products. For purposes of this definition, the processing of tobacco does not include the farming or growing of tobacco or the handling of tobacco solely for sale, shipment, or delivery to a manufacturer of tobacco products or processed tobacco, nor does the processing of tobacco include curing, baling, or packaging activities. For purposes of this definition, the processing of tobacco includes, but is not limited to, stemming (that is, removing the stem from the tobacco leaf), fermenting, threshing, cutting, or flavoring the tobacco, or otherwise combining the tobacco with non-tobacco ingredients.


*Records.* The accounts, books, correspondence, declarations, papers, statements, technical data, electronic media and the computer programs necessary to retrieve the stored information in a usable form, and other documents that:


(1) Pertain to any importation of tobacco products, cigarette papers or tubes, or processed tobacco, to the information contained in the documents required by law or regulation under the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, in connection with the importation or shipment of merchandise into the United States from Puerto Rico; and


(2) Are of the type normally kept in the ordinary course of business; and


(3) Are sufficiently detailed to:


(i) Establish the right to make the importation or shipment into the United States from Puerto Rico;


(ii) Establish the correctness of any importation or shipment into the United States from Puerto Rico;


(iii) Determine the liability of any person for duties and taxes due, or which may be due, to the United States;


(iv) Determine the liability of any person for fines, penalties, and forfeitures; and


(v) Determine whether the person has complied with the laws and regulations administered by TTB and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and with any other documents required under laws or regulations administered by TTB and CBP.


*Relanding.* When used with reference to tobacco products and cigarette papers and tubes, the term “relanding” means importing, bringing, or returning into the jurisdiction of the United States any tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes that were manufactured in the United States, labeled or shipped for export (including to Puerto Rico) as prescribed in this chapter, and previously exported from the United States.


*Removal or remove.* When used with reference to tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes or any processed tobacco, the term “removal” or “removed” means removal from the factory, release from internal revenue bond under 26 U.S.C. 5704, release from customs custody (including conditional release as defined in 19 CFR 141.0a(i)), and also includes the smuggling or other unlawful importation of such articles into the United States.


*Roll-your-own tobacco.* Any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes or cigars, or for use as wrappers thereof.


*Sale price.* The price for which large cigars are sold by the importer or United States manufacturer, determined in accordance with § 41.39 and used for computation of the excise tax.


*Small cigarettes.* Cigarettes weighing not more than three pounds per thousand.


*Small cigars.* Cigars weighing not more than three pounds per thousand.


*Smokeless tobacco.* Any chewing tobacco or snuff.


*Snuff.* Any finely cut, ground, or powdered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.


*This chapter.* Chapter I, title 27, Code of Federal Regulations.


*Tobacco products.* Cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, and roll-your-own tobacco.


*Treasury Account.* The Department of the Treasury's General Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*United States.* When used in a geographical sense shall include only the States and the District of Columbia.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13554, Mar. 31, 1978] 


