# ยง 42.12   Rules of chargeability.

(a) *Applicability.* An immigrant shall be charged to the numerical limitation for the foreign state or dependent area of birth, unless the case falls within one of the exceptions to the general rule of chargeability provided by INA 202(b) and paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section to prevent the separation of families or the alien is classifiable under:


(1) INA 201(b);


(2) INA 101(a)(27) (A) or (B);


(3) Section 112 of Public Law 101-649;


(4) Section 124 of Public Law 101-649;


(5) Section 132 of Public Law 101-649;


(6) Section 134 of Public Law 101-649; or


(7) Section 584(b)(1) as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202.


(b) *Exception for child.* If necessary to prevent the separation of a child from the alien parent or parents, an immigrant child, including a child born in a dependent area, may be charged to the same foreign state to which a parent is chargeable if the child is accompanying or following to join the parent, in accordance with INA 202(b)(1).


(c) *Exception for spouse.* If necessary to prevent the separation of husband and wife, an immigrant spouse, including a spouse born in a dependent area, may be charged to a foreign state to which a spouse is chargeable if accompanying or following to join the spouse, in accordance with INA 202(b)(2).


(d) *Exception for alien born in the United States.* An immigrant who was born in the United States shall be charged to the foreign state of which the immigrant is a citizen or subject. If not a citizen or subject of any country, the alien shall be charged to the foreign state of last residence as determined by the consular officer, in accordance with INA 202(b)(3).


(e) *Exception for alien born in foreign state in which neither parent was born or had residence at time of alien's birth.* An alien who was born in a foreign state, as defined in ยง 40.1, in which neither parent was born, and in which neither parent had a residence at the time of the applicant's birth, may be charged to the foreign state of either parent as provided in INA 202(b)(4). The parents of such an alien are not considered as having acquired a residence within the meaning of INA 202(b)(4), if, at the time of the alien's birth within the foreign state, the parents were visiting temporarily or were stationed there in connection with the business or profession and under orders or instructions of an employer, principal, or superior authority foreign to such foreign state. 



---

[N] [52 FR 42613, Nov. 5, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 49681, Oct. 1, 1991] 




