# § 15.255   Operation within the band 57-71 GHz.

(a) *General.* Operation under the provisions of this section is not permitted for equipment used on satellites.


(b) *Operation on aircraft.* Operation on aircraft is permitted under the following conditions:


(1) When the aircraft is on the ground.


(2) While airborne, only in closed exclusive on-board communication networks within the aircraft, with the following exceptions:


(i) Equipment shall not be used in wireless avionics intra-communication (WAIC) applications where external structural sensors or external cameras are mounted on the outside of the aircraft structure.


(ii) Except as permitted in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, equipment shall not be used on aircraft where there is little attenuation of RF signals by the body/fuselage of the aircraft.


(iii) Field disturbance sensor/radar devices may only operate in the frequency band 59.3-71.0 GHz while installed in passengers' personal portable electronic equipment (*e.g.,* smartphones, tablets) and shall comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and relevant requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section.


(3) Field disturbance sensors/radar devices deployed on unmanned aircraft may operate within the frequency band 60-64 GHz, provided that the transmitter not exceed 20 dBm peak EIRP. The sum of continuous transmitter off-times of at least two milliseconds shall equal at least 16.5 milliseconds within any contiguous interval of 33 milliseconds. Operation shall be limited to a maximum of 121.92 meters (400 feet) above ground level.


(c) *Radiated power limits.* Within the 57-71 GHz band, emission levels shall not exceed the following equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP):


(1) Devices other than field disturbance sensors shall comply with one of the following power limits, as measured during the transmit interval:


(i) The average power of any emission shall not exceed 40 dBm and the peak power of any emission shall not exceed 43 dBm; or


(ii) For fixed point-to-point transmitters located outdoors, the average power of any emission shall not exceed 82 dBm, and shall be reduced by 2 dB for every dB that the antenna gain is less than 51 dBi. The peak power of any emission shall not exceed 85 dBm, and shall be reduced by 2 dB for every dB that the antenna gain is less than 51 dBi.


(A) The provisions in this paragraph (c) for reducing transmit power based on antenna gain shall not require that the power levels be reduced below the limits specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(B) The provisions of § 15.204(c)(2) and (4) that permit the use of different antennas of the same type and of equal or less directional gain do not apply to intentional radiator systems operating under this provision. In lieu thereof, intentional radiator systems shall be certified using the specific antenna(s) with which the system will be marketed and operated. Compliance testing shall be performed using the highest gain and the lowest gain antennas for which certification is sought and with the intentional radiator operated at its maximum available output power level. The responsible party, as defined in § 2.909 of this chapter, shall supply a list of acceptable antennas with the application for certification.


(2) Field disturbance sensors/radars shall not exceed −10 dBm peak conducted output power and 10 dBm peak EIRP except that field disturbance sensors/radars that limit their operation to all or part of the specified frequency band may operate without being subject to a transmitter conducted output power limit if they operate in compliance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section or with one or more of the provisions below:


(i) *57.0-59.4 GHz:* the peak EIRP level shall not exceed 20 dBm for indoor operation or 30 dBm for outdoor operation;


(ii) *57.0-61.56 GHz:* the peak EIRP shall not exceed 3 dBm except that the peak EIRP shall not exceed 20 dBm if the sum of continuous transmitter off-times of at least two milliseconds equals at least 16.5 milliseconds within any contiguous interval of 33 milliseconds;


(iii) *57.0-64.0 GHz:*

(A) The peak EIRP shall not exceed 14 dBm, and the sum of continuous transmitter off-times of at least two milliseconds shall equal at least 25.5 milliseconds within any contiguous interval of 33 milliseconds, except as specific in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section;


(B) The peak EIRP shall not exceed 20 dBm, and the sum of continuous transmitter off-times of at least two milliseconds shall equal at least 16.5 milliseconds within any contiguous interval of 33 milliseconds when operated outdoors:


*(1)* As part of a temporary or permanently fixed application; or


*(2)* When being used in vehicular applications to perform specific tasks of moving something or someone, except for in-cabin applications;


(iv) A field disturbance sensor may operate in any of the modes in the above sub-sections so long as the device operates in only one mode at any time and does so for at least 33 milliseconds before switching to another mode.


(v) *61.0-61.5 GHz:* For field disturbance sensors/radars that occupy 500 MHz bandwidth or less that are contained wholly within the frequency band 61.0-61.5 GHz, the average power of any emission, measured during the transmit interval, shall not exceed 40 dBm, and the peak power of any emission shall not exceed 43 dBm. In addition, the average power of any emission outside of the 61.0-61.5 GHz band, measured during the transmit interval, but still within the 57-71 GHz band, shall not exceed 10 dBm, and the peak power of any emission shall not exceed 13 dBm.


(3) For pulsed field disturbance sensors/radars operating in the 57-64 GHz band that have a maximum pulse duration of 6 ns, the average EIRP shall not exceed 13 dBm and the transmit duty cycle shall not exceed 10% during any 0.3 µs time window. In addition, the average integrated EIRP within the frequency band 61.5-64.0 GHz shall not exceed 5 dBm in any 0.3 µs time window. Peak emissions shall not exceed 20 dB above the maximum permitted average emission limit applicable to the equipment under test. The radar bandwidth is the frequency band bounded by the points that are 10 dB below the highest radiated emission, as based on the complete transmission system including the antenna.


(4) The provisions in § 15.35(b) and (c) that require emissions to be averaged over a 100 millisecond period and that limits the peak power to 20 dB above the average limit do not apply to devices operating under paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.


(d) *Limits on spurious emissions.* (1) The power density of any emissions outside the 57-71 GHz band shall consist solely of spurious emissions.


(2) Radiated emissions below 40 GHz shall not exceed the general limits in § 15.209.


(3) Between 40 GHz and 200 GHz, the level of these emissions shall not exceed 90 pW/cm
2 at a distance of 3 meters.


(4) The levels of the spurious emissions shall not exceed the level of the fundamental emission.


(e) *Limits on transmitter conducted output power.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the peak transmitter conducted output power of devices other than field disturbance sensors/radars shall not exceed 500 mW. Depending on the gain of the antenna, it may be necessary to operate the intentional radiator using a lower peak transmitter output power in order to comply with the EIRP limits specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Devices other than field disturbance sensors/radars with an emission bandwidth of less than 100 megahertz must limit their peak transmitter conducted output power to the product of 500 mW times their emission bandwidth divided by 100 megahertz. For the purposes of this paragraph, emission bandwidth is defined as the instantaneous frequency range occupied by a steady state radiated signal with modulation, outside which the radiated power spectral density never exceeds 6 dB below the maximum radiated power spectral density in the band, as measured with a 100 kilohertz resolution bandwidth spectrum analyzer. The center frequency must be stationary during the measurement interval, even if not stationary during normal operation (*e.g.,* for frequency hopping devices).


(f) *Frequency stability.* Fundamental emissions must be contained within the frequency bands specified in this section during all conditions of operation. Equipment is presumed to operate over the temperature range −20 to + 50 degrees Celsius with an input voltage variation of 85% to 115% of rated input voltage, unless justification is presented to demonstrate otherwise.


(g) *Radio frequency radiation exposure.* Radio frequency devices operating under the provisions of this part are subject to the radio frequency radiation exposure requirements specified in §§ 1.1307(b), 1.1310, 2.1091, and 2.1093 of this chapter, as appropriate. Applications for equipment authorization of mobile or portable devices operating under this section must contain a statement confirming compliance with these requirements. Technical information showing the basis for this statement must be submitted to the Commission upon request.


(h) *Group installation.* Any transmitter that has received the necessary FCC equipment authorization under the rules of this chapter may be mounted in a group installation for simultaneous operation with one or more other transmitter(s) that have received the necessary FCC equipment authorization, without any additional equipment authorization. However, no transmitter operating under the provisions of this section may be equipped with external phase-locking inputs that permit beam-forming arrays to be realized.


(i) *Compliance measurement.* Measurement procedures that have been found to be acceptable to the Commission in accordance with § 2.947 of this chapter may be used to demonstrate compliance.


(1) For purposes of demonstrating compliance with this section, corrections to the transmitter conducted output power may be made due to the antenna and circuit loss.


(2) Compliance measurements of frequency-agile field disturbance sensors/radars shall be performed with any related frequency sweep, step, or hop function activated.



---

[N] [63 FR 42279, Aug. 7, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 7409, Jan. 23, 2001; 68 FR 68547, Dec. 9, 2003; 78 FR 59850, Sept. 30, 2013; 81 FR 79936, Nov. 14, 2016; 83 FR 63, Jan. 2, 2018; 85 FR 18149, Apr. 1, 2020; 88 FR 47394, July 24, 2023]




