# ยง 9901.5   Response to requests.

(a) *Authority to grant or deny requests.* The MCRMC FOIA Officer is authorized to grant or deny any request for MCRMC records.


(b) *Grant of request.* If the MCRMC FOIA Officer grants a request, in full or in part, the FOIA Officer shall promptly provide the requester written notice of the decision. The requester will be notified whether the request has been assigned to the Standard or Complex track, pursuant to paragraph (d) of subpart 9901.6.


(c) *Request denial.* If the FOIA Officer denies a fee waiver request or finds there are no responsive records subject to FOIA, the FOIA Officer will notify the requester of that fact. If the FOIA Officer denies the request, in full or part, the FOIA Officer will provide the requester written notice of the denial, which will include a description of the material withheld, the FOIA exemption under which the information was withheld, and the approximate number of pages of information withheld. When a portion of a record is withheld, the amount of information redacted and the claimed exemption will be noted at the place in the record where the redaction was made. The notice will also describe the procedure for filing an appeal.


(d) *Referral of records.* When a responsive record that originated in another agency is located, the responsive record will be referred to its originating agency for response.


(e) *Referral of request.* The requester will be notified when all or part of a request is referred to another agency and will be given contact information for the FOIA office of the agency to which the request and responsive record were referred.




