# § 301.7701(i)-3   Effective dates and duration of taxable mortgage pool classification.

(a) *Effective dates.* Except as otherwise provided, the regulations under section 7701(i) are effective and applicable September 6, 1995.


(b) *Entities in existence on December 31, 1991*—(1) *In general.* For transitional rules concerning the application of section 7701(i) to entities in existence on December 31, 1991, see section 675(c) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.


(2) *Special rule for certain transfers.* A transfer made to an entity on or after September 6, 1995, is a substantial transfer for purposes of section 675(c)(2) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 only if—


(i) The transfer is significant in amount; and


(ii) The transfer is connected to the entity's issuance of related debt obligations (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) that have different maturities (within the meaning of § 301.7701-1(e)).


(3) *Related debt obligation.* A related debt obligation is a debt obligation whose payments bear a relationship (within the meaning of § 301.7701-1(f)) to payments on debt obligations that the entity holds as assets.


(4) *Example.* The following example illustrates the principles of this paragraph (b):


(c) *Duration of taxable mortgage pool classification*—(1) *Commencement and duration.* An entity is classified as a taxable mortgage pool on the first testing day that it meets the definition of a taxable mortgage pool. Once an entity is classified as a taxable mortgage pool, that classification continues through the day the entity retires its last related debt obligation.


(2) *Testing day defined.* A testing day is any day on or after September 6, 1995, on which an entity issues a related debt obligation (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) that is significant in amount.



---

[N] [T.D. 8610, 60 FR 40092, Aug. 7, 1995]




