# § 1316.02   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings specified: 


(a) The term *Act* means the Controlled Substances Act (84 Stat. 1242; 21 U.S.C. 801) and/or the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (84 Stat. 1285; 21 U.S.C. 951). 


(b) The term *Administration* means the Drug Enforcement Administration. 


(c) The term *controlled premises* means—


(1) Places where original or other records or documents required under the Act are kept or required to be kept, and 


(2) Places, including factories, warehouses, or other establishments and conveyances, where persons registered under the Act or exempted from registration under the Act, or regulated persons may lawfully hold, manufacture, or distribute, dispense, administer, or otherwise dispose of controlled substances or listed chemicals or where records relating to those activities are maintained.


(d) The term *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Administration. The Administrator has been delegated authority under the Act by the Attorney General (28 CFR 0.100). 


(e) The term *inspector* means an officer or employee of the Administration authorized by the Administrator to make inspections under the Act. 


(f) The term *register* and *registration* refer to registration required and permitted by sections 303 and 1008 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823 and 958). 


(g) Any term not defined in this part shall have the definition set forth in section 102 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 802) or part 1300 of this chapter.



---

[N] [36 FR 7820, Apr. 24, 1971. Redesignated at 38 FR 26609, Sept. 24, 1973, as amended at 60 FR 32465, June 22, 1995; 60 FR 36334, July 14, 1995; 62 FR 13969, Mar. 24, 1997] 




