# § 231.11   Caboose cars without platforms.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion.


(ii) The brake shaft on caboose cars without platforms shall be located on end of car to the left of center.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the brakes from right to left side on steel or steel-underframe cars with platform end sills, in service July 1, 1911, except when such appliances are renewed, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(4)).


(b) *Brake step.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(b)).


(c) *Running boards*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(c)(1)).


(2) *Dimension.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(c)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Full length of car, center of roof. (On caboose cars with cupolas, longitudinal running boards shall extend from cupola to ends of roof.)


(ii) Outside-metal-roof cars shall have latitudinal extensions leading to ladder locations.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(c)(4)).


(d) *Sill steps.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(d)).


(e) *Side-door steps*—(1) *Number.* Two. (If caboose has side doors.)


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum length, 5 feet. Minimum width, 6 inches. Minimum thickness of tread, 1
1/2 inches. Minimum height of back stop, 3 inches. Maximum height from top of rail to top of tread, 24 inches.


(3) *Location.* One under each side door.


(4) *Manner of application.* Side-door steps shall be supported by 2 iron brackets having a minimum cross-sectional area 
7/8 by 3 inches or equivalent, each of which shall be securely fastened to car by not less than two 
3/4-inch bolts.


(f) *Ladders*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(e)(2)).


(3) *Location.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(e)(3), except when caboose has side doors, then side ladders shall be located not more than 8 inches from doors.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(e)(4)).


(g) *End-ladder clearance.* (1) No part of car above end sills within 30 inches from side of car, except buffer block, brake shaft, brake wheel, brake step, running board, or uncoupling lever shall extend to within 12 inches of a vertical plane, parallel with end of car and passing through the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against the buffer block or end sill, and no other part of end of car or fixtures on same above end sills, other than exceptions noted in this subparagraph, shall extend beyond the outer face of buffer block.


(2) Carriers are not required to make changes to secure additional end-ladder clearance on cars in service July 1, 1911, that have 10 or more inches end-ladder clearance, within 30 inches of side of car, until car is shopped for work amounting to practically rebuilding body of car, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(h) *Roof handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(g)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) One over each ladder, on roof in line with and running parallel to treads of ladder, not less than 8 nor more than 15 inches from edge of roof.


(ii) Where stiles of ladders extend 12 inches or more above roof, no other roof handholds are required.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Roof handholds shall be securely fastened with not less than 
1/2-inch bolts with nuts outside (when possible) and riveted over, or with not less than 
1/2-inch rivets.


(i) *Cupola handholds*—(1) *Number.* One or more.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eights of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches.


(3) *Location.* (i) One continuous cupola handhold extending around top of cupola, not more than 3 inches from edge of cupola roof.


(ii) Four right-angle handholds, one at each corner, not less than 16 inches in clear length from point of angle, may take the place of the one continuous handhold specified, if locations coincide.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Cupola handholds shall be securely fastened with not less than 
1/2-inch bolts with nuts outside and riveted over or with not less than 
1/2-inch rivets.


(j) *Side handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one near each end on each side of car, not less than 24 nor more than 30 inches above center line of coupler. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 8 inches from end of car.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.(h)(4)).


(k) *Side-door handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four: Two curved, two straight.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches.


(3) *Location.* (i) One curved handhold, from a point at side of each door opposite ladder, not less than 36 inches above bottom of car, curving away from door downward to a point not more than 6 inches above bottom of car.


(ii) One vertical handhold at ladder side of each door from a point not less than 36 inches above bottom of car to a point not more than 6 inches above level of bottom of door.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Side-door handholds shall be securely fastened with not less than 
1/2-inch bolts with nuts outside (when possible) and riveted over or with not less than 
1/2-inch rivets.


(l) *Horizontal end handholds*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars.” (See § 231.1(i)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars.” (see § 231.1(i)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(3)), except that one additional end handhold shall be on each end of cars with platform end sills as heretofore described, unless car has door in center of end. Said handhold shall be not less than 24 inches in length, located near center of car, not less than 30 nor more than 60 inches above platform end sill.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed in said order.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(4)).


(m) *Vertical end handholds.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(j)).


(n) *Uncoupling levers.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)).




