# § 1944.661   Individual homeowners—eligibility for HPG assistance.

The individual homeowners assisted must have income that meets the very low- or low-income definitions, be the owner of an individual dwelling at least 1 year prior to the time of assistance, and be the intended occupant of the dwelling subsequent to the time of assistance. The dwelling must be located in a rural area and be in need of housing preservation assistance. Each homeowner is required to submit evidence of income and ownership for retention in the grantee's files.


(a) *Income.* Determination of income will be made in accordance with 7 CFR 3550.54(c). All members of the household, as defined in § 1944.656 of this subpart, must be included when determining income. Grantees must use certifications, may require additional information from the homeowner, and should seek advice from their attorney.


(b) *Ownership.* Evidence of ownership may be a photostatic copy of the instrument evidencing ownership. Methods for assuring the intention of the homeowner to continue to occupy the unit after assistance will be established by the grantee. Any of the following will satisfy or fulfill this requirement of ownership:


(1) Full marketable title.


(2) An undivided or divided interest in the property to be repaired, rehabilitated, or replaced when not all of the owners are occupying the property. HPG assistance may be made in such cases when:


(i) The occupant has been living in the house for at least 1 year prior to the date of requesting assistance;


(ii) The grantee has no reason to believe the occupant's position of owner/occupant will be jeopardized as a result of the improvements to be made with HPG funds; and


(iii) In the case of a loan, and to the extent possible, the co-owner(s) should also sign the security instrument.


(3) A leasehold interest in the property to be repaired, rehabilitated, or replaced. When the potential HPG recipient's “ownership” interest in the property is based on a leasehold interest, the lease must be in writing and a copy must be included in the grantee's file. The unexpired portion of the lease must not be less than 5 years and must permit the recipient to make modifications to the structure without increasing the recipient's lease cost.


(4) A life estate, with the right of present possession, control, and beneficial use of the property.


(5) Land assignments may be accepted as evidence of ownership only for American Indians living on a reservation, when historically the permits have been used by the tribe and have had the comparable effect of a life estate.


(c) *Other evidence of ownership.* The following items may be accepted as evidence of ownership if a recorded deed cannot be provided:


(1) Any legal instrument, whether or not recorded, which is commonly considered evidence of ownership.


(2) Evidence that the person(s) receiving assistance from the HPG grantee is listed as the owner of the property by the local taxing authority and is responsible for any real estate taxes.


(3) Affidavits by others in the community that the person(s) receiving assistance from the HPG grantee has occupied the property as the apparent owner for a period of not less than 10 years, and is generally believed to be the owner.



---

[N] [58 FR 21894, Apr. 26, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 26209, May 13, 1997]




