# § 503.1   Definitions—Privacy Act.

For the purpose of this part: 


*Agency* includes any executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President) or any independent regulatory agency. The Foreign Claims Settlement Commission (“Commission”) is an *agency* within the meaning of the term. 


*Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. 


*Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use or disseminate. 


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, an individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains an individual's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph. 


*Routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of that record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. 


*Statistical record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual except as provided by section 13 U.S.C. 8. 


*System of records* means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. 




