# ยง 700.295   Petitions for amendment: Action on appeals.

(a) *Authority.* Appeals from decisions on initial petitions for amendment shall be decided for the Commission by the Executive Director after consultation with the Commission's legal counsel unless the record challenged by the initial petition is a Civil Service Commission personnel record maintained for the Commission by the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission. Appeals from decisions on initial petitions requesting amendment of Civil Service Commission records maintained for the Commission by the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission shall be transmitted by the Executive Director, for decision.


(b) *Time limit.* (1) A final determination on any appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days (Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays excepted) after receipt of the appeal.


(2) The thirty (30) day period for decision on an appeal may be extended, for good cause shown, by the Commission. If the thirty (30) day period is extended, the individual submitting the appeal shall be notified of the extension and of the date on which a determination on the appeal is expected to be dispatched.


(c) *Form of decision.* (1) The final determination on an appeal shall be in writing and shall state the basis for the determination.


(2) If the determination upholds, in whole or part, the initial decision rejecting the petitioned for amendment, the determination shall also advise the individual submitting the appeal:


(i) Of his or her right to file a concise statement of the reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the agency;


(ii) Of the procedure established by ยง 700.297 for the filing of the statement of disagreement;


(iii) That the statement which is filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed together with, at the discretion of the Commission, a brief statement by the Commission summarizing its reasons for refusing to amend the record;


(iv) That prior recipients of the challenged record will be provided a copy of any statement of dispute to the extent that an accounting of disclosure was maintained; and


(v) Of his or her right to seek judicial review of the Commission's refusal to amend the record.


(3) If the determination reverses, in whole or in part, the initial decision rejecting the petitioned for amendment, the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record shall be directed to:


(i) Amend the challenged record accordingly; and


(ii) If an accounting of disclosure has been made, advise all previous recipients of the record which was amended of the amendment and its substance.




