# § 432.2   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Community service aides* means subprofessional staff, employed in a variety of positions, whose duties are an integral part of the agency's responsibility for planning, administration, and for delivery of health services. 


*Directly supporting staff* means secretarial, stenographic, and copying personnel and file and records clerks who provide clerical services that directly support the responsibilities of skilled professional medical personnel, who are directly supervised by the skilled professional medical personnel, and who are in an employer-employee relationship with the Medicaid agency. 


*Fringe benefits* means the employer's share of premiums for workmen's compensation, employees' retirement, unemployment compensation, health insurance, and similar expenses. 


*Full-time training* means training that requires employees to be relieved of all responsibility for performance of current agency work to participate in a training program. 


*Part-time training* means training that allows employees to continue full-time in their agency jobs or requires only partial reduction of work activities to participate in the training activity. 


*Skilled professional medical personnel* means physicians, dentists, nurses, and other specialized personnel who have professional education and training in the field of medical care or appropriate medical practice and who are in an employer-employee relationship with the Medicaid agency. It does not include other nonmedical health professionals such as public administrators, medical analysts, lobbyists, senior managers or administrators of public assistance programs or the Medicaid program. 


*Staff of other public agencies* means skilled professional medical personnel and directly supporting staff who are employed in State or local agencies other than the Medicaid agency who perform duties that directly relate to the administration of the Medicaid program. 


*Subprofessional staff* means persons performing tasks that demand little or no formal education; a high school diploma; or less than 4 years of college. 


*Supporting staff* means secretarial, stenographic, clerical, and other subprofessional staff whose activities are directly necessary to the carrying out of the functions which are the responsibility of skilled professional medical personnel, as defined in this section. 


*Training program* means a program of educational activities based on the agency's training needs and aimed at insuring that agency staff acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to perform their jobs. 


*Volunteer* means a person who contributes personal service to the community through the agency's program but is not a replacement or substitute for paid staff. 



---

[N] [43 FR 45199, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 50 FR 46663, Nov. 12, 1985; 50 FR 49389, Dec. 2, 1985] 




