# ยง 106.130   PHMSA response to an appeal.

Unless PHMSA provides otherwise, filing an appeal will not keep a final rule from becoming effective. We will handle an appeal according to the following procedures: 


(a) *Appeal of a final rule or withdrawal of a notice of proposed rulemaking.* (1) We may consolidate your appeal with other appeals of the same rule. 


(2) We may grant or deny your appeal, in whole or in part, without further rulemaking proceedings, unless granting your appeal would result in the issuance of a new final rule. 


(3) If we decide to grant your appeal, we may schedule further proceedings and an opportunity to comment. 


(4) PHMSA will notify you, in writing, of the action on your appeal within 90 days after the date that PHMSA published the final rule or withdrawal of notice of proposed rulemaking at issue in the _Federal Register._ If we do not issue a decision on your appeal within the 90-day period and we anticipate a substantial delay, we will notify you directly about the delay and will give you an expected decision date. We will also publish a notice of the delay in the _Federal Register._

(b) *Appeal of a decision.* (1) We will not consider your appeal if it merely repeats arguments that PHMSA has previously rejected. 


(2) PHMSA will notify you, in writing, of the action on your appeal within 90 days after the date that PHMSA served you with written notice of its decision on your petition for rulemaking. If we do not issue a decision on your appeal within the 90-day period, and we anticipate a substantial delay, we will notify you directly about the delay and will give you an expected decision date. 




