# § 1.6417-3   Special rules for electing taxpayers.

(a) *In general.* This section relates to the election available to electing taxpayers. An electing taxpayer that makes an elective payment election in accordance with this section is treated as an applicable entity for the duration of the election period, but only with respect to the applicable credit property described in proposed § 1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or (7), respectively, that is the subject of the election. *See* paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section for the specific rules regarding taxpayers making an election under section 6417(d)(1)(B), (C), or (D), respectively. *See* paragraph (e) of this section for rules relating to the making the election. *See* § 1.6417-4 for special rules related to electing taxpayers that are partnerships or S corporations.


(b) *Elections with respect to the credit for production of clean hydrogen.* An electing taxpayer that has placed in service applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(5) (in other words, a qualified clean hydrogen production facility as defined in section 45V(c)(3)) during the taxable year may make an elective payment election for such taxable year (or by August 16, 2023, in the case of facilities placed in service before December 31, 2022), but only with respect to the qualified clean hydrogen production facility, only with respect to the applicable credit described in § 1.6417-1(d)(5) (in other words, the section 45V credit), and only if the pre-filing registration required by § 1.6417-5 was properly completed. An electing taxpayer that elects to treat qualified property that is part of a specified clean hydrogen production facility as energy property under section 48(a)(15) may not make an elective payment election with respect to such facility.


(c) *Election with respect to the credit for carbon oxide sequestration.* An electing taxpayer that has, after December 31, 2022, placed in service applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(3) (in other words, a single process train described in § 1.45Q-2(c)(3) at a qualified facility (as defined in section 45Q(d)) during the taxable year may make an elective payment election for such taxable year, but only with respect to the single process train, only with respect to the applicable credit described in § 1.6417-1(d)(3) (in other words, the section 45Q credit), and only if the pre-filing registration required by § 1.6417-5 was properly completed.


(d) *Election with respect to the advanced manufacturing production credit.* An electing taxpayer that produces, after December 31, 2022, eligible components (as defined in section 45X(c)(1)) at an applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(7) during the taxable year (whether the facility existed on or before, or after, December 31, 2022) may make an elective payment election for such taxable year, but only with respect to the facility at which the eligible components are produced by the electing taxpayer in that year, only with respect to the applicable credit described in § 1.6417-1(d)(7) (in other words, the section 45X credit), and only if the pre-filing registration required by § 1.6417-5 was properly completed.


(e) *Election for electing taxpayers*—(1) *In general.* If an electing taxpayer makes an elective payment election under § 1.6417-2(b) with respect to any taxable year in which the electing taxpayer places in service a qualified clean hydrogen production facility for which a section 45V credit is determined, places in service a single process train at a qualified facility for which a section 45Q credit is determined, or produces, after December 31, 2022, eligible components (as defined in section 45X(c)(1)) at a facility, respectively, the electing taxpayer will be treated as an applicable entity for purposes of making an elective payment election for such taxable year and during the election period described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, but only with respect to the applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or (7), as applicable, that is the subject of the election. The taxpayer must otherwise meet all requirements to earn the credit in the electing year and in each succeeding year during the election period described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(2) *Election is per applicable credit property.* An elective payment election under § 1.6417-2(b) is made separately for each applicable credit property, which is, respectively, a qualified clean hydrogen production facility placed in service for which a section 45V credit is determined, a single process train placed in service at a qualified facility for which a section 45Q credit is determined, or a facility at which eligible components are produced for which a section 45X credit is determined. An electing taxpayer may only make one election with respect to any specific applicable credit property.


(3) *Election period*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, if an electing taxpayer makes an elective payment election under § 1.6417-2(b) with respect to applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or (7) for which an applicable credit is determined under § 1.6417-1(d)(3), (5), or (7), the election period during which such election applies includes the taxable year for which the election is made and each of the four subsequent taxable years that end before January 1, 2033. The election period cannot be less than a taxable year but may be made for a taxable period of less than 12 months within the meaning of section 443 of the Code.


(ii) *Revocation of election.* An electing taxpayer may, during a subsequent year of the election period described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, revoke the elective payment election with respect to an applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or (7), in accordance with forms and instructions. *See* § 601.602 of this chapter. Any such revocation, if made, applies to the taxable year for which the revocation is made (which cannot be less than a taxable year but may be made for a taxable period of less than 12 months as described in section 443 of the Code) and each subsequent taxable year within the election period. Any such revocation may not be subsequently revoked.


(4) *No transfer election under section 6418(a) permitted while an elective payment election is in effect.* No transfer election under section 6418(a) may be made by an electing taxpayer with respect to any applicable credit under § 1.6417-1(d)(3), (5), or (7) determined with respect to applicable credit property described in § 1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or (7) during the election period for that applicable credit property. However, if the election period is no longer in effect with respect to an applicable credit property, any credit determined with respect to such applicable credit property can be transferred pursuant to a transfer election under section 6418(a), as long as the taxpayer meets the requirements of section 6418 and the 6418 regulations.


(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years ending on or after March 11, 2024. For taxable years ending before March 11, 2024, taxpayers, however, may choose to apply the rules of §§ 1.6417-1 through 1.6417-4 and 1.6417-6, provided the taxpayers apply the rules in their entirety and in a consistent manner.



---

[N] [TD 9988, 89 FR 17584, Mar. 11, 2024]






