# § 21.88   Waterfowl sale and disposal permits.

(a) *Permit requirement.* You must have a waterfowl sale and disposal permit before you may lawfully sell, trade, donate, or otherwise dispose of most species of captive-reared and properly marked migratory waterfowl (family Anatidae) or their eggs. You do not need a permit to sell or dispose of properly marked captive-reared mallard ducks (*Anas platyrhynchos*) or their eggs.


(b) *Permit conditions.* In addition to the general conditions set forth in part 13 of this subchapter B, waterfowl sale and disposal permits are subject to the following conditions:


(1) You may not take migratory waterfowl or their eggs from the wild, unless take is provided for elsewhere in this subchapter.


(2) You may not acquire migratory waterfowl or their eggs from any person who does not have a valid waterfowl propagation permit.


(3) Before they are 6 weeks of age, all live captive migratory waterfowl possessed under authority of a valid waterfowl sale and disposal permit must be physically marked as defined in § 21.45(b).


(4) All offspring of birds hatched, reared, and retained in captivity also must be marked before they are 6 weeks of age in accordance with § 21.45(b), unless they are held in captivity at a public zoological park, or a public scientific or educational institution.


(5) Properly marked captive-bred birds may be killed, in any number, at any time or place, by any means except shooting. They may be killed by shooting only in accordance with all the applicable hunting regulations governing the taking of like species from the wild.


(6) At all times during possession, transportation, and storage, until the raw carcasses of such birds are finally processed immediately prior to cooking, smoking, or canning, the marked foot or wing must remain attached to each carcass. However, if you have a State license, permit, or authorization that allows you to sell game, you may remove the marked foot or wing from the raw carcasses if the number of your State license, permit, or authorization has been legibly stamped in ink on the back of each carcass and on the wrapping or container in which each carcass is maintained, or if each carcass is identified by a State band on a leg or wing pursuant to requirements of your State license, permit, or authorization.


(7) You may dispose of properly marked live or dead birds or their eggs (except muscovy ducks and their eggs) in any number at any time or place, or transfer them to any person, if the birds are physically marked prior to sale or disposal, regardless of whether or not they have attained 6 weeks of age.


(8) You may propagate muscovy ducks (*Cairina moschata*) only for sale for food.


(i) You may not release muscovy ducks to the wild or transfer them for release to the wild.


(ii) You may not sell or transfer muscovy ducks to be killed by shooting.


(9) If you transfer captive-bred birds or their eggs to another person, you must complete FWS Form 3-186, Notice of Transfer or Sale of Migratory Waterfowl, and provide all information required on the form, plus the method or methods by which individual birds are marked as required by § 21.45(b).


(i) Give the original of the completed form to the person acquiring the birds or eggs.


(ii) Retain one copy in your files.


(iii) Attach one copy to the shipping container for the birds or eggs, or include it with shipping documents that accompany the shipment.


(iv) By the end of the month in which you complete the transfer, mail two copies to the Fish and Wildlife Service Regional Office that issued your permit.


(c) *Reporting requirements.* You must submit an annual report by January 10th of each year to the Fish and Wildlife Service Regional Office that issued your permit. You must report the number of waterfowl of each species you possess on that date, and the method or methods by which each is marked.


(d) *Applying for a waterfowl propagation permit.* Submit your application for a waterfowl sale and disposal permit to the appropriate Regional Director (Attention: Migratory Bird Permit Office). You can find addresses for the Regional Directors in 50 CFR 2.2. Your application must contain the general information and certification required in § 13.12(a) of subchapter A of this chapter, and the following additional information:


(1) A description of the area where you will keep waterfowl in your possession;


(2) The species and numbers of waterfowl you possess and a statement showing from whom the birds were obtained;


(3) A statement indicating the method by which birds you hold will be marked as required by the provisions of this part 21; and


(4) The number and expiration of your State permit if you are required to have one.


(e) *Term of permit.* A waterfowl sale and disposal permit issued or renewed under this part expires on the date designated on the face of the permit unless amended or revoked, but the term of the permit will not exceed five (5) years from the date of issuance or renewal.



---

[N] [75 FR 9320, Mar. 1, 2010. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 881, 882, Jan. 7, 2022]




