# § 184.1025   Caprylic acid.

(a) Caprylic acid [CH_3_(CH_2_)_6_COOH, CAS Reg. No. 124-07-2] is the chemical name for octanoic acid. It is considered to be a short or medium chain fatty acid. It occurs normally in various foods and is commercially prepared by oxidation of *n*-octanol or by fermentation and fractional distillation of the volatile fatty acids present in coconut oil.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the “Food Chemicals Codex,” 3d Ed. (1981), p. 207, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in foods in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practices result in maximum levels, as served, of: 0.013 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.04 percent for cheeses as defined in § 170.3(n)(5) of this chapter; 0.005 percent for fats and oils as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter, for frozen dairy desserts as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter, for gelatins and puddings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter, for meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter, and for soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; 0.016 percent for snack foods as defined in § 170.3(n)(37) of this chapter; and 0.001 percent or less for all other food categories.


(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [43 FR 19843, May 9, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 5611, Feb. 14, 1984]




