# ยง 1924.253   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Newly constructed dwelling.* One which:


(1) Is financed with a section 502 insured loan;


(2) Was constructed substantially or wholly under the contract method, or under a conditional commitment, or, as to only work performed by a contractor or covered by a manufacturer's warranty, under the mutual self-help program;


(3) Was not more than one year old and not previously occupied as a residence at the time financial assistance was granted unless Rural Development has extended the conditional commitment issued on a newly constructed dwelling in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550; and


(4) Had the required construction inspections performed by Rural Development, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), or the Veterans Administration (VA).


(b) *Newly constructed manufactured home (unit).* One which:


(1) Is financed with a section 502 insured loan;


(2) Was not more than one year old and not previously occupied as a residence at the time financial assistance was granted; and


(3) Is built to the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (FMHCSS) and is certified by an affixed label as shown in exhibit J of subpart A of part 1924 of this chapter.


(c) *Non-structural defect.* A construction defect which does not affect the overall useful life, habitability, or structural integrity of the dwelling or unit. Some non-structural defects may be covered under the contractor's warranty. Examples of non-structural defects include, but are not limited to:


(1) Cracks attributed to normal curing or settlement.


(2) Cosmetic defects in cabinets, woodwork, floorcovering, wallcovering, ornamental trim, etc.


(3) Improper or incomplete seeding or sodding of yard, or failure of trees, shrubs, grass and other landscaping items to thrive.


(4) Improper grading of yard, unless the grade is causing damage which may lead to a structural defect.


(d) *Structural defect.* A defect in the dwelling or unit, installation or set-up of a unit, or a related facility or a deficiency in the site or site development which directly and significantly reduces the useful life, habitability, or integrity of the dwelling or unit. The defect may be due to faulty material, poor workmanship, or latent causes that existed when the dwelling or unit was constructed. The term includes, but is not limited to:


(1) Structural failures which directly and significantly affect the basic integrity of the dwelling or unit such as in the foundation, footings, basement walls, slabs, floors, framing, walls, ceiling, or roof.


(2) Major deficiencies in the utility components of the dwelling or unit or site such as faulty wiring, or failure of sewage disposal or water supply systems located on the property securing the loan caused by faulty materials or improper installation.


(3) Serious defects in or improper installation of heating systems or central air conditioning.


(4) Defects in or improper installation of safety and security devices, such as windows, external doors, locks, smoke detectors, railings, etc., as well as failure to provide or properly install devices to aid occupancy of dwellings by handicapped individuals, where required.


(5) Defects in or improper installation of protective materials, such as insulation, siding, roofing material, exterior paint, etc.



---

[N] [56 FR 40241, Aug. 14, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 78327, Dec. 24, 2002]




