# § 600.10   Form and content of applications.

(a) *General.* Applications shall be required for all financial assistance projects or programs. 


(b) *Forms.* Applications shall be on the form specified in a program rule, the program announcement, or these regulations. (See also §§ 600.112 and 600.210.) For unsolicited applications, a guide for preparation and submission is available from U.S. Department of Energy, Federal Energy Technology Center, Attn: Unsolicited Proposal Manager, Post Office Box 10940, Pittsburgh, PA, 15236-0940.


(c) *Contents of an application.* In general, a financial assistance application shall include: 


(1) A facesheet containing basic identifying information. The facesheet shall be the Standard Form (SF)424; 


(2) A detailed narrative description of the proposed project, including the objectives of the project and the applicant's plan for carrying it out; 


(3) A budget with supporting justification; and 


(d) *Incomplete applications.* DOE may return an application that: 


(1) Is not signed, either in writing or electronically, by an official authorized to bind the applicant; or 


(2) Omits any information or documentation required by statute, program rule, or the solicitation, if the nature of the omission precludes review of the application. 


(e) *Supplemental information.* During the review of a complete application, DOE may request the submission of additional information only if the information is essential to evaluate the application. 


(f) Registration is required in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) for all applications. Information on registration can be obtained at *http://www.ccr.gov/Grantees.aspx.*


---

[N] [61 FR 7166, Feb. 26, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 56420, Oct. 20, 1999; 69 FR 7867, Feb. 20, 2004; 74 FR 44276, Aug. 28, 2009]




