# § 2887.11   May I assign or make other changes to my grant or TUP?

(a) With the BLM's approval, you may assign, in whole or in part, any right or interest in a grant or TUP. Assignment actions that may require BLM approval include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) The transfer by the holder (assignor) of any right or interest in the grant or TUP to a third party (assignee); and


(2) Changes in ownership or other related change in control transactions involving the BLM right-of-way grant holder or TUP holder and another business entity (assignee), including corporate mergers or acquisitions, but not transactions within the same corporate family.


(b) The BLM may require a grant or lease holder to file new or revised information in some circumstances that do not constitute an assignment (see subpart 2883 and §§ 2884.11(c) and 2886.12). Circumstances that would not constitute an assignment but may necessitate this filing include, but are not limited to:


(1) Transactions within the same corporate family;


(2) Changes in the holder's name only (see paragraph (h) of this section); and


(3) Changes in the holder's articles of incorporation.


(c) In order to assign a grant or TUP, the proposed assignee, subject to § 2886.11, must file an application and follow the same procedures and standards as for a new grant or TUP, including paying processing fees (see § 2884.12).


(d) The assignment application must also include:


(1) Documentation that the assignor agrees to the assignment; and


(2) A signed statement that the proposed assignee agrees to comply with and to be bound by the terms and conditions of the grant or TUP that is being assigned and all applicable laws and regulations.


(e) Your assignment is not recognized until the BLM approves it in writing. We will approve the assignment if doing so is in the public interest. The BLM may modify the grant or TUP or add bonding and other requirements, including terms and conditions, to the grant or TUP when approving the assignment. If we approve the assignment, the benefits and liabilities of the grant or TUP apply to the new grant or TUP holder.


(f) The processing time and conditions described at § 2884.21 apply to assignment applications.


(g) Only interests in issued right-of-way grants and TUPs are assignable. Pending right-of-way and TUP applications do not create any property rights or other interest and may not be assigned from one entity to another, except that an entity with a pending application may continue to pursue that application even if that entity becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a new third party.


(h) *Change in name only of holder.* Name-only changes are made by individuals, partnerships, corporations, and other right-of-way and TUP holders for a variety of business or legal reasons. To complete a change in name only, (*i.e.,* when the name change in question is not the result of an underlying change in control of the right-of-way grant or TUP), the following requirements must be met:


(1) The holder must file an application requesting a name change and follow the same procedures as for a new grant or TUP, including paying processing fees (see subpart 2884 of this part). The name change request must include:


(i) If the name change is for an individual, a copy of the court order or other legal document effectuating the name change; or


(ii) If the name change is for a corporation, a copy of the corporate resolution(s) proposing and approving the name change, a copy of the filing/acceptance of the change in name by the State or territory in which it is incorporated, and a copy of the appropriate resolution(s), order(s), or other documentation showing the name change.


(2) In connection with processing of a name change only, the BLM retains the authority under § 2885.13(e) to modify the grant or TUP, or add bonding and other requirements, including additional terms and conditions, to the grant or TUP.


(3) Your name change is not recognized until the BLM approves it in writing.


(i) You must seek an amendment of your authorization if you propose a substantial deviation in location or use.







---

[N] [81 FR 92229, Dec. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 25976, Apr. 12, 2024]




