# § 15.14   Demand for testimony or production of documents in matters in which the United States is not a party.

(a) *General.* Every demand for testimony or documents in a legal matter in which the United States is not a named party shall be made in writing, delivered in accordance with § 15.13(b) no later than 30 days before the document or testimony is required, and shall be accompanied by an affidavit or written declaration under 28 U.S.C. 1746, or, if an affidavit or declaration is not feasible, a written statement setting forth:


(1) The title of the legal proceeding,


(2) The forum;


(3) The requesting party's interest in the legal proceeding;


(4) The reason for the demand and the relevance of the request to the legal proceeding;


(5) A showing that the desired testimony or document is not reasonably available from any other source; and


(6) If testimony is requested, the intended use of the testimony; a general summary of the desired testimony; the time that will be required to prepare for, travel to, and present testimony; and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony, including from opposing parties via discovery proceedings.


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of the requirement in this section is to assist the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel in making an informed decision regarding whether testimony or the production of a document(s) should be authorized, in accordance with § 15.16. Any authorization for testimony by an employee of the Department shall be limited to the scope of the demand as summarized in the statement or as negotiated in paragraph (e) of this section.


(c) *Prior authorization.* A certified copy of a document that has been authorized pursuant to § 15.16(a) for use in a legal proceeding may be provided upon written request and payment of applicable fees. Written requests for certification must be addressed to the agency counsel for the component having possession, custody, or control of the document. The requestor must provide the agency with information regarding the prior authorization for release of the requested document pursuant to § 15.16(a), including date of release and parties to whom the document was released.


(d) *Secretary's authority.* The Secretary retains the authority to authorize and direct testimony in those cases where a statute or Presidential order mandates a personal decision by the Secretary.


(e) *Consultation.* The General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel may consult or negotiate with an attorney for a party, or with the party if not represented by an attorney, to refine or limit a demand so that compliance is less burdensome or seek additional information about the demand necessary to make the determination required by paragraph (b) of this section. Failure of the attorney or party to cooperate in good faith to enable the General Counsel or the appropriate agency counsel to make an informed decision under this subpart may serve, where appropriate, as a basis for a determination not to comply with the demand. In addition, the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel may impose further conditions or restrictions on the production of any document or testimony when that is in the best interests of the United States.


(f) *Fact witness.* If an employee is authorized to give testimony in a legal proceeding not involving the United States, the testimony, if otherwise proper, shall be limited to facts within the personal knowledge of the employee that are not classified, privileged, or protected from disclosure under applicable law or regulation. If asked to provide factual testimony that the employee believes may be classified, privileged, or protected from disclosure under applicable law or regulation, then the witness shall:


(1) Respectfully decline to answer on the grounds that such testimony is prohibited; and


(2) Request an opportunity to consult with the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel.


(g) *Expert or opinion witness.* (1) Current employees, with or without compensation, shall not provide expert or opinion testimony in any legal proceedings regarding Department information, subjects, or activities except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the United States Department of Justice. However, upon a showing by the requester that there are exceptional circumstances and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the Department or the United States, the General Counsel, or appropriate agency counsel after consultation with the Office of the General Counsel, may grant special authorization in writing for a current employee to appear and give the expert or opinion testimony.


(i) If, while testifying in any legal proceeding, an employee is asked for expert or opinion testimony regarding official information, subjects, or activities, which testimony has not been approved in advance in accordance with the regulations in this subpart, the witness shall:


(A) Respectfully decline to answer on the grounds that such expert or opinion testimony is forbidden by the regulations in this subpart;


(B) Request an opportunity to consult with the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel before giving such testimony; and


(C) Explain that upon such consultation, approval for such testimony may be provided.


(ii) If the body conducting the proceeding then orders the witness to provide expert or opinion testimony regarding official information, subjects, or activities without the opportunity to consult with either the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel, the witness shall respectfully refuse to provide such testimony. *See United States ex rel. Touhy* v. *Ragen,* 340 U.S. 462 (1951).


(iii) If an employee is unaware of the regulations in this subpart and provides expert or opinion testimony regarding official information, subjects, or activities in a legal proceeding without the consultation discussed in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, the witness must, as soon as possible after testifying, inform the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel that such testimony was given and provide a written summary of the expert or opinion testimony provided.


(2) Former employees may provide opinion or expert testimony if:


(i) The testimony does not involve non-public facts, information, or documents about a particular matter that were acquired by the former employee during the performance of their employment with the United States; and


(ii) The involvement of the former employee in the proceeding as a witness complies with 18 U.S.C. 207 and applicable post-employment ethics rules. *See* 5 CFR part 2641. Former employees offering expert or opinion testimony and those seeking such testimony from former employees, must confer with the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel to ascertain if the prospective expert or opinion testimony is consistent with this subpart.


(h) *Decision.* A decision under this subpart to comply or not to comply with a demand is neither an assertion or waiver of privilege, nor an assertion of lack of relevance or technical deficiency, nor does it reflect any other ground for noncompliance.


(i) *Waiver.* The General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel may waive any requirements set forth under this section to the extent allowed by law, when circumstances warrant.



---

[N] [87 FR 162, Jan. 4, 2022]






