# § 60.41c   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Annual capacity factor* means the ratio between the actual heat input to a steam generating unit from an individual fuel or combination of fuels during a period of 12 consecutive calendar months and the potential heat input to the steam generating unit from all fuels had the steam generating unit been operated for 8,760 hours during that 12-month period at the maximum design heat input capacity. In the case of steam generating units that are rented or leased, the actual heat input shall be determined based on the combined heat input from all operations of the affected facility during a period of 12 consecutive calendar months.


*Coal* means all solid fuels classified as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), coal refuse, and petroleum coke. Coal-derived synthetic fuels derived from coal for the purposes of creating useful heat, including but not limited to solvent refined coal, gasified coal not meeting the definition of natural gas, coal-oil mixtures, and coal-water mixtures, are also included in this definition for the purposes of this subpart.


*Coal refuse* means any by-product of coal mining or coal cleaning operations with an ash content greater than 50 percent (by weight) and a heating value less than 13,900 kilojoules per kilogram (kJ/kg) (6,000 Btu per pound (Btu/lb) on a dry basis.


*Combined cycle system* means a system in which a separate source (such as a stationary gas turbine, internal combustion engine, or kiln) provides exhaust gas to a steam generating unit.


*Combustion research* means the experimental firing of any fuel or combination of fuels in a steam generating unit for the purpose of conducting research and development of more efficient combustion or more effective prevention or control of air pollutant emissions from combustion, provided that, during these periods of research and development, the heat generated is not used for any purpose other than preheating combustion air for use by that steam generating unit (*i.e.*, the heat generated is released to the atmosphere without being used for space heating, process heating, driving pumps, preheating combustion air for other units, generating electricity, or any other purpose).


*Conventional technology* means wet flue gas desulfurization technology, dry flue gas desulfurization technology, atmospheric fluidized bed combustion technology, and oil hydrodesulfurization technology.


*Distillate oil* means fuel oil that complies with the specifications for fuel oil numbers 1 or 2, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D396 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), diesel fuel oil numbers 1 or 2, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D975 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), kerosine, as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D3699 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), biodiesel as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D6751 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or biodiesel blends as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D7467 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


*Dry flue gas desulfurization technology* means a SO_2_ control system that is located between the steam generating unit and the exhaust vent or stack, and that removes sulfur oxides from the combustion gases of the steam generating unit by contacting the combustion gases with an alkaline reagent and water, whether introduced separately or as a premixed slurry or solution and forming a dry powder material. This definition includes devices where the dry powder material is subsequently converted to another form. Alkaline reagents used in dry flue gas desulfurization systems include, but are not limited to, lime and sodium compounds.


*Duct burner* means a device that combusts fuel and that is placed in the exhaust duct from another source (such as a stationary gas turbine, internal combustion engine, kiln, etc.) to allow the firing of additional fuel to heat the exhaust gases before the exhaust gases enter a steam generating unit.


*Emerging technology* means any SO_2_ control system that is not defined as a conventional technology under this section, and for which the owner or operator of the affected facility has received approval from the Administrator to operate as an emerging technology under § 60.48c(a)(4).


*Federally enforceable* means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the Administrator, including the requirements of 40 CFR parts 60 and 61, requirements within any applicable State implementation plan, and any permit requirements established under 40 CFR 52.21 or under 40 CFR 51.18 and 51.24.


*Fluidized bed combustion technology* means a device wherein fuel is distributed onto a bed (or series of beds) of limestone aggregate (or other sorbent materials) for combustion; and these materials are forced upward in the device by the flow of combustion air and the gaseous products of combustion. Fluidized bed combustion technology includes, but is not limited to, bubbling bed units and circulating bed units.


*Fuel pretreatment* means a process that removes a portion of the sulfur in a fuel before combustion of the fuel in a steam generating unit.


*Heat input* means heat derived from combustion of fuel in a steam generating unit and does not include the heat derived from preheated combustion air, recirculated flue gases, or exhaust gases from other sources (such as stationary gas turbines, internal combustion engines, and kilns).


*Heat transfer medium* means any material that is used to transfer heat from one point to another point.


*Maximum design heat input capacity* means the ability of a steam generating unit to combust a stated maximum amount of fuel (or combination of fuels) on a steady state basis as determined by the physical design and characteristics of the steam generating unit.


*Natural gas* means:


(1) A naturally occurring mixture of hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon gases found in geologic formations beneath the earth's surface, of which the principal constituent is methane; or


(2) Liquefied petroleum (LP) gas, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D1835 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17); or


(3) A mixture of hydrocarbons that maintains a gaseous state at ISO conditions. Additionally, natural gas must either be composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or have a gross calorific value between 34 and 43 megajoules (MJ) per dry standard cubic meter (910 and 1,150 Btu per dry standard cubic foot).


*Noncontinental area* means the State of Hawaii, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Northern Mariana Islands.


*Oil* means crude oil or petroleum, or a liquid fuel derived from crude oil or petroleum, including distillate oil and residual oil.


*Potential sulfur dioxide emission rate* means the theoretical SO_2_ emissions (nanograms per joule (ng/J) or lb/MMBtu heat input) that would result from combusting fuel in an uncleaned state and without using emission control systems.


*Process heater* means a device that is primarily used to heat a material to initiate or promote a chemical reaction in which the material participates as a reactant or catalyst.


*Residual oil* means crude oil, fuel oil that does not comply with the specifications under the definition of distillate oil, and all fuel oil numbers 4, 5, and 6, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D396 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


*Steam generating unit* means a device that combusts any fuel and produces steam or heats water or heats any heat transfer medium. This term includes any duct burner that combusts fuel and is part of a combined cycle system. This term does not include process heaters as defined in this subpart.


*Steam generating unit operating day* means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the steam generating unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted continuously for the entire 24-hour period.


*Temporary boiler* means a steam generating unit that combusts natural gas or distillate oil with a potential SO_2_ emissions rate no greater than 26 ng/J (0.060 lb/MMBtu), and the unit is designed to, and is capable of, being carried or moved from one location to another by means of, for example, wheels, skids, carrying handles, dollies, trailers, or platforms. A steam generating unit is not a temporary boiler if any one of the following conditions exists:


(1) The equipment is attached to a foundation.


(2) The steam generating unit or a replacement remains at a location for more than 180 consecutive days. Any temporary boiler that replaces a temporary boiler at a location and performs the same or similar function will be included in calculating the consecutive time period.


(3) The equipment is located at a seasonal facility and operates during the full annual operating period of the seasonal facility, remains at the facility for at least 2 years, and operates at that facility for at least 3 months each year.


(4) The equipment is moved from one location to another in an attempt to circumvent the residence time requirements of this definition.


*Wet flue gas desulfurization technology* means an SO_2_ control system that is located between the steam generating unit and the exhaust vent or stack, and that removes sulfur oxides from the combustion gases of the steam generating unit by contacting the combustion gases with an alkaline slurry or solution and forming a liquid material. This definition includes devices where the liquid material is subsequently converted to another form. Alkaline reagents used in wet flue gas desulfurization systems include, but are not limited to, lime, limestone, and sodium compounds.


*Wet scrubber system* means any emission control device that mixes an aqueous stream or slurry with the exhaust gases from a steam generating unit to control emissions of PM or SO_2_.


*Wood* means wood, wood residue, bark, or any derivative fuel or residue thereof, in any form, including but not limited to sawdust, sanderdust, wood chips, scraps, slabs, millings, shavings, and processed pellets made from wood or other forest residues.



---

[N] [72 FR 32759, June 13, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 5090, Jan. 28, 2009; 77 FR 9461, Feb. 16, 2012]




