# ยง 471.3   What exceptions apply and what exemptions are available?

(a) *Exceptions for specific types of contracts.* The requirements of this part do not apply to any of the following:


(1) Collective bargaining agreements as defined in the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, entered into by an agency and the exclusive representative of employees in an appropriate unit to set terms and conditions of employment of those employees.


(2) Government contracts that involve purchases below the simplified acquisition threshold set by Congress under the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act. Therefore, the employee notice clause need not be included in government contracts for purchases below that threshold, provided that


(i) No agency or contractor is permitted to procure supplies or services in a manner designed to avoid the applicability of the Order and this part; and


(ii) The employee notice clause must be included in government contracts for indefinite quantities, unless the contracting agency or contractor has reason to believe that the amount to be ordered in any year under such a contract will be less than the simplified acquisition threshold set in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act.


(3) Government contracts resulting from solicitations issued before the effective date of this rule.


(4) Subcontracts of $10,000 or less in value, except that contractors and subcontractors are not permitted to procure supplies or services in a manner designed to avoid the applicability of the Order and this part.


(5) Contracts and subcontracts for work performed exclusively outside the territorial United States.


(b) *Exemptions for certain contracts.* The Director of OLMS may exempt a contracting department or agency or groups of departments or agencies from the requirements of this part with respect to a particular contract or subcontract or any class of contracts or subcontracts when the Director finds that either:


(1) The application of any of the requirements of this part would not serve its purposes or would impair the ability of the Government to procure goods or services on an economical and efficient basis; or


(2) Special circumstances require an exemption in order to serve the national interest.


(c) *Procedures for requesting an exemption and withdrawals of exemptions.* Requests for exemptions under this subsection from a contracting department or agency must be in writing, and must be directed to the Director of OLMS, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N-5603, Washington, DC, 20210. The Director of OLMS may withdraw an exemption granted when, in the Director's judgment, such action is necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this part.




