# § 1206.52   How do I calculate royalty value for oil that I or my affiliate sell(s) or exchange(s) under an arm's-length contract?

(a) The value of production for royalty purposes for your lease is the higher of either the value determined under this section or the IBMP value calculated under § 1206.54. The value of oil under this section for royalty purposes is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under the arm's-length contract, less applicable allowances determined under § 1206.56 or § 1206.57. You must use this paragraph (a) to value oil when:


(1) You sell under an arm's-length sales contract.


(2) You sell or transfer to your affiliate or another person under a non-arm's-length contract and that affiliate or person, or another affiliate of either of them, then sells the oil under an arm's-length contract.


(b) If you have multiple arm's-length contracts to sell oil produced from a lease that is valued under paragraph (a) of this section, the value of the oil is the higher of the volume-weighted average of the values established under this section for all contracts for the sale of oil produced from that lease or the IBMP value calculated under § 1206.54.


(c) If ONRR determines that the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate does not reflect the reasonable value of the production due to either:


(1) Misconduct by or between the parties to the arm's-length contract; or


(2) Breach of your duty to market the oil for the mutual benefit of yourself and the lessor, ONRR will establish a value based on other relevant matters.


(i) ONRR will not use this provision to simply substitute its judgment of the market value of the oil for the proceeds received by the seller under an arm's-length sales contract.


(ii) The fact that the price received by the seller under an arm's-length contract is less than other measures of market price is insufficient to establish breach of the duty to market unless ONRR finds additional evidence that the seller acted unreasonably or in bad faith in the sale of oil produced from the lease.


(d) You have the burden of demonstrating that your or your affiliate's contract is arm's-length.


(e) ONRR may require you to certify that the provisions in your or your affiliate's contract include all of the consideration that the buyer paid to you or your affiliate, either directly or indirectly, for the oil.


(f) You must base value on the highest price that you or your affiliate can receive through legally enforceable claims under the oil sales contract.


(1) Absent contract revision or amendment, if you or your affiliate fail(s) to take proper or timely action to receive prices or benefits to which you or your affiliate are entitled, you must pay royalty based upon that obtainable price or benefit.


(2) If you or your affiliate make timely application for a price increase or benefit allowed under your or your affiliate's contract—but the purchaser refuses—and you or your affiliate take reasonable documented measures to force purchaser compliance, you will not owe additional royalties unless or until you or your affiliate receive additional monies or consideration resulting from the price increase. You may not construe this paragraph (f)(2) to permit you to avoid your royalty payment obligation in situations where a purchaser fails to pay, in whole or in part, or in a timely manner, for a quantity of oil.


(g)(1) You or your affiliate must make all contracts, contract revisions, or amendments in writing, and all parties to the contract must sign the contract, contract revisions, or amendments.


(2) This provision applies notwithstanding any other provisions in this title 30 of the *Code of Federal Regulations* to the contrary.


(h) If you or your affiliate enter(s) into an arm's-length exchange agreement, or multiple sequential arm's-length exchange agreements, then you must value your oil under this paragraph (h).


(1) If you or your affiliate exchange(s) oil at arm's length for WTI or equivalent oil at Cushing, Oklahoma, you must value the oil using the NYMEX price, adjusted for applicable location and quality differentials under paragraph (h)(3) of this section and any transportation costs under paragraph (h)(4) of this section and §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58.


(2) If you do not exchange oil for WTI or equivalent oil at Cushing, but exchange it at arm's length for oil at another location and following the arm's-length exchange(s) you or your affiliate sell(s) the oil received in the exchange(s) under an arm's-length contract, then you must use the gross proceeds under your or your affiliate's arm's-length sales contract after the exchange(s) occur(s), adjusted for applicable location and quality differentials under paragraph (h)(3) of this section and any transportation costs under paragraph (h)(4) of this section and §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58.


(3) You must adjust your gross proceeds for any location or quality differential, or other adjustments, that you received or paid under the arm's-length exchange agreement(s). If ONRR determines that any exchange agreement does not reflect reasonable location or quality differentials, ONRR may adjust the differentials that you used based on relevant information. You may not otherwise use the price or differential specified in an arm's-length exchange agreement to value your production.


(4) If you value oil under this paragraph (h), ONRR will allow a deduction, under §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58, for the reasonable, actual costs to transport the oil:


(i) From the lease to a point where oil is given in exchange.


(ii) If oil is not exchanged to Cushing, Oklahoma, from the point where oil is received in exchange to the point where the oil received in exchange is sold.


(5) If you or your affiliate exchange(s) your oil at arm's length, and neither paragraph (h)(1) nor (2) of this section applies, ONRR will establish a value for the oil based on relevant matters. After ONRR establishes the value, you must report and pay royalties and any late payment interest owed based on that value.




