# ยง 253.13   Initial investigation and approval.

(a) The Program shall undertake a due diligence investigation of every application it receives to determine if, in the Program's sole judgment, the application is both:


(1) Eligible for a loan because it meets applicable loan requirements; and


(2) Qualified for a loan because the project is deemed an acceptable credit risk.


(b) The Program will approve eligible and qualified applicants by evaluating the information obtained during the application and investigation process.


(c) Among other investigations, applicants may be subject to a background check, fisheries violations check and credit review. Background checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's honesty or financial integrity.


(d) The Program, at its own discretion, may decline or delay approval of any loans or disbursements to any applicant found to have outstanding citations, notices of violations, or other pending legal actions or unresolved claims.


(e) The Program may place any terms and conditions on such approvals that the Program, in its sole discretion, deems necessary and appropriate.


(f) *Credit decision.* (1) The Program shall issue to approved applicants an AIP letter, which shall describe the terms and conditions of the loan, including (but not limited to) loan amounts, maturities, additional collateral, repayment sources or guarantees. Such terms and conditions are at the Program's sole discretion and shall also be incorporated in security documents that the Program prepares. An applicant's non-acceptance of any terms and conditions may result in an applicant's disqualification.


(2) Any application the Program deems ineligible or unqualified will be declined.




