# § 618.240   Termination of certification.

(a) *Initiation.* Whenever the Administrator of the Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance has reason to believe, with respect to any nonexpired certification, that the total or partial separations or threat of separation from a firm, or appropriate subdivision thereof, are no longer attributable to the conditions specified in section 222 of the Act and § 618.225, the Administrator must promptly conduct an investigation.


(b) *Notice.* A notice of the initiation of an investigation to terminate a certification must be published in the _Federal Register_*,* and on the Department's website, and provided to the petitioner(s) of the certification under investigation, the firm official(s), and State(s) that contain the location(s) of the workers comprising the worker group covered by the certification. The State(s) must also promptly notify the workers in the worker group.


(c) *Opportunity for comment.* Within 10 calendar days after publication of the notice under paragraph (b) of this section, members of the worker group or any other person who has a substantial interest in the matter may provide evidence in writing supporting the continuation of eligibility of certification to show why the certification should not be terminated. If a hearing is requested, it will be conducted in accordance with § 618.215. If no evidence is provided by any interested party within 10 days from the date of publication to the _Federal Register_ or on the Department's website, whichever is later, a determination must be issued once the investigation is complete. Evidence (except at a timely requested hearing) and hearing requests submitted outside the 10-day period will not be accepted.


(d) *Investigation of termination of a certification.* The Department will conduct a review of the record on which the certification was based, any evidence timely filed under paragraph (c) of this section, and any data submitted with the petition or provided subsequent to the filing of the petition.


(e) *Determination to terminate or partially terminate a certification.* A determination to terminate a certification may cover the entire worker group specified in the certification or a portion of that group. Such termination or partial termination must apply only with respect to total or partial separations occurring after the termination date specified in the determination notice and must only take effect after the determination becomes final, either after the period in which to request reconsideration has lapsed or after a determination on reconsideration is made.


(1) Upon making a determination that the certification should be terminated for all or part of the worker group specified in the certification, the Department will issue a determination, which will contain the reasons for making such determination, and notify the petitioner(s) of the original certification, the firm official(s), and the State(s). The Department will also publish the notice in the _Federal Register_*,* and on the Department's website. The State will notify the worker group of the termination or partial termination.


(2) The termination date specified in the determination notice must not be earlier than the date of publication in the _Federal Register_.


(f) *Determination of continuation of certification.* After an investigation resulting in a decision that the certification should not be terminated, the Department will notify the petitioner(s) of the original certification, firm official(s), and the State(s). The State(s) will notify the worker group of the determination of continuation of certification. The Department will publish the determination in the _Federal Register_ and on the Department's website. After receiving notice by the Department, the State(s) must notify the worker group of the continuation of certification.


(g) *Reconsideration of termination or partial termination of a certification.* Any party that is eligible under § 618.205 to submit a petition may file an application for reconsideration with the Department, following the procedures described in § 618.245.




