# § 10.422   Submission of certificate of eligibility.

(a) *Contents.* An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment on a non-originating cotton or man-made fiber fabric or apparel good must submit, at the request of the Center director, a certificate of eligibility containing information demonstrating that the good satisfies the requirements for entry under the applicable TPL, as set forth in § 10.421 of this subpart. A certificate of eligibility submitted to CBP under this section:


(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;


(2) Must include the following information:


(i) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address of the importer of record of the good;


(ii) The legal name and address of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the certificate (if different from the importer of record), and that person's telephone and e-mail address, if available;


(iii) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);


(iv) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address of the producer of the good (if known);


(v) A description of the good, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;


(vi) The HTSUS tariff classification of the good, to six or more digits, as well as the applicable subheading in Chapter 99 of the HTSUS (9911.99.20 or 9911.99.40);


(vii) For a single shipment, the commercial invoice number;


(viii) For multiple shipments of identical goods, the blanket period in “mm/dd/yyyy to mm/dd/yyyy” format (12-month maximum); and


(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:


(b) *Responsible official or agent.* The certificate of eligibility required to be submitted under this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.


(c) *Language.* The certificate of eligibility must be completed either in the English or Spanish language. If the certificate is completed in Spanish, the importer must also provide to the Center director, upon request, a written English translation of the certificate;


(d) *Applicability of certificate of eligibility.* A certificate of eligibility may be applicable to:


(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or


(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the certificate.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76133, Dec. 20, 2006]




