# § 32.23   Arkansas.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Bald Knob National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, merganser, snipe, woodcock, rail, gallinule, crow, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.


(ii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry, unless the refuge is closed to deer hunting at that time due to implementation of State flood closure zone regulations.


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. Except when hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge by 1 p.m. All other hunters, including those hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iv) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon), except that during the State Conservation Order, you may hunt for applicable goose species until legal sunset. Snipe, woodcock, rail, gallinule, crow, and dove hunters may hunt until legal sunset.


(v) When waterfowl hunting, you may not possess more than 25 shotgun shells while in the field, except that during the State Conservation Order, there is no limit on the number of shells you may possess while hunting applicable goose species.


(vi) We prohibit hunting closer than 100 yards (91 meters) to another hunter or hunting party.


(vii) You must remove decoys, blinds, boats, and all other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(viii) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for migratory bird and upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.


(ix) We allow incidental take of beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(x) We allow the use of dogs when migratory game bird hunting.


(xi) We close the Waterfowl Sanctuary Hunt Unit to all entry and hunting from November 15 to February 28, except that quota gun deer hunters may hunt in that Unit when the season overlaps with these dates.


(xii) We allow waterfowl hunting from mowed and/or graveled road rights-of-way, but we prohibit all other hunting from these rights-of-way.


(xiii) We allow only hunters to use all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and only from September 1 through March 31, except that during the State Conservation Order, hunters may use ATVs for hunting applicable goose species.


(xiv) Hunters may use conventional motor vehicles, ATVs, bicycles, and e-bikes only on public use roads, levee tops, designated ATV trails (open to ATVs only), and established parking lots not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.


(xv) Hunters and anglers may use conventional motor vehicles only in the Bison, Waterfowl Sanctuary, and Core Waterfowl Area Hunt Units and only from March 1 through November 14.


(xvi) From November 15 through February 28, we close the Core Waterfowl Area Hunt Unit to all hunting, fishing, and public entry at 1 p.m. daily, except that during the State Conservation Order, you may hunt applicable goose species in this Unit until legal sunset.


(xvii) We prohibit the use of personal watercraft (*e.g.,* jet skis), airboats, and hovercraft for hunting and fishing on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, quail, raccoon, opossum, beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), (viii), (ix), and (xi) through (xvii) of this section apply.


(ii) Hunters may use shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle.


(iii) We allow squirrel, rabbit, opossum, raccoon, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting upland game.


(v) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 1 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow hunting of raccoon and opossum at night (from 30 minutes after legal sunset to 30 minutes before legal sunrise) on the refuge.


(vi) We prohibit hunting from a vehicle.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), (viii), (ix), and (xi) through (xvii), (2)(v), and (2)(vi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery/crossbow, modern gun, and muzzleloader deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iii) Turkey hunting will be conducted in the Bison, Waterfowl Sanctuary, and Mingo Creek Hunt Units according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iv) Hunters may use only shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths greater than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle for modern gun deer hunting on the Bison, Core Waterfowl Area, and Waterfowl Sanctuary Hunt Units.


(v) You may erect portable stands and blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season and must remove them from the waterfowl sanctuary prior to November 15, except for stands used by quota gun deer hunters, which you must remove by the last day of the quota gun deer hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter). You must remove all stands on the remainder of the refuge within 7 days of the closure of archery season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.


(vii) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot and buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.


(viii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we allow only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) on the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.


(ix) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during specified periods for archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.


(xi) During the quota turkey hunts, only hunters possessing a valid quota turkey hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) will be allowed to enter the open hunt units and only for the purposes of turkey hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(ii), (xi), (xv) through (xvii), and (a)(3)(viii) and (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) We allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.


(iv) You may enter the refuge to fish, frog, or crawfish beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit by 1 hour after legal sunset.


(v) We prohibit tournament fishing on the refuge.


(b) *Big Lake National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, quail, raccoon, nutria, coyote, beaver, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.


(ii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry.


(iii) We allow incidental take of nutria, beaver, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(iv) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(v) We allow the use of dogs only for squirrel, rabbit, and quail hunting in the refuge area north of Timm's Point.


(vi) Hunters may only use shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle.


(vii) We prohibit hunting from mowed and/or gravel road rights-of-way.


(viii) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 1 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow hunting of raccoon and opossum at night (from 30 minutes after legal sunset to 30 minutes before legal sunrise) on the refuge.


(ix) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.


(x) From November 1 to February 28, we close all waterfowl sanctuaries to all hunting and public entry.


(xi) Hunters and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, bicycles, e-bikes, or boats overnight on the refuge.


(xii) We only allow use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) by hunters with mobility-impairments, and the refuge manager must authorize this use in writing.


(xiii) Hunters and anglers may use motor vehicles, bicycles, and e-bikes only on public use roads not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.


(xiv) From November 1 through February 28, boat access is restricted to launching at Seven Mile boat ramp and using Ditch 28 only.


(xv) We prohibit the use of personal watercraft (*e.g.,* jet skis), airboats, and hovercraft for hunting and fishing on the refuge.


(xvi) We prohibit hunting from a vehicle.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and incidental take of feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii), and (vii) through (xvi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery/crossbow, modern gun, and muzzleloader deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iii) Modern gun deer hunters may only use shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths greater than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle.


(iv) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season and must remove them 7 days after the closure of archery season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.


(vi) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during a specified period during archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(vii) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot or buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.


(viii) Turkey hunting is conducted according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(ix) During the quota gun deer hunts, only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer permit (FWS Form 3-2439) may use the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.


(x) During the quota gun turkey hunts, we close the refuge Wildlife Auto Drive Road to other hunting and public entry, and only hunters possessing a valid quota gun turkey permit (FWS Form 3-2439) may use that area of the refuge and only for the purposes of turkey hunting.


(xi) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(2)(ii), (x), (xi), (xii) through (xv), and (b)(3)(ix) and (x) of this section apply.


(ii) Anglers may launch boats only in designated areas.


(iii) We allow frogging and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.


(iv) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(v) We allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on all refuge waters from March 1 through October 31.


(vi) We allow fishing in the Sand Slough-Mud Slough area from November 1 through February 28 only with the use of nonmotorized boats and electric trolling motors; anglers may enter this area at 4 a.m. and must depart by 1 hour after legal sunset.


(vii) We prohibit climbing onto or fishing from any water control structure and associated wingwalls and fences, or the top of the Floodway Dam south of Highway 18.


(viii) We prohibit tournament fishing on the refuge.


(c) *Cache River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, merganser, snipe, woodcock, rail, gallinule, crow, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. Except when hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge by 1 p.m. All other hunters, including those hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon), except that during the State Conservation Order, you may hunt for applicable goose species until legal sunset.


(iv) You must remove decoys, blinds, boats, and all other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) From March 1 through October 31, hunters and anglers may leave boats displaying valid registration on the refuge.


(vi) During the regular State waterfowl hunting season, we prohibit the use of boats on the refuge from 12 a.m. (midnight) to 4 a.m.


(vii) We allow the use of dogs when migratory game bird hunting.


(viii) We allow waterfowl hunting on flooded refuge roads.


(ix) During the quota gun deer hunt, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry, unless the refuge is closed to deer hunting at that time due to implementation of State flood closure zone regulations.


(x) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for migratory bird and upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.


(xi) We allow incidental take of beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State season and regulations.


(xii) From November 15 to February 28, we close all waterfowl sanctuaries to all hunting and public entry.


(xiii) We allow only hunters to use all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and only from September 1 through March 31, except that during the State Conservation Order, hunters may use ATVs for hunting applicable goose species.


(xiv) Hunters and anglers may not operate conventional motor vehicles, ATVs, bicycles, or e-bikes on any road or trail closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.


(xv) Hunter and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, ATVs, bicycles, or e-bikes unattended overnight on the refuge.


(xvi) We prohibit the use of personal watercraft (*e.g.,* jet skis), airboats, and hovercraft for hunting and fishing on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, quail, raccoon, opossum, beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (v), (vi), and (ix) through (xvi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting upland game.


(iv) We prohibit hunting from mowed and/or graveled road rights-of-way.


(v) Hunters may use only shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle.


(vi) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 1 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow hunting of raccoon and opossum at night (from 30 minutes after legal sunset to 30 minutes before legal sunrise) on the refuge.


(vii) We prohibit hunting from a vehicle.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (v), (vi), and (ix) through (xvi), and (c)(2)(iv), (vi) and (vii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery/crossbow, modern gun, and muzzleloader deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iii) Hunters may take only feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during a specified period during archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iv) Hunters may only use shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths greater than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle for modern gun deer hunting on the Dixie, Dixie Waterfowl Sanctuary, and Plunkett Farm Waterfowl Sanctuary Hunt Units.


(v) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season, and you must remove them from the waterfowl sanctuaries prior to November 15, and from the rest of the refuge within 7 days of the closure of archery season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.


(vii) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot and buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.


(viii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we allow only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) on the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.


(ix) Turkey hunting will be conducted in designated areas according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(v), (vi), (ix), (xii), (xiv) through (xvi), and (c)(3)(viii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) We allow frogging and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.


(iv) We prohibit tournament fishing on the refuge.


(d) *Dale Bumpers White River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl (duck, goose, merganser, and coot), dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require an annual public use permit (FWS Form 3-2439) to hunt, fish, launch boats, and utilize campgrounds.


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting from legal shooting hours until 12 p.m. (noon).


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when migratory game bird hunting.


(iv) We allow woodcock hunting beginning December 1 until the end of the State woodcock season on the North Unit following State legal shooting hours and bag limit.


(v) We prohibit goose hunting outside the State duck season.


(vi) We allow dove hunting only during the Statewide season in September and October, as specified in the refuge public use brochure.


(vii) You must remove blinds, blind material, and decoys from the refuge by 1 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(viii) Waterfowl hunters may enter the North Unit, Jack's Bay Hunt Area, and Levee Hunt Area no earlier than 4 a.m. on days hunting is allowed, as identified in the refuge public use brochure.


(ix) We prohibit boating from November 1 to March 1 in the South Unit Waterfowl Hunt Areas, except from 4 a.m. to 1 p.m. on designated waterfowl hunt days.


(x) We allow waterfowl hunting on outlying tracts; the conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(ii), (vii), and (viii) of this section apply.


(xi) We only allow all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) for wildlife-dependent hunting and fishing activities. We prohibit the use of ATVs after December 15 each year in designated South Unit areas as shown in the refuge public use brochure.


(xii) We allow incidental take of beaver, coyote, and nutria during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(xiii) During refuge-wide quota muzzleloader and quota gun deer hunts, we close the refuge to all non-quota hunting.


(xiv) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and all furbearers (as governed by State law), and the incidental take of beaver, coyote, and nutria, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i), and (xi) through (xiv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting of rabbit and squirrel on the North Unit from September 1 through January 31.


(iii) On the North Unit only, we allow the use of dogs when hunting rabbit and squirrel from December 1 through January 31.


(iv) We allow rabbit and squirrel hunting on the South Unit from September 1 through November 30.


(v) We allow furbearer hunting. The annual public use brochure provides season dates and methods.


(vi) We allow the use of dogs for hunting furbearers from legal sunset to legal sunrise. Hunters must tether or pen all dogs used for furbearer hunting from legal sunrise to legal sunset and at any time they are not involved in actual hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ix), and (xi) through (xiii) of this section apply.


(ii) Archery deer seasons on the North Unit are from October 1 through January 31, except during quota muzzleloader and quota gun deer hunts, when the archery season is closed.


(iii) Archery deer seasons on the South Unit are from October 1 through December 31, except during quota muzzleloader and quota gun deer hunts, when the archery season is closed.


(iv) Muzzleloader season for deer will begin in October and will continue for a period of up to 3 days of quota hunting in the North and South Units, and no more than 4 days of non-quota hunting in the North Unit.


(v) The gun deer hunt will begin in November and will continue for a period of no more than 3 days of quota hunting in the North and South Units, and no more than 2 days of non-quota hunting in the North Unit.


(vi) We restrict hunt participants for quota hunts to those drawn for a quota permit (FWS Form 3-2439). The permits are nontransferable and nonrefundable.


(vii) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to deer season dates identified in the refuge public use brochure.


(viii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(ix) We prohibit firearm deer hunting from or across roads, ATV trails, levees, and maintained utility rights-of-way.


(x) You may only use portable deer stands and ground blinds. You may erect stands or blinds up to 7 days before each hunt, but you must remove them within 7 days after each hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter). All unattended deer stands and blinds on the refuge must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly displayed.


(xi) We close the Kansas Lake Area to all entry on December 1 and reopen it on March 1.


(xii) We prohibit the possession of buckshot on the refuge.


(xiii) An adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license must accompany and be within sight and normal voice contact of hunters age 15 and younger. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.


(xiv) The annual refuge public use brochure provides season dates and methods for turkey hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ix) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow sport fishing in refuge-owned waters as follows:


(A) We allow fishing year-round in:


(*1*) Big Island Chute, LaGrue, Essex, Prairie, Scrubgrass, and Brooks Bayous;


(*2*) Moon and Belknap Lakes next to Arkansas Highway 1;


(*3*) Indian Bay;


(*4*) Arkansas Post Canal and adjacent drainage ditches;


(*5*) Borrow ditches located adjacent to the west bank of that portion of the White River Levee north of the Graham Burke pumping station; and


(*6*) All waters in the refuge-owned North Unit and scattered tracts.


(B) We open all other South Unit refuge waters to sport fishing from March 1 through November 30, unless posted otherwise.


(iii) We allow frogging on all refuge-owned waters open for sport fishing as follows:


(A) We allow frogging on the South Unit from the beginning of the State season through November 30.


(B) We allow frogging on the North Unit for the entire State season.


(iv) We prohibit all commercial and recreational harvest of turtle on all property administered by Dale Bumpers White River National Wildlife Refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(v) We prohibit take or possession of any freshwater mussel (see § 27.21 of this chapter), and we prohibit the shelling of mussels on the refuge.


(vi) Boats (16 feet or less) displaying valid registration or Arkansas Game and Fish Commission's license customer identification number may be left on the refuge from March 1 through October 31.


(e) *Felsenthal National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of American woodcock, duck, light and dark goose, merganser, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters and anglers must possess and carry a signed refuge public use brochure while hunting or fishing.


(ii) Waterfowl hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon).


(iii) Hunters must remove decoys, blinds, boats, and all other equipment by 1 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We close areas of the refuge posted with “Area Closed” signs and identify them on the refuge public use brochure map as a waterfowl sanctuary. We close waterfowl sanctuaries to all public entry and public use from November 15 to February 15.


(v) We allow hunting of duck, light and dark goose, merganser, and coot during the State waterfowl season except during scheduled refuge quota gun deer hunts.


(vi) We allow American woodcock hunting during the State season except during scheduled refuge quota hunts. Woodcock hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit by 1 hour after legal sunset.


(vii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.


(viii) We allow only all-terrain vehicles/utility-type vehicles (ATVs/UTVs) for hunting and fishing activities according to regulations provided in the refuge public use brochure.


(ix) You may use bikes, horses, and mules on roads and ATV/UTV trails (when open to motor vehicle and ATV/UTV traffic, respectively) as a mode of transportation for hunting and fishing activities on the refuge except during the quota deer hunts.


(x) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of roads, pipelines, and trails open to motor vehicle use (including ATV/UTV trails).


(xi) We allow the incidental take of beaver, nutria, and coyote during any daytime refuge hunt with weapons and ammunition allowed for that hunt. There is no bag limit.


(xii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum (as governed by State law), and incidental take of beaver, nutria, and coyote, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (iv), and (vii) through (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting for quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum on the refuge during State seasons through January 31. We close upland game hunting during refuge quota gun deer hunts.


(iii) We do not open for the spring squirrel hunting season, or for the summer/early fall raccoon hunting season.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs for squirrel and rabbit hunting from December 1 through January 31, and for quail and raccoon/opossum hunting during the open season on the refuge for these species.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (iv), and (viii) through (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery deer hunting on the refuge from the opening of the State season through January 31, except during refuge deer quota hunts.


(iii) We allow muzzleloader and modern gun deer hunting during designated times and seasons, within specified State seasons as listed in the refuge public use brochure.


(iv) Total deer harvested refuge-wide is two deer (two does, or one buck and one doe, as governed by State law) regardless of method. A doe must be harvested before a buck.


(v) We prohibit buckshot for modern gun deer hunting.


(vi) You may only use portable deer stands erected no earlier than the opening day of archery season, and you must remove them no later than January 31 each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vii) We prohibit the use of deer decoy(s).


(viii) Turkey hunting (Archery, Youth, and Quota) will be conducted during designated times and seasons, within specified State seasons as listed in the refuge public use brochure.


(ix) We restrict quota hunt participants to those selected for a quota permit (FWS Form 3-2439), except that one nonhunting adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license must accompany the youth hunter age 15 and younger.


(x) An adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license must accompany and be within sight and normal voice contact of hunters age 15 and younger. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.


(xi) We allow the use of one tree stand or ground blind, and one game camera, on the refuge if the owner's State hunting license number is clearly written on them in a conspicuous location.


(xii) We restrict hunt participants for quota hunts to those drawn for a quota permit (FWS Form 3-2439). These permits are nontransferable, and the permit fees are nonrefundable.


(xiii) The incidental taking of feral hogs will be governed by Arkansas Game and Fish Commission regulations concerning the taking of feral hogs on State Wildlife Management Areas (WMAs). Subject to State regulations, we allow incidental take of feral hogs during daytime refuge deer quota hunts (without the use of dogs) and during a specified period during archery deer hunting with legal hunting equipment and ammunition allowed for those hunts according to the season dates provided in the refuge public use brochure. There is no bag limit.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (viii), and (ix) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit fishing in the waterfowl sanctuary area when the sanctuary is closed, with the exception of the main channel of the Ouachita and Saline Rivers and the borrow pits along Highway 82. We post the waterfowl sanctuary area with “Area Closed” signs and identify those areas in refuge hunt brochures.


(iii) During the refuge quota gun deer hunts, we allow fishing only in areas accessible from the Ouachita and Saline Rivers and from Eagle, Jones, and Pereogeethe Lakes.


(iv) You must move or remove trotlines when receding water levels expose them.


(v) We allow frogging and crawfishing for personal use only during designated times and seasons, within specified State seasons as listed in the refuge public use brochure.


(vi) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(f) *Holla Bend National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, quail, raccoon, opossum, beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, fox, striped skunk, coyote, and bobcat on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.


(ii) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iii) We only allow use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) by hunters and anglers with mobility impairments, and the refuge manager must authorize this use in writing.


(iv) Hunters and anglers may use boats in designated areas and at times provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(v) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.


(vi) During the quota youth gun deer and turkey hunts, we close the refuge to all other hunting and public entry.


(vii) We allow incidental take of beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(viii) Hunters and anglers may use bicycles and e-bikes only on public use roads and designated trails not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.


(ix) During the mentored youth squirrel and rabbit hunts, the mentoring adult may supervise up to two hunting youths. Youth hunters may only use shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle. We prohibit adults from hunting during mentored hunts.


(x) Hunters must enter and exit the refuge from designated roads and parking lots only.


(xi) We limit raccoon and opossum hunting to nighttime hunting only.


(xii) Hunter and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, bicycles, e-bikes, or boats unattended overnight on the refuge.


(xiii) We prohibit hunting from a vehicle.


(xiv) We prohibit the use of personal watercraft (*e.g.,* jet skis), airboats, and hovercraft for hunting and fishing on the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, black bear, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(2)(i), (iii) through (viii), (x), and (xii) through (xiv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery/crossbow hunting for white-tailed deer and turkey according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(iii) Youth modern gun deer hunts will be conducted according to season dates and bag limits provided in the refuge public use brochure.


(iv) We allow the take of black bear incidental to refuge archery and modern gun deer hunts subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(v) The refuge will conduct youth-only quota spring gun turkey hunts according to season dates and bag limits provided in the refuge public use brochure.


(vi) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days before the start of the season, and you must remove them from the refuge within 7 days after the season ends (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vii) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.


(viii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(ix) You must check all harvested turkey, bear, and deer at the refuge check station.


(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.


(xi) Big game hunters may enter the refuge 1 hour before legal sunrise and must exit by 1 hour after legal sunset.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(2)(iii), (iv), (vi), (viii), (xii), and (xiv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on all waters only from March 1 through October 31 from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iii) Anglers must remove boats from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(v) We allow frogging and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.


(vi) We prohibit access to refuge waters and land from the Arkansas River.


(vii) We limit trotlines, setline, limblines, yo-yo and free-floating fishing devices to 20 per person; any line that extends into the water must be cotton.


(viii) Trotlines, setlines, limblines, yo-yos, and free-floating fishing devices must be clearly labelled with the angler's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number, and cannot be left overnight or unattended.


(g) *Overflow National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) (1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of American woodcock, duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a refuge public use regulations brochure/access permit (signed brochure) while hunting.


(ii) Hunting of duck, goose, and coot ends at 12 p.m. (noon) each day.


(iii) We allow only portable blinds. Hunters must remove portable blinds, boats, and decoys from the hunt area by 1:30 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow only all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)/utility-type vehicles (UTVs) for hunting activities.


(v) You may use horses on roads and ATV/UTV trails (when open to motor vehicle and ATV/UTV traffic, respectively) as a mode of transportation for hunting activities on the refuge.


(vi) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of roads and trails open to motor vehicle use (including ATV/UTV trails).


(vii) You may take beaver, nutria, and coyote during any daytime refuge hunt with weapons and ammunition legal for that hunt. There is no bag limit. We prohibit transportation or possession of live hog.


(viii) We allow boats on the refuge between the hours of 4 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. during waterfowl season.


(ix) Hunters may not enter the refuge until 4 a.m., with the exception of designated parking areas.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, and furbearers (as governed by State law) on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(iv) through (vii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting during State seasons for quail, squirrel, rabbit, and furbearers (as governed by State law) through January 31. State regulations governing appropriate zones apply.


(iii) We do not open for the spring squirrel hunting season or the summer/fall raccoon hunting season.


(iv) When upland game hunting, we prohibit possession of lead ammunition except that you may possess rimfire rifle lead ammunition no larger than .22 caliber.


(v) We allow the use of dogs for squirrel and rabbit hunting from December 1 through January 31, and for quail and raccoon/opossum hunting during the open season on the refuge for these species.


(vi) We allow nighttime raccoon and opossum hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(iv) through (vii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow muzzleloader deer hunting during the first State muzzleloader season for this zone. State regulations governing appropriate zones apply.


(iii) We prohibit buckshot for gun deer hunting.


(iv) The bag limit for the muzzleloader deer hunt is two deer, with no more than one buck.


(v) You may only use portable deer stands erected no earlier than the opening day of archery season, and you must remove them no later than January 31 each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter). The limit is one deer stand, blind, etc., per person.


(vi) We prohibit the use of deer decoy(s).


(vii) We restrict quota hunt participants on these hunts to those selected for a quota permit (electronic form), except that one nonhunting adult age 21 or older and possessing a valid hunting license must accompany a youth hunter age 15 or younger.


(viii) The incidental taking of feral hogs will be governed by Arkansas Game and Fish Commission regulations concerning the taking of feral hogs on State Wildlife Management Areas (WMAs). Subject to State regulations, we allow incidental take of feral hogs on State WMAs during daytime refuge hunts (without the use of dogs) with legal hunting equipment and ammunition allowed for that hunt. There is no bag limit. We prohibit transport or possession of live hogs.


(4) [Reserved]


(h) *Pond Creek National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, coot, and goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We close migratory game bird hunting during scheduled quota refuge gun deer hunts.


(ii) Hunting ends at 12 p.m. (noon) each day.


(iii) We allow only portable blinds. You must remove portable blinds, boats, and decoys from the hunt area by 1:30 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) You must possess and carry a refuge public use regulations brochure/access permit (signed brochure) while hunting.


(v) We allow only all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)/utility-type vehicles (UTVs) for hunting and fishing activities.


(vi) You may use horses and mules only on roads and ATV/UTV trails (when open to motor vehicle and ATV/UTV traffic, respectively) as a mode of transportation for on-refuge hunting and fishing activities, except during refuge muzzleloader and quota deer hunts.


(vii) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of roads and trails open to motor vehicle use (including ATV/UTV trails).


(viii) You may take beaver, nutria, and coyote during any daytime refuge hunt with weapons and ammunition allowed for that hunt. We prohibit the use of dogs to take these species. There is no bag limit.


(ix) We allow the use of dogs when waterfowl hunting.


(x) We authorize the use of tree stands, game cameras, and boats while hunting and fishing on the refuge. The owner's Arkansas Game and Fish customer identification number must be affixed to, or clearly written on, them in a conspicuous manner.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and furbearers (as governed by State law) on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting on the refuge during State seasons for this zone for squirrel, rabbit, and furbearers through January 31. We list specific hunting season dates annually in the refuge hunt brochure. We close upland game hunting during refuge quota deer hunts.


(ii) We do not open to spring squirrel hunting season, or summer/early fall raccoon hunting season.


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(iv) through (viii) of this section apply.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum hunting from the opening of hunting season through January 31.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow archery deer hunting on the refuge from the opening of the State season through January 31. State regulations governing appropriate zones apply.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(iv) through (viii) of this section apply.


(iii) We close archery deer hunting during the quota gun deer hunts.


(iv) We allow muzzleloader deer hunting for the first 5 days of the early State muzzleloader season for this deer management zone. The bag limit for the refuge muzzleloader hunt is two deer, with no more than one buck.


(v) We prohibit buckshot for gun deer hunting.


(vi) We restrict hunt participants for quota hunts to those drawn for a quota permit. These permits are nontransferable, and permit fees are nonrefundable.


(vii) The quota gun deer hunt bag limit is two deer, with no more than one buck (one buck and one doe). Exception: Youth hunters participating in the refuge youth deer hunt and hunters participating in the refuge mobility-impaired hunt may harvest the legal State bag limit without antler restrictions.


(viii) We do not open for fall archery turkey season.


(ix) We close spring archery turkey hunting during scheduled turkey quota permit gun hunts.


(x) You may use only portable deer stands erected no sooner than 2 days before the opening of the State deer season, and you must remove them no later than January 31 each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(xi) We prohibit the use of deer decoy(s).


(xii) We restrict hunt participants during quota hunts to those selected for a quota permit, except that one nonhunting adult age 21 or older and possessing a valid hunting license must accompany a youth hunter.


(xiii) We allow tree stands, ground blinds, boats, or game cameras on the refuge only if the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish customer identification number is affixed to, or clearly written on, them in a conspicuous location.


(xiv) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(xv) We prohibit all public use, except fishing and access for fishing, during quota hunts.


(xvi) We allow the taking of feral hogs on the refuge only during the muzzleloader and modern gun quota permit deer hunts and with weapons and ammunition allowed for that hunt. There is no bag limit. You may not transport or possess live hogs.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing, frogging, and the taking of crawfish on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must reset trotlines when exposed by receding water levels.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(iv) through (viii) and (x) of this section apply.


(iii) We prohibit taking or possessing turtles or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(i) *Wapanocca National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, nutria, beaver, coyote, quail, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow hunting of raccoon and opossum at night on the refuge.


(iii) During the quota gun hunts, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry.


(iv) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(v) We allow the incidental take of nutria, beaver, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons allowed for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(vi) Hunters may use only shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle.


(vii) We prohibit hunting from mowed and/or gravel road rights-of-way.


(viii) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.


(ix) From December 1 to February 28, we close all waterfowl sanctuaries (including Wapanocca Lake) to all hunting and public entry.


(x) We prohibit the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), except that ATVs may be used by mobility-impaired hunters possessing written authorization issued by the refuge manager.


(xi) Hunters and anglers may use motor vehicles, bicycles, and e-bikes only on public use roads not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.


(xii) Hunters and anglers must use the public boat ramp on Highway 77 to launch motorized boats into Wapanocca Lake.


(xiii) Hunters and anglers must operate boats at speeds of less than 5 miles per hour between the Highway 77 boat launch and the open lake.


(xiv) We prohibit the use of personal watercraft (*e.g.,* jet skis), airboats, and hovercraft for hunting and fishing on the refuge.


(xv) Hunter and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, bicycles, e-bikes, or boats unattended overnight on the refuge.


(xvi) We prohibit hunting from a vehicle.


(xvii) The Round Pond and Pygmon Units in St. Francis County are subject to all regulations for hunting and fishing for Wapanocca NWR.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii), (v), and (vii) through (xvii) of this section apply.


(ii) During the quota gun deer hunts, we allow only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) on the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.


(iii) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season, and you must remove them from the waterfowl sanctuaries by December 1 (see § 27.93 of this chapter). You must remove all stands and blinds on the remainder of the refuge within 7 days of the closure of archery season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow portable tree stands, blinds, and game cameras on the refuge only if the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number is clearly written on them in a conspicuous location.


(v) We allow archery/crossbow, muzzleloader, and modern gun deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(vi) Hunters may only use shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths longer than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle for modern gun deer hunting.


(vii) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during a specified period during archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.


(viii) The annual refuge public use brochure provides season dates and bag limits for turkey hunting.


(ix) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot or buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.


(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(2)(iii), (ix), (x) through (xv), and (xvii), and (i)(3)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) From March 1 through November 30, we allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on all refuge waters. From December 1 through February 28, we allow bank fishing only on Woody Pond and other non-waterfowl sanctuary areas.


(iii) Anglers, including those frogging and crawfishing, may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iv) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(v) Anglers may launch boats only in designated areas.


(vi) We allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.


(vii) We prohibit tournament fishing.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54105, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48850, Aug. 31, 2021]








