# ยง 19.48   Suspension or revocation of the privilege of operating a container station; hearings.

(a) *Grounds for suspension or revocation.* The port director may revoke or suspend the privilege of operating a container station if:


(1) The privilege was obtained through fraud or the misstatement of a material fact;


(2) The container station operator refuses or neglects to obey any proper order of a Customs officer or any Customs order, rule, or regulation relative to the operation of a container station;


(3) The container station operator or an officer of a corporation which has been granted the privilege of operating a container station is convicted of or has committed acts which would constitute a felony, or a misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or a theft-connected crime. Any change in the employment status of the corporate officer (e.g., discharge, resignation, demotion, or promotion) prior to conviction of a felony or prior to conviction of a misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or a theft-connected crime, resulting from acts committed while a corporate officer, will not preclude application of this provision;


(4) The container station operator fails to retain merchandise which has been designated for examination;


(5) The container station operator does not provide secure facilities or properly safeguard merchandise within the container station;


(6) The container station operator fails to furnish a current list of names, addresses, and other information required by ยง 19.46; or


(7) The bond required by ยง 19.40 is determined to be insufficient in amount or lacking sufficient sureties, and a satisfactory new bond with good and sufficient sureties is not furnished within a reasonable time.


(b) *Notice and appeal.* The port director shall suspend or revoke the privilege of operating a container station by serving notice of the proposed action in writing upon the container station operator. The notice shall be in the form of a statement specifically setting forth the grounds for revocation or suspension of the privilege and shall be final and conclusive upon the container station operator unless he shall file with the port director a written notice of appeal. The container station operator may file a written notice of appeal from the revocation or suspension within 10 days following receipt of the notice of revocation or suspension. The notice of appeal shall be filed in duplicate and shall set forth the response of the container station operator to the statement of the port director. The container station operator, in his notice of appeal, may request a hearing.


(c) *Hearing on appeal.* If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee within 30 days following application therefor. The container station operator shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 days prior thereto. The container station operator may be represented by counsel at the revocation or suspension hearing. All testimony in the proceeding shall be subject to cross-examination. A stenographic record of any such proceeding shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the container station operator. At the conclusion of such proceeding or review of a written appeal, the hearing officer or the port director, as the case may be, shall forthwith transmit all papers and the stenographic record of any hearing, to the Commissioner of Customs, together with his recommendation for final action. Following a hearing and within 10 calendar days after delivery of a copy of the stenographic record, the container station operator may submit to the Commissioner of Customs, in writing, additional views and arguments on the basis of such record. If neither the container station operator nor his attorney appear for a scheduled hearing, the hearing officer shall conclude the hearing and transmit all papers with his recommendation to the Commissioner of Customs. The Commissioner shall thereafter render his decision, in writing, stating his reasons therefor, with respect to the action proposed by the hearing officer or the port director. Such decision shall be transmitted to the port director and served by him on the container station operator.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-286, 38 FR 28289, Oct. 12, 1973, as amended by T.D. 88-63, 53 FR 40219, Oct. 14, 1988]




