# ยง 1.2115   Public notice of incentive auction related procedures.

The provisions of this subpart may be used to conduct an incentive auction pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(G), including either or both a reverse auction to determine the incentive payment a licensee would be willing to accept in exchange for relinquishing spectrum usage rights and a forward auction to assign flexible use licenses for any spectrum made available as the result of such relinquishments. The Commission shall provide public notice of any procedures necessary for the implementation of an incentive auction that are not otherwise provided for pursuant to the rules of this Subpart. The Commission may do so in one or more such public notices. The Commission's procedures may include, without limitation:


(a) *Spectrum usage rights relinquishment procedures.* The procedures pursuant to which a licensee may make an unconditional, irrevocable offer to relinquish spectrum usage rights in exchange for an incentive payment, including any terms the offer must include and procedures pursuant to which the Commission may accept such an offer.


(b) *Information required from a licensee.* (1) The procedures for a licensee to provide any identifying information and or certifications that the Commission may require from any licensee that seeks to relinquish spectrum usage rights in the incentive auction.


(2) The procedures for a licensee that is relinquishing spectrum usage rights to provide any financial information that the Commission may require to facilitate the disbursement of any incentive payment.



---

[N] [84 FR 1630, Feb. 5, 2019]




