# § 93.55   Subdivision of Terminal Area.

The Anchorage, Alaska, Terminal Area is subdivided as follows:


(a) *International segment.* That area from the surface to and including 4,100 feet MSL, within a 5.2-mile radius of the Anchorage International ATCT; excluding that airspace east of the 350° bearing from the Anchorage International ATCT and north of the 090° bearing from the Anchorage International ATCT and east of a line bearing 180° and 360° from the intersection of the new Seward Highway and International Airport Road and the airspace extending upward from the surface to but not including 600 feet MSL, south of lat. 61°08′28″ N.


(b) *Merrill segment.* That area from the surface to and including 2,500 feet MSL, within a line beginning at Point Noname; thence direct to the mouth of Ship Creek; thence direct to the intersection of the Glenn Highway and Muldoon Road; thence south along Muldoon Road to Tudor Road; thence west along Tudor Road to the new Seward Highway; thence direct to West Anchorage High School; thence direct to Point MacKenzie; thence via the north bank of Knik Arm to the point of beginning.


(c) *Lake Hood segment.* That area from the surface to and including 2,500 feet MSL, within a line beginning at Point MacKenzie; thence direct to West Anchorage High School; thence direct to the intersection of Tudor Road and the new Seward Highway; thence south along the new Seward Highway to the 090° bearing from the Anchorage International ATCT; thence west direct to the Anchorage International ATCT; thence north along the 350° bearing from the Anchorage International ATCT to the north bank of Knik arm; thence via the north bank of Knik Arm to the point of beginning.


(d) *Elmendorf segment.* That area from the surface to and including 3,000 feet MSL, within a line beginning at Point Noname; thence via the north bank of Knik Arm to the intersection of the 4.7-mile radius of Elmendorf AFB; thence clockwise along the 4.7-mile radius of Elmendorf AFB to long. 149°46′44″ W.; thence south along long. 149°46′44″ W. to lat. 61°19′10″ N.; thence to lat. 61°17′58″ N., long. 149°44′08″ W.; thence to lat. 61°17′30″ N., long. 149°43′08″ W.; thence south along long. 149°43′08″ W. to the Glenn Highway; thence south and west along the Glenn Highway to Muldoon Road; thence direct to the mouth of Ship Creek; thence direct to the point of beginning.


(e) *Bryant segment.* That area from the surface to and including 2,000 feet MSL, within a line beginning at lat. 61°17′13″ N., long. 149°37′35″ W.; thence west along lat. 61°17′13″ N., to long. 149°43′08″ W.; thence south along long. 149°43′08″ W., to the Glenn Highway; thence north and east along the Glenn Highway to Ski Bowl Road; thence southeast along the Ski Bowl Road to a point one-half mile south of the Glenn Highway; thence north and east one-half mile south of and parallel to the Glenn Highway to its intersection with a line one-half mile east of and parallel to the Bryant Airport Runway 16/34 extended centerline; thence northeast along a line one-half mile east of and parallel to Bryant Airport runway 16/34 extended centerline to the point of beginning.


(f) *Seward Highway segment.* That area from the surface to and including 4,100 feet MSL, within a line beginning at the intersection of a line bearing 180° from the intersection of the new Seward Highway and International Airport Road, and O'Malley Road; thence east along O'Malley Road to its intersection with Lake Otis Park Way, lat. 61°07′23″ N., long 149°50′03″ W.; thence northerly along Lake Otis Park Way to its intersection with Abbott Road, lat. 61°08′14″ N., long. 149°50′03″ W.; thence east along Abbott Road to its intersection with Abbott Loop Road, lat. 61°08′14″ N., long. 149°48′16″ W.; thence due north to intersect with Tudor Road, lat. 61°10′51″ N., long. 149°48′16″ W.; thence west along Tudor Road to its intersection with the new Seward Highway, lat. 61°10′51″ N., long. 149°51′38″ W.; thence south along the new Seward Highway to its intersection with a line bearing 180° and 360° from the intersection of the new Seward Highway and International Airport Road; thence south to the point of beginning.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 29029, 64 FR 14976, Mar. 29, 1999; Amdt. 93-77, 64 FR 17439, Apr. 9, 1999]




