# ยง 800.117   Who shall perform original services.

(a) *General.* Original services shall be performed by the agency or field office assigned the area in which the service will be provided, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Exceptions for official agencies to provide service.* Under an exception, an official agency may provide service to an applicant outside of their geographic area. The Service may grant exceptions in instances when: the assigned official agency is unable to provide inspection services in a timely manner; a person requesting inspection services in that geographic area has not been receiving official inspection services from the official agency for that geographic area; a person requesting inspection services in that geographic area requests a probe inspection on a barge-lot basis; or, the assigned official agency for that geographic area agrees in writing with the adjacent official agency to waive the current geographic area restriction at the request of the applicant for service. Excluding requests for probe inspections on a barge-lot basis, applicants requesting an exception must submit requests for a service exception to the Service.


(1) *Timely service.* Service is not timely when an official agency cannot provide the requested official services within 6 hours or cannot provide the results and certificate in accordance with ยง 800.160(c). Timely service exception requests will also be considered for delays caused by weather events or for official services that the assigned official agency does not offer. The applicant must submit a request for a timely service exception to the Service. The applicant may make this request orally or in writing. If the applicant requests a timely service exception orally, the applicant must submit a written request to the Service within two business days of the request. The applicant must clearly state and support the identified reason for the requested timely service exception. There are three consecutive tiers of timely service exceptions: one-time, 90-day, and long-term. Applicants requesting 90-day or long-term timely service exceptions must progress through each previous tier sequentially. The Service will review timely service exception requests and may contact the applicant, the assigned official agency, or potential gaining official agency with questions during its review.


(i) *One-time.* In the case of an assigned official agency's inability to provide timely service, an applicant may be granted a one-time approval to use another official agency for the associated pending service request, as applicable.


(A) For one-time, timely service exception requests, if the request is made during customary business hours, the Service will provide its decision that day.


(B) If the applicant has an urgent timely service exception request, outside of the Service's customary business hours, an official agency from outside the geographic area may provide one-time service. When providing an urgent service, the gaining official agency must provide written notification to the Service within two business days after service.


(C) Upon returning to official office hours, the Service will review and verify the circumstances of the urgent request, as well as its consistency with the U.S. Grain Standards Act and implementing regulations.


(ii) *90-day.* If there is an occurrence of untimely service within 180 days of the date of the occurrence in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the applicant may request a 90-day timely service exception. This 90-day window will begin the day the exception is granted.


(iii) *Long-term.* If there is an occurrence of untimely service within 365 days after the applicant's return to service with the assigned official agency, following an exception granted under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the applicant may request a long-term timely service exception. When granting this exception, the Service may continue the exception up to the date on which the gaining official agency's designation terminates.


(iv) *Supporting documentation.* The applicant must submit a request for a timely service exception to the Service. This request may include any associated supporting documentation the applicant feels is warranted. After receipt of the request, the Service will provide the applicant, assigned official agency, and potential gaining official agency an opportunity to submit any additional information in support of the timely service exception request in writing. The Service will request additional information, if needed.


(v) *Review and verification.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, prior to granting a timely service exception, the Service must review and verify information submitted with the request. When a timely service exception request is received, the Service will issue a written notification to acknowledge the receipt of the request to the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the potential gaining official agency. When possible, the Service should also attempt to make oral contact.


(vi) *Timeline.* Once the applicant's request is received, the Service will notify the applicant and begin the review timeline. The Service will issue a determination within 15 business days for 90-day and long-term timely service exceptions, barring a challenge from the assigned official agency. While awaiting a final decision on 90-day and long-term timely service exceptions, the applicant may receive service from the potential gaining official agency.


(vii) *Notification.* The Service must notify the assigned official agency in writing upon receipt of the request for a timely service exception. At the completion of the request review process, the Service will issue written notification of the determination on the request to the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the gaining official agency. When possible, the Service should also attempt to make oral contact.


(viii) *Challenge.* The assigned official agency may challenge a request for a timely service exception for any reason. To challenge a request for a timely service exception, the assigned official agency must object, in writing, and submit the challenge and any supporting documents to the Service.


(A) Given the urgency of a one-time service request, if the assigned official agency wishes to challenge the request, it must be done in a manner which does not further delay the applicant from receiving the pending service. If the one-time timely service exception has already been granted or used, the assigned official agency may still challenge the Service's determination within 14 calendar days.


(B) To challenge a 90-day or long-term timely service exception, the assigned official agency must submit the challenge and any supporting documents within 14 calendar days of the date of notification of the timely service exception request. The documents must clearly identify the objection and support the identified reason for the challenge.


(ix) *Determination.* In the event the Service determines that the assigned official agency is unable to provide official services in a timely manner, the Service will grant a timely service exception.


(x) *False or misleading requests.* If an applicant submits a request for a timely service exception that the Service determines to be false or misleading, the Service will not grant the exception and may elect to limit the applicant from submitting further requests for a period of up to 180 days. If an urgent request for a timely service exception, outside of customary business hours, was granted on the basis of a false or misleading request, the Service may deny the applicant from future timely service exceptions for a period of up to 180 days.


(xi) *Return to the assigned official agency.* The applicant maintains the option of returning to the assigned official agency within 60 days of notification of termination of the timely service exception to all parties. The applicant must submit a written notification requesting to terminate the timely service exception to the Service, the assigned official agency and the gaining official agency. The timely service exception will be cancelled, and future timely service exception requests must be considered at the beginning of successive-tiered system.


(xii) *Termination.* If the Service determines the assigned official agency's inability to provide a specific service was limited due to weather events or for official services that the assigned official agency does (did) not offer, the cause of which has been resolved, the Service, in consultation with all the parties, may terminate the 90-day or long-term timely service exception. However, if the timely service exception was associated with the official agency's inability to provide service in 6 hours or less, or with its failure to issue the results and certificate in a timely manner, then the Service might elect not to terminate the timely service exception. The Service must notify the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the potential gaining official agency of all timely service exception termination decisions in writing. The assigned official agency must resume service within 60 days of notification.


(2) *Nonuse of service exception.* If an applicant has not received official inspection services from the assigned official agency within the last 90 days, the applicant may request, in writing, a nonuse of service exception. Periods of nonuse resulting from timely service exceptions will not qualify as part of a period of nonuse.


(i) *Supporting documentation.* Along with the request for an exception, the applicant must submit supporting documentation pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section and may submit any additional supporting material the applicant wishes to submit to the Service. After receipt of the request, the Service will provide the applicant, assigned official agency, and potential gaining official agency an opportunity to submit any additional information in writing. The Service will request additional information, if needed.


(A) *Required information.* The applicant's request for a nonuse of service exception must include the following information:


(*1*) The last date of service from the assigned official agency;


(*2*) The reason service has not been received during this time frame; and


(*3*) The identified reason for the request.


(B) *Additional relevant information.* Applicants may submit any additional relevant supporting information. This may include, but is not limited to:


(*1*) The location of the specified service need(s);


(*2*) The types of services requested by the applicant and offered by the assigned official agency;


(*3*) The ability of the assigned official agency to provide the requested service;


(*4*) Whether the applicant's facility has ever used the official system; and


(*5*) The impact on the applicant in the event it continues with the assigned official agency.


(ii) *Review and verification.* The Service will review the request for a nonuse of service exception and supporting documentation, then conduct any necessary analysis to estimate the exception's impact prior to making a determination, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section. When the Service receives a nonuse of service exception request, the Service will issue a written notification to acknowledge the receipt of the request to the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the potential gaining official agency.


(iii) *Timeline.* The Service will make every attempt to complete the determination process in a timely manner, during which the applicant must continue with nonuse of service. This time period will include the allotted 14 calendar days in which the assigned official agency may challenge the request. The Service may extend the determination timeline when necessary.


(iv) *Notification.* The Service must notify the assigned official agency in writing upon receipt of the request for a nonuse of service exception. At the completion of the process, the Service will issue written notification of the determination on the request to the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the gaining official agency. When possible, the Service should also attempt to make oral contact.


(v) *Challenge.* The assigned official agency may challenge a request for a nonuse of service exception for any reason. To challenge a nonuse of service exception, the assigned official agency must object in writing and must submit the challenge and any supporting documentation to the Service within 14 calendar days from the date of notification from the Service of receipt of the request for a nonuse of service exception for the applicant. The documents must clearly identify the objection and support the identified reason for the challenge.


(vi) *Determination.* The Service will consider impacts on the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the potential gaining official agency when deciding whether to grant a nonuse of service exception. These impacts may include, but are not limited to, the viability of the assigned official agency given the loss of business. The Service will also consider the impact on the official system and confirm a nonuse of service exception will not undermine the congressional policies in section 2 of the United States Grain Standards Act. The Service will provide its decision, in writing, to the applicant, the assigned official agency, and the potential gaining official agency. If approved, the applicant can receive service from either the originally assigned official agency or the gaining official agency.


(vii) *False or misleading requests.* If an applicant submits a request that the Service determines is false or misleading, the Service will not grant the nonuse of service exception and may elect to limit the applicant from submitting further requests for a period of up to 180 days.


(viii) *Renewal or termination of exception.* The nonuse of service exception is for the period of the gaining official agency's designation. At the end of the designation, the Service will review the nonuse if service exception and verify the information. Unless the applicant, the assigned official agency, the gaining official agency, and the Service all agree to terminate the nonuse of service exception, the Service will renew the nonuse of service exception for the gaining official agency's new designation period. In the event the gaining official agency is no longer designated, the nonuse of service exception will automatically terminate, and the applicant will return to the assigned official agency. If the applicant transfers ownership of its facility, the nonuse of service exception will automatically terminate, and the new applicant/owner of the facility must request a new nonuse of service exception to receive service from an official agency other than the assigned official agency for that geographic area. At any point in the designation cycle, if the applicant, the assigned official agency, the gaining official agency, and FGIS jointly agree to terminate nonuse of service exception in writing, the Service will terminate the exception. In this case, the assigned official agency must resume service within 60 days of notification that the nonuse of service exception has been terminated.


(ix) *Historic exceptions.* All nonuse of service exceptions that were in place as of March 30, 2019, and that are currently active as of the date of effectuation of this rule, are incorporated within the list of active nonuse of service exceptions.


(3) *Barge probe service.* Any official agency may provide probe sampling and inspection service for barge-lots of grain with no restrictions due to geographical locations. 


(4) *Written agreement.* If the assigned official agency agrees in writing with the adjacent official agency to waive the current geographic area restriction at the request of the applicant for service, the adjacent official agency may provide service at a particular location upon providing written notice to the Service, and the Service determines that the written agreement conforms to the provisions in the Act.


(c) *Interim service at other than export port locations.* If the assigned official agency is not available on a regular basis to provide original services, and no official agency within a reasonable proximity is willing to provide such services on an interim basis, the services shall be provided by authorized employees of the Secretary, or other persons licensed by the Secretary, until the services can be provided on a regular basis by an official agency, as provided in ยง 800.196.



---

[N] [68 FR 19139, Apr. 18, 2003, as amended at 81 FR 49862, July 29, 2016; 88 FR 27690, May 3, 2023]




