# ยง 5.9   Categories of documents.

Each document published in the _Federal Register_ shall be placed under one of the following categories, as indicated: 


(a) *The President.* This category contains each Executive order or Presidential proclamation and each other Presidential document that the President submits for publication or orders to be published.


(b) *Rules and regulations.* This category contains each document having general applicability and legal effect, except those covered by paragraph (a) of this section. This category includes documents subject to codification, general policy statements concerning regulations, interpretations of agency regulations, statements of organization and function, and documents that affect other documents previously published in the rules and regulations section.


(c) *Proposed rules.* This category contains each notice of proposed rulemaking submitted pursuant to section 553 of title 5, United States Code, or any other law, which if promulgated as a rule, would have general applicability and legal effect. This category includes documents that suggest changes to regulations in the Code of Federal Regulations, begin a rulemaking proceeding, and affect or relate to other documents previously published in the proposed rules section.


(d) *Notices.* This category contains miscellaneous documents applicable to the public and not covered by paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. This category includes announcements of meetings and other information of public interest.



---

[N] [37 FR 23604, Nov. 4, 1972, as amended at 54 FR 9676, Mar. 7, 1989]




