# § 1275.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *24-7 sobriety program* has the meaning given the term in § 1300.23(b) of this title.


(b) *Alcohol concentration* means grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.


(c) *Driving while intoxicated* means driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration above the permitted limit as established by each State, or an equivalent non-BAC intoxicated driving offense.


(d) *Driving under the influence* has the same meaning as “driving while intoxicated.”


(e) *FHWA* means the Federal Highway Administration.


(f) *Ignition interlock system* means a State-certified system designed to prevent drivers from starting their car when their breath alcohol concentration is at or above a preset level.


(g) *Imprisonment* means confinement in a jail, minimum security facility, community corrections facility, house arrest with electronic monitoring, inpatient rehabilitation or treatment center, or other facility, provided the individual under confinement is in fact being detained.


(h) *Mandatory sentence* means a sentence that cannot be waived, suspended, or otherwise reduced by the State.


(i) *Motor vehicle* means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a vehicle operated solely on a rail line or a commercial vehicle.


(j) *NHTSA* means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


(k) *Repeat intoxicated driver* means a person who has been convicted of driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence of alcohol more than once in any five-year period.


(l) *Repeat intoxicated driver law* means a State law or combination of laws or programs that impose the minimum penalties specified in § 1275.4 for all repeat intoxicated drivers.


(m) *State* means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.




