# ยง 1263.1   Scope, purpose, effective date, and exemption.

(a) *Scope and purpose.* As required by Reese's Law (15 U.S.C 2056e, Pub. L. 117-171), this part establishes performance and labeling requirements for consumer products containing button cell or coin batteries to prevent child access to batteries during reasonably foreseeable use and misuse of the consumer product. The part is intended to eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury and death to children 6 years old and younger from ingesting these batteries. This part also establishes warning label requirements for packaging of consumer products containing button cell or coin batteries, these consumer products, and instructions and manuals accompanying these consumer products. Additionally, this part establishes warning label requirements for packaging of button cell or coin batteries, including button cell or coin batteries packaged separately with a consumer product.






(b) *Effective date.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the effective date of ยง 1263.3 is October 23, 2023. Packages of button cell or coin batteries manufactured or imported after September 21, 2024, must meet the labeling requirements for battery packaging in ยง 1263.4.








(c) *Exemption for toy products.* Any object designed, manufactured, or marketed as a plaything for children under 14 years of age that is in compliance with the battery accessibility and labeling requirements of 16 CFR part 1250 is exempt from the requirements of this part.


(d) *Batteries that do not present an ingestion hazard.* Button cell or coin batteries that the Commission has determined do not present an ingestion hazard are not subject to this part. These are: zinc-air button cell or coin batteries.





---

[N] [88 FR 65295, Sept. 21, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 65303, Sept. 21, 2023]












