# ยง 704.19   Disclosure of executive compensation.

(a) *Annual disclosure.* A corporate credit union must annually prepare and maintain a disclosure of the dollar amount of compensation paid to its most highly compensated employees, including compensation from any CUSO in which the corporate credit union has invested or made a loan, in accordance with the following schedule:


(1) For corporate credit unions with forty-one or more full time employees, disclosure is required of the compensation paid to the five most highly compensated employees;


(2) For corporate credit unions with between thirty and forty-one full time employees, disclosure is required of the compensation paid to the four most highly compensated employees;


(3) For corporate credit unions with thirty or fewer full time employees, disclosure is required of the compensation paid to the three most highly compensated employees; and


(4) In all cases, compensation paid to the corporate credit union's chief executive officer must also be disclosed, if the chief executive officer is not already included among the most highly compensated employees described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.


(b) *Availability of disclosure.* Any member may obtain a copy of the most current disclosure, and all disclosures for the previous three years, on request made in person or in writing. The corporate credit union must provide the disclosure(s), at no cost to the member, within five business days of receiving the request. In addition, the corporate must distribute the most current disclosure to all its members at least once a year, either in the annual report or in some other manner of the corporate's choosing.


(c) *Supplemental information.* In providing the disclosure required by this section, a corporate credit union may also provide supplementary information to put the disclosure in context, for example, salary surveys, a discussion of compensation in relation to other credit union expenses, or compensation information from similarly sized credit unions or financial institutions.


(d) *Special rule for mergers.* With respect to any merger involving a corporate credit union that would result in a material increase in compensation, *i.e.,* an increase of more than 15 percent or $10,000, whichever is greater, for any senior executive officer or director of the merging corporate, the corporate must:


(1) Describe the compensation arrangement in the merger plan documents submitted to NCUA for approval of the merger, pursuant to ยง 708b of this part; and


(2) In the case of any federally chartered corporate credit union, describe the compensation arrangement in the materials provided to the membership of the merging credit union before the member vote on approving the merger.



---

[N] [75 FR 64844, Oct. 20, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 23871, Apr. 29, 2011; 76 FR 79534, Dec. 22, 2011; 85 FR 62211, Oct. 2, 2020; 85 FR 71827, Nov. 12, 2020]




