# ยง 301.7803-3   Requests for referral to the Internal Revenue Service Independent Office of Appeals following the issuance of a notice of deficiency.

(a) *Notice and protest.* If any taxpayer requests consideration by the Internal Revenue Service Independent Office of Appeals (Appeals) of any matter or issue under section 7803(e)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) (relating to limitation on designation of cases as not eligible for referral to Appeals) and the request is denied, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (Commissioner) or the Commissioner's delegate must provide the taxpayer a written notice that provides a detailed description of the facts involved, the basis for the decision to deny the request, a detailed explanation of how the basis for the decision applies to such facts, and the procedures for protesting the decision to deny the request, but only if the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section are met:


(1) *Notice of deficiency.* The taxpayer received a notice of deficiency authorized under section 6212 of the Code (relating to notice of deficiency) before the taxpayer requested consideration by Appeals.


(2) *Frivolous positions.* The issue involved is not a frivolous position within the meaning of section 6702(c) of the Code (regarding listing of frivolous positions).


(3) *Multiple requests for referral to Appeals.* The taxpayer has not previously requested consideration by Appeals, pursuant to section 7803(e)(5), of the same matter or issue in a taxable year or period.


(4) *Previous Appeals consideration.* Appeals has not previously considered the matter or issue in a taxable year or period that is the subject of the request and determined that the matter or issue could not be settled or a settlement offer was rejected, except as provided in ยง 301.7803-2(f)(2) with respect to a taxpayer participating in an early consideration program.


(5) *Notice of deficiency with more than one matter or issue.* If the notice of deficiency for which the taxpayer requests Appeals consideration includes more than one matter or issue in a taxable year or period, the taxpayer must request referral for Appeals consideration and submit all such matters or issues at the same time.


(b) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable to relevant requests for consideration by Appeals made on or after February 14, 2025.





---

[N] [T.D. 10030, 90 FR 3662, Jan. 15, 2025]




