# ยง 63.522   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or any official designee of the Administrator.


*Affected source* means all HAP emission points within a facility that are related to the production of BLR or WSR, including process vents, storage tanks, wastewater systems, equipment leaks, and heat exchange systems.




*Basic liquid epoxy resins (BLR)* means resins made by reacting epichlorohydrin and bisphenol A to form diglycidyl ether of bisphenol-A (DGEBPA).


*Batch emission episode* means a discrete venting episode that may be associated with a single unit operation. For example, a displacement of vapor resulting from the charging of a vessel with HAP will result in a discrete emission episode that will last through the duration of the charge and will have an average flow rate equal to the rate of the charge. If the vessel is then heated, there will also be another discrete emission episode resulting from the expulsion of expanded vessel vapor space. Both emission episodes may occur in the same vessel or unit operation. There are possibly other emission episodes that may occur from the vessel or other process equipment, depending on process operations.


*Batch process* refers to a discontinuous process involving the bulk movement of material through sequential manufacturing steps. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties of a system vary with time. Addition of raw material and withdrawal of product do not typically occur simultaneously in a batch process.


*Closed-vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device or back into the process.


*Continuous process* means a process where the inputs and outputs flow continuously throughout the duration of the process. Continuous processes are typically steady-state.


*Dioxins and furans* means total tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.




*Drain system* means the system used to convey wastewater streams from a process unit, product storage tank, or feed storage tank to a waste management unit. The term includes all process drains and junction boxes, together with their associated sewer lines and other junction boxes, manholes, sumps, and lift stations, down to the receiving waste management unit. A segregated stormwater sewer system, which is a drain and collection system designed and operated for the sole purpose of collecting rainfall-runoff at a facility, and which is segregated from all other drain systems, is excluded from this definition.


*Equipment leaks* means, before July 15, 2027, emissions of hazardous air pollutants from a connector, pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, or instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service. On and after July 15, 2027, equipment leaks means emissions of hazardous air pollutants from a connector, pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, or instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service.




*Heat Exchange System* means any cooling tower system or once-through cooling water system (*e.g.,* river or pond water). A heat exchange system can include more than one heat exchanger and can include an entire recirculating or once-through cooling system.




*In organic hazardous air pollutant* or *in organic HAP service* means that a piece of equipment either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 5 percent by weight of total organic HAP's as determined according to the provisions of ยง 63.180(d). The provisions of ยง 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service.




*Pressure relief device or valve* means a valve, rupture disk, or similar device used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. A pressure relief device discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause. Such devices include conventional, spring-actuated relief valves, balanced bellows relief valves, pilot-operated relief valves, rupture disks, and breaking, buckling, or shearing pin devices. Devices that are actuated either by a pressure of less than or equal to 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge or by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices.




*Process vent* means a point of emission from a unit operation. Typical process vents include condenser vents, vacuum pumps, steam ejectors, and atmospheric vents from reactors and other process vessels.


*Production-based emission rate* means a ratio of the amount of HAP emitted to the amount of BLR or WSR produced.


*Research and development facility* means laboratory operations whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products, where the operations are under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale, except in a de minimis manner.


*Storage tank* means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain one or more HAP compounds.


*Unit operation* means those processing steps that occur within distinct equipment that are used, among other things, to prepare reactants, facilitate reactions, separate and purify products, and recycle materials. There may be several emission episodes within a single unit operation.


*Waste management unit* means any component, piece of equipment, structure, or transport mechanism used in storing, treating, or disposing of wastewater streams, or conveying wastewater between storage, treatment, or disposal operations.


*Wastewater* means aqueous liquid waste streams exiting equipment at an affected source.


*Wastewater system* means a system made up of a drain system and one or more waste management units.


*Wet strength resins (WSR)* means polyamide/ epichlorohydrin condensates which are used to increase the tensile strength of paper products. 



---

[N] [60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 26497, May 8, 2000; 89 FR 43268, May 16, 2024]




