# § 471.1   What definitions apply to this part?

*Construction* means the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition, weatherization, or repair of buildings, highways, or other changes or improvements to real property, including facilities providing utility services. The term construction also includes the supervision, inspection, and other on-site functions incidental to the actual construction.


*Construction work site* means the general physical location of any building, highway, or other change or improvement to real property which is undergoing construction, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition, weatherization or repair, and any temporary location or facility at which a contractor or subcontractor meets a demand or performs a function relating to the contract or subcontract.


*Contract* means, unless otherwise indicated, any Government contract or subcontract.


*Contracting agency* means any department, agency, establishment, or instrumentality in the executive branch of the Government, including any wholly owned Government corporation, that enters into contracts.


*Contractor* means, unless otherwise indicated, a prime contractor or subcontractor.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Labor.


*Director of OFCCP* means the Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs in the Department of Labor.


*Director of OLMS* means the Director of the Office of Labor-Management Standards in the Department of Labor.


*Employee notice clause* means the contract clause set forth in Appendix A that Government contracting departments and agencies must include in all Government contracts and subcontracts pursuant to Executive Order 13496 and this part.


*Government* means the Government of the United States of America.


*Government contract* means any agreement or modification thereof between any contracting agency and any person for the purchase, sale, or use of personal property or non-personal services. The term “personal property,” as used in this section, includes supplies, and contracts for the use of real property (such as lease arrangements), unless the contract for the use of real property itself constitutes real property (such as easements). The term “non-personal services” as used in this section includes, but is not limited to, the following services: utilities, construction, transportation, research, insurance, and fund depository. The term Government contract does not include:


(1) Agreements in which the parties stand in the relationship of employer and employee; and


(2) Federal financial assistance, as defined in 29 CFR 31.2.


*Labor organization* means any organization of any kind, or any agency or employee representation committee or plan, in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment, or conditions of work.


*Modification of a contract* means any alteration in the terms and conditions of that contract, including amendments, renegotiations, and renewals.


*Order* or *Executive Order* means Executive Order 13496 (74 FR 6107, Feb. 4, 2009).


*Person* means any natural person, corporation, partnership, unincorporated association, State or local government, and any agency, instrumentality, or subdivision of such a government.


*Prime contractor* means any person holding a contract with a contracting agency, and, for the purposes of subparts B and C of this part, includes any person who has held a contract subject to the Executive Order and this part.


*Related rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor,* as used in § 471.2 of this part, means rules, regulations, and relevant orders issued pursuant to the Executive Order or this part.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, or his or her designee.


*Subcontract* means any agreement or arrangement between a contractor and any person (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of an employer and an employee):


(1) For the purchase, sale or use of personal property or non-personal services that, in whole or in part, is necessary to the performance of any one or more contracts; or


(2) Under which any portion of the contractor's obligation under any one or more contracts is performed, undertaken or assumed.


*Subcontractor* means any person holding a subcontract and, for the purposes of subparts B and C of this part, any person who has held a subcontract subject to the Executive Order and this part.


*Union* means a labor organization as defined above.


*United States* means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Wake Island.




