# § 158.706   Recordkeeping.

(a) *Generally.* The Department documents an individual's appointment to a qualified position and creates records of a DHS-CS employee's employment in the DHS-CS in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 2951 and 5 CFR subchapter A, part 9, and subchapter B, parts 293 and 297.


(b) *Documenting a qualified position.* The Department documents a qualified position established under this part by documenting an individual's appointment to a qualified position. Such documentation includes a description of the individual's:


(1) CTMS qualifications and the DHS-CS cybersecurity work that can be performed through application of those qualifications;


(2) Applicable work and career structures established under the work valuation system described in § 158.404;


(3) Salary under the compensation system described in § 158.602;


(3) Assignment information described in paragraph (e) of this section;


(4) Official worksite described in § 158.704; and


(5) Work schedule described in § 158.705.


(c) *Updating qualified position documentation.* The Department updates the documentation associated with a DHS-CS employee's qualified position, described in paragraph (a) of this section, to reflect changes affecting the employee's qualified position, including any changes to the description of information listed in paragraph (a), such as enhancements to the employee's CTMS qualifications. Except as necessary for purposes of recordkeeping under this section, any update to the documentation associated with a DHS-CS employee's qualified position is not a promotion, transfer, or reassignment for any other purpose under 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.


(d) *Documenting an assignment.* The Department documents a DHS-CS employee's initial assignment as part of documenting the employee's qualified position under this section. The Department updates the documentation associated with a DHS-CS employee's qualified position for each of the employee's subsequent assignments described in § 158.703.


(e) *Assignment information.* Documentation of each assignment under this section includes the following operational information:


(1) Statement of cybersecurity work activities;


(2) Timeframe, such as anticipated duration;


(3) Primary DHS organization;


(4) Personnel security requirements;


(5) Location, such as official worksite determined under § 158.704;


(6) Information related to work scheduling under § 158.705; and


(7) Information related to the performance management program, including information relevant to appraisal reviews, mission impact reviews, and development reviews, described in subpart H of this part.


(f) *Integrating with existing processes.* For purposes of recordkeeping for DHS-CS employees, including documenting positions and assignments under this section, the Department uses existing Federal personnel recordkeeping processes, standards, requirements, and systems of record. CTMS policy implementing this section addresses integration of the approach to talent management under this part, including definitions used in this part, with existing Federal personnel recordkeeping processes, standards, requirements, and systems of record, as necessary.






