# § 1105.4   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions contained in the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR part 1508), the following definitions apply to these regulations: 


(a) *Act* means the Interstate Commerce Act, Subtitle IV of Title 49, U.S. Code, as amended. 


(b) *Applicant* means any person or entity seeking Board action, whether by application, petition, notice of exemption, or any other means that initiates a formal Board proceeding. 


(c) *Board* means the Surface Transportation Board. 


(d) *Environmental Assessment* or “EA” means a concise public document for which the Board is responsible that contains sufficient information for determining whether to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement or to make a finding of no significant environmental impact. 


(e) *Environmental documentation* means either an Environmental Impact Statement or an Environmental Assessment. 


(f) *Environmental Impact Statement* or “EIS” means the detailed written statement required by the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(c), for a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. 


(g) *Environmental Report* means a document filed by the applicant(s) that: 


(1) Provides notice of the proposed action; and 


(2) Evaluates its environmental impacts and any reasonable alternatives to the action. An environmental report may be in the form of a proposed draft Environmental Assessment or proposed draft Environmental Impact Statement. 


(h) *Filing* means any request for STB authority, whether by application, petition, notice of exemption, or any other means that initiates a formal Board proceeding. 


(i) *Office of Environmental Analysis* or “OEA” means the Office that prepares the Board's environmental documents and analyses.


(j) *Third-Party Consultant* means an independent contractor, utilized by the applicant, who works with OEA's approval and under OEA's direction to prepare any necessary environmental documentation. The third party consultant must act on behalf of the Board. The railroad may participate in the selection process, as well as in the subsequent preparation of environmental documents. However, to avoid any impermissible conflict of interest (*i.e.,* essentially any financial or other interest in the outcome of the railroad-sponsored project), the railroad may not be responsible for the selection or control of independent contractors. 



---

[N] [56 FR 36105, July 31, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 53268, Oct. 1, 1999; 81 FR 8853, Feb. 23, 2016]




