# § 210.6-03   Special rules of general application to registered investment companies and business development companies.

The financial statements filed for persons to which §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11 are applicable shall be prepared in accordance with the following special rules in addition to the general rules in §§ 210.1-01 to 210.4-10 (Articles 1, 2, 3, and 4). Where the requirements of a special rule differ from those prescribed in a general rule, the requirements of the special rule shall be met.


(a) *Content of financial statements.* The financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of this part (Regulation S-X) notwithstanding any provision of the articles of incorporation, trust indenture or other governing legal instruments specifying certain accounting procedures inconsistent with those required in §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11.


(b) *Audited financial statements.* Where, under Article 3 of this part, financial statements are required to be audited, the independent accountant shall have been selected and ratified in accordance with section 32 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-31).


(c) *Consolidated and combined statements.* (1) Consolidated and combined statements filed for registered investment companies and business development companies shall be prepared in accordance with §§ 210.3A-02 and 210.3A-03 (Article 3A), except that: 


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) A consolidated statement of the registrant and any of its investment company subsidiaries shall not be filed unless accompanied by a consolidating statement which sets forth the individual statements of each significant subsidiary included in the consolidated statement: *Provided, however,* That a consolidating statement need not be filed if all included subsidiaries are totally held; and


(iii) Consolidated or combined statements filed for subsidiaries not consolidated with the registrant shall not include any investment companies unless accompanied by consolidating or combining statements which set forth the individual statements of each included investment company which is a significant subsidiary.


(2) If consolidating or combining statements are filed, the amounts included under each caption in which financial data pertaining to affiliates is required to be furnished shall be subdivided to show separately the amounts:


(i) Eliminated in consolidation; and


(ii) Not eliminated in consolidation.


(d) *Valuation of investments.* The balance sheets of registered investment companies, other than issuers of face-amount certificates, and business development companies, shall reflect all investments at value, with the aggregate cost of each category of investment reported under § 210.6-04 subsection 1, 2, 3, and 9 or the aggregate cost of each category of investment reported under § 210.6-05 subsection 1 shown parenthetically. State in a note the methods used in determining the value of investments. As required by section 28(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-28(b)), qualified assets of face-amount certificate companies shall be valued in accordance with certain provisions of the Code of the District of Columbia.


(e) *Qualified assets.* State in a note the nature of any investments and other assets maintained or required to be maintained, by applicable legal instruments, in respect of outstanding face-amount certificates. If the nature of the qualifying assets and amount thereof are not subject to the provisions of section 28 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-28), a statement to that effect shall be made.


(f) *Restricted securities.* State in a note unless disclosed elsewhere the following information as to investment securities which cannot be offered for public sale without first being registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*) (restricted securities):


(1) The policy of the person with regard to acquisition of restricted securities.


(2) The policy of the person with regard to valuation of restricted securities. Specific comments shall be given as to the valuation of an investment in one or more issues of securities of a company or group of affiliated companies if any part of such investment is restricted and the aggregate value of the investment in all issues of such company or affiliated group exceeds five percent of the value of total assets. (As used in this paragraph, the term *affiliated* shall have the meaning given in § 210.6-02(a).)


(3) A description of the person's rights with regard to demanding registration of any restricted securities held at the date of the latest balance sheet.


(g) *Income recognition.* Dividends shall be included in income on the ex-dividend date; interest shall be accrued on a daily basis. Dividends declared on short positions existing on the record date shall be recorded on the ex-dividend date and included as an expense of the period.


(h) *Federal income taxes.* (1) The company's status as a *regulated investment company* as defined in subtitle A, chapter 1, subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, shall be stated in a note referred to in the appropriate statements. Such note shall also indicate briefly the principal assumptions on which the company relied in making or not making provisions for income taxes. However, a company which retains realized capital gains and designates such gains as a distribution to shareholders in accordance with section 852(b)(3)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code shall, on the last day of its taxable year (and not earlier), make provision for taxes on such undistributed capital gains realized during such year.


(2) State the following amounts based on cost for Federal income tax purposes:


(i) Aggregate gross unrealized appreciation for all investments in which there is an excess of value over tax cost;


(ii) The aggregate gross unrealized depreciation for all investments in which there is an excess of tax cost over value;


(iii) The net unrealized appreciation or depreciation; and


(iv) The aggregate cost of investments for Federal income tax purposes.


(i) *Issuance and repurchase by a registered investment company or business development company of its own securities.* Disclose for each class of the company's securities:


(1) The number of shares, units, or principal amount of bonds sold during the period of report, the amount received therefor, and, in the case of shares sold by closed-end management investment companies, the difference, if any, between the amount received and the net asset value or preference in involuntary liquidation (whichever is appropriate) of securities of the same class prior to such sale; and


(2) The number of shares, units, or principal amount of bonds repurchased during the period of report and the cost thereof. Closed-end management investment companies shall furnish the following additional information as to securities repurchased during the period of report:


(i) As to bonds and preferred shares, the aggregate difference between cost and the face amount or preference in involuntary liquidation and, if applicable net assets taken at value as of the date of repurchase were less than such face amount or preference, the aggregate difference between cost and such net asset value;


(ii) As to common shares, the weighted average discount per share, expressed as a percentage, between cost of repurchase and the net asset value applicable to such shares at the date of repurchases.


Note to paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii): The information required by paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section may be based on reasonable estimates if it is impracticable to determine the exact amounts involved.


(j) *Series companies.* (1) The information required by this part shall, in the case of a person which in essence is comprised of more than one separate investment company, be given as if each class or series of such investment company were a separate investment company; this shall not prevent the inclusion, at the option of such person, of information applicable to other classes or series of such person on a comparative basis, except as to footnotes which need not be comparative.


(2) If the particular class or series for which information is provided may be affected by other classes or series of such investment company, such as by the offset of realized gains in one series with realized losses in another, or through contingent liabilities, such situation shall be disclosed.


(k) *Certificate reserves.* (1) For companies issuing face-amount certificates subsequent to December 31, 1940 under the provisions of section 28 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-28), balance sheets shall reflect reserves for outstanding certificates computed in accordance with the provisions of section 28(a) of the Act.


(2) For other companies, balance sheets shall reflect reserves for outstanding certificates determined as follows:


(i) For certificates of the installment type, such amount which, together with the lesser of future payments by certificate holders as and when accumulated at a rate not to exceed 3
1/2 per centum per annum (or such other rate as may be appropriate under the circumstances of a particular case) compounded annually, shall provide the minimum maturity or face amount of the certificate when due.


(ii) For certificates of the fully-paid type, such amount which, as and when accumulated at a rate not to exceed 3
1/2 per centum per annum (or such other rate as may be appropriate under the circumstances of a particular case) compounded annually, shall provide the amount or amounts payable when due.


(iii) Such amount or accrual therefor, as shall have been credited to the account of any certificate holder in the form of any credit, or any dividend, or any interest in addition to the minimum maturity or face amount specified in the certificate, plus any accumulations on any amount so credited or accrued at rates required under the terms of the certificate.


(iv) An amount equal to all advance payments made by certificate holders, plus any accumulations thereon at rates required under the terms of the certificate.


(v) Amounts for other appropriate contingency reserves, for death and disability benefits or for reinstatement rights on any certificate providing for such benefits or rights.


(l) *Inapplicable captions.* Attention is directed to the provisions of §§ 210.4-02 and 210.4-03 which permit the omission of separate captions in financial statements as to which the items and conditions are not present, or the amounts involved not significant. However, amounts involving directors, officers, and affiliates shall nevertheless be separately set forth except as otherwise specifically permitted under a particular caption.


(m) *Swing pricing.* For a registered investment company that has adopted swing pricing policies and procedures, state in a note to the company's financial statements:


(1) The general methods used in determining whether the company's net asset value per share will swing;


(2) Whether the company's net asset value per share has swung during the year; and


(3) A general description of the effects of swing pricing.



---

[N] [81 FR 82010, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 82137, Nov. 18, 2016; 83 FR 50202, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 807, Jan. 6, 2021]




