# § 148.1   Scope, purpose, effective date, and compliance dates.

(a) *Scope.* This part applies to each financial company that is a records entity and, with respect to § 148.3(a), a top-tier financial company of a corporate group as defined in § 148.2.


(b) *Purpose.* This part establishes recordkeeping requirements with respect to QFCs of records entities in order to assist the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as receiver for a covered financial company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8)) in being able to exercise its rights and fulfill its obligations under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), (9), or (10).


(c) *Effective Date.* This part shall become effective December 30, 2016.


(d) *Compliance*—(1) *Initial compliance dates.* (i) A records entity subject to this part on the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) on the date that is 90 days after the effective date and with all other applicable requirements of this part on:


(A) March 31, 2019 for a records entity that:


(*1*) Has total assets equal to or greater than $1 trillion; or


(*2*) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A)(1) of this section;


(B) June 30, 2019 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance date set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section and:


(*1*) Has total assets equal to or greater than $500 billion; or


(*2*) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(1) of this section; and


(C) June 30, 2020 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance dates set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section and:


(*1*) Has total assets equal to or greater than $250 billion; or


(*2*) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C)(1) of this section; and


(D) June 30, 2021 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance dates set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.


(ii) A financial company that becomes a records entity after the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) within 90 days of becoming a records entity and with all other applicable requirements of this part within 540 days of becoming a records entity or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.


(2) *Subsequent compliance dates.* If a financial company that at one time met the definition of records entity later ceases to meet the definition of records entity and thereafter, on any subsequent date, again meets the definition of a records entity, such financial company must comply with all applicable requirements of this part within 365 days after such subsequent date, or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.


(3) *Extensions of time to comply.* The Secretary, in consultation with the FDIC, may grant one or more extensions of time for compliance with this part. A records entity may request an extension of time by submitting a written request to the Department of the Treasury and the FDIC at least 30 days prior to the deadline for its compliance provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The written request for an extension must contain:


(i) A statement of the reasons why the records entity cannot comply by the deadline; and


(ii) A plan for achieving compliance during the requested extension period.


(4) *Compliance by top-tier financial company.* A top-tier financial company must comply with § 148.3(a)(1)(ii) on the same date as the date on which the records entity members of the corporate group of which it is the top-tier financial company are required to comply with this part.



---

[N] [81 FR 75658, Oct. 31, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 17621, Apr. 23, 2018]




