# § 52.332   Control strategy: Particulate matter.

(a) On April 9, 1992, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Canon City area. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Canon City on November 15, 1991. 


(b)(1) On February 24, 1992, and December 9, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Pagosa Springs area. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Pagosa Springs on November 15, 1991. 


(2) On August 2, 1996, the Governor of Colorado submitted minor revisions to the Pagosa Springs Element of the Colorado PM-10 SIP. 


(c) On May 27, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Lamar area. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Lamar on November 15, 1991.


(d) On December 9, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted PM_10_ contingency measures for the moderate PM_10_ nonattainment areas of Canon City, Lamar, and Pagosa Springs. The submittal was made to satisfy the moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area requirements for contingency measures due for Canon City, Lamar, and Pagosa Springs on November 15, 1993. 


(e)(1) On January 15, 1992, March 17, 1993, and December 9, 1993, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM-10 nonattainment area plan for the Aspen area. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PM-10 nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Aspen on November 15, 1991. The December 9, 1993 submittal was also made to satisfy the PM-10 contingency measure requirements which were due for Aspen on November 15, 1993. 


(2) On March 13, 1995, the Governor of Colorado submitted minor revisions to the Aspen Element of the Colorado PM-10 SIP. 


(f) On March 30, 1995, and November 17, 1995, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area plan for the Denver area. The March 30, 1995 submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area SIP requirements due for the Denver PM_10_ nonattainment area on November 15, 1991. The November 17, 1995 submittal was also made to satisfy the PM_10_ contingency measure requirements which were due for Denver on November 15, 1993.


(g) On March 17, 1993, December 9, 1993, and April 22, 1996, the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area plan for Telluride. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Telluride on November 15, 1991. The December 9, 1993 submittal was also made to satisfy the PM_10_ contingency measure requirements which were due for Telluride on November 15, 1993.


(h) On September 16, 1997 the Governor of Colorado submitted the moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area plan for Steamboat Springs. The submittal was made to satisfy those moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area SIP requirements which were due for Steamboat Springs on July 20, 1995.


(i) On September 22, 1997, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Canon City PM10 nonattainment area and requested that the area be redesignated to attainment for the PM10 National Ambient Air Quality Standards. An April 24, 2000 letter from Margie Perkins, Director, Colorado Air Pollution Control Division, to Richard Long, Director, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, was sent to clarify the requirements of the contingency plan section of the Canon City maintenance plan. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(j) On May 10, 2000, the State of Colorado submitted maintenance plans for the Telluride and Pagosa Springs PM_10_ nonattainment areas and requested that these areas be redesignated to attainment for the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation requests and maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(k) *Determination*—EPA has determined that the Steamboat Springs PM_10_ “moderate” nonattainment area attained the PM_10_ national ambient air quality standard by December 31, 2000. This determination is based on air quality monitoring data from 1998, 1999, and 2000.


(l) On July 30, 2001, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Denver PM_10_ nonattainment area (“PM-10 Redesignation Request and Maintenance Plan For the Denver Metropolitan Area,” Chapter 4: “Maintenance Plan,” adopted April 19, 2001 by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission and effective April 19, 2001) and requested that the area be redesignated to attainment for the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(m) On November 9, 2001, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Aspen PM_10_ nonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(n) On July 31, 2002, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Steamboat Springs PM_10_ nonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(o) On July 31, 2002, the State of Colorado submitted a maintenance plan for the Lamar PM_10_ nonattainment area and requested that this area be redesignated to attainment for the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(p) *Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan,* PM10 Revised Maintenance Plan for Denver, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 15, 2005, State effective on March 2, 2006, and submitted by the Governor's designee on September 25, 2006. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(q) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PM_10_ Revised Maintenance Plan for Cañon City, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on November 20, 2008, State effective on December 30, 2008, and submitted by the Governor's designee on June 18, 2009. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(r) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PM_10_ Revised Maintenance Plan for Aspen, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 16, 2010, State effective on March 1, 2011, and submitted by the Governor's designee on May 25, 2011. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(s) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PM_10_ Revised Maintenance Plan for Telluride, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on November 19, 2009, State effective on December 30, 2009, and submitted by the Governor's designee on March 31, 2010. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(t) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, Final Revised PM_10_ Maintenance Plan for the Pagosa Springs Attainment/Maintenance Area, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on November 19, 2009, and submitted by the Governor's designee on March 31, 2010. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(u) Revisions to the Colorado State Implementation Plan, PM_10_ Revised Maintenance Plan for Steamboat Springs, as adopted by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission on December 15, 2011, State effective on January 30, 2012, and submitted by the Governor's designee on May 11, 2012. The revised maintenance plan satisfies all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.



---

[N] [58 FR 68038, Dec. 23, 1993] 


