# § 1562.21   Scope, general requirements, and definitions.

(a) *Scope.* This subpart applies to aircraft operations into or out of Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA), fixed base operators located at DCA or gateway airports; individuals designated as a security coordinator by aircraft operators or fixed base operators; and crewmembers, passengers, and armed security officers on aircraft operations subject to this subpart.


(b) *General requirements.* Each person operating an aircraft into or out of DCA must comply with this subpart, except:


(1) Military, law enforcement, and medivac aircraft operations;


(2) Federal and State government aircraft operations operating under an airspace waiver approved by TSA and the Federal Aviation Administration;


(3) All-cargo aircraft operations; and


(4) Passenger aircraft operations conducted under:


(i) A full security program approved by TSA in accordance with 49 CFR 1544.101(a); or


(ii) A foreign air carrier security program approved by TSA in accordance with 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b).


(c) *Other security programs.* Each aircraft operator required to comply with this subpart for an aircraft operation into or out of DCA must also comply with any other TSA-approved security program that covers that operation. If any requirements of the DASSP conflict with the requirements of another TSA-approved security program, the aircraft operation must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the DASSP.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Armed Security Officer Program* means the security program approved by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, for security officers authorized to carry a firearm under § 1562.29 of this part.


*Crewmember* means a person assigned to perform duty in an aircraft during flight time. This does not include an armed security officer.


*DCA* means Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.


*DASSP* means the aircraft operator security program (DCA Access Standard Security Program) approved by TSA under this part for aircraft operations into and out of DCA.


*FBO* means a fixed base operator that has been approved by TSA under this part to serve as a last point of departure for flights into or out of DCA.


*FBO Security Program* means the security program approved by TSA under this part for FBOs to serve flights into or out of DCA.


*Flightcrew member* means a pilot, flight engineer, or flight navigator assigned to duty in an aircraft during flight time.


*Gateway airport* means an airport that has been approved by TSA under this part as a last point of departure for flights into DCA under this part.


*Passenger* means any person on an aircraft other than a flightcrew member. A “passenger” includes an armed security officer authorized to carry a firearm in accordance with the rule.




