# ยง 111.14   Background investigation of the license applicant.

(a) *Scope of background investigation.* A background investigation under this section will ascertain facts relevant to the question of whether the applicant is qualified and will cover, but need not be limited to:


(1) The accuracy of the statements made in the application and interview;


(2) The business integrity and financial responsibility of the applicant; and


(3) When the applicant is an individual (including a member of a partnership or an officer of an association or corporation), the character and reputation of the applicant, including any association with any individuals or groups that may present a risk to the security or to the revenue collection of the United States.


(b) *Referral to Headquarters.* The processing Center will forward the application and supporting documentation to the appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade. The processing Center will also submit the recommendation for action on the application.


(c) *Additional inquiry.* The appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, may require further inquiry if additional facts are deemed necessary to evaluate the application. The appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, may also require the applicant (or in the case of a partnership, association, or corporation, one or more of its members or officers) to appear in person or by another approved method before the appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, or his or her representatives, for the purpose of undergoing further written or oral inquiry.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 22-21, 87 FR 63314, Oct. 18, 2022]



 




