# ยง 886.110   Contract rents.

(a) The sum of the Contract Rents plus an Allowance for Utilities and Other Services shall not exceed the published Section 8 Fair Market Rents for Existing Housing, except that they may be exceeded by:


(1) Up to 10 percent if the Field Office Director determines that special circumstances warrant such higher rents, or


(2) By up to 20 percent where the Regional Administrator determines that special circumstances warrant such higher rents, and in either case, such higher rents meet the test of reasonableness in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(b) In the case of any project completed not more than six years prior to the application for assistance under that part, or in the case of units converted to Section 8 which were previously assisted under Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 or Section 236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act, contract rents plus any allowance for utilities and other services may be as high as 75 percent of the published Section 8 Fair Market Rents for New Construction, which limitation may be increased: (1) By up to 10 percent if the Field Office Director determines that special circumstances warrant such higher rents, or (2) by up to 20 percent where the Regional Administrator determines that special circumstances warrant such higher rents, and in either case, such higher rents meet the test of reasonableness contained in paragraph (c) of this section. The project shall be converted using the current HUD approved rent level established pursuant to 24 CFR 207.19(e)(2)(i).


(c) In any case, HUD shall determine and so certify that the Contract Rents for the project do not exceed rents which are reasonable for the location, quality, amenities, facilities, and management and maintenance services in relation to the rents paid for comparable units in the private unassisted market, nor shall the Contract Rents exceed the rents charged by the Owner to unassisted Families for comparable units. HUD shall maintain for three years all certifications and relevant documentation under this paragraph (c).



---

[N] [42 FR 5603, Jan. 28, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 36103, Aug. 9, 1983; 48 FR 56949, Dec. 27, 1983]




