# § 1552.9   Security Coordinator.

(a) *Designation of a Security Coordinator.* Each flight training provider must designate and use a primary Security Coordinator. The Security Coordinator must be designated at the corporate level.


(b) *Notification to TSA.* Each flight training provider must provide to TSA the names, title(s), phone number(s), and email address(es) of the Security Coordinator and the alternate Security Coordinator(s), as applicable, no later than November 1, 2024. Once a flight training provider has notified TSA of the contact information for the designated Security Coordinator and the alternate Security Coordinator(s), as applicable, the provider must notify TSA within 5 days of any changes in any of the information required by this section. This information must be provided through the FTSP Portal.


(c) *Role of Security Coordinator.* Each flight training provider must ensure that at least one Security Coordinator—


(1) Serves as the primary contact for intelligence information and security-related activities and communications with TSA. Any individual designated as a Security Coordinator may perform other duties in addition to those described in this section.


(2) Is accessible to TSA on a 24-hours a day, 7 days a week basis.


(3) Coordinates security practices and procedures internally, and with appropriate law enforcement and emergency response agencies.


(d) *Training for Security Coordinator.* Security Coordinator must satisfactorily complete the security awareness training required by § 1552.13, and have the resources and knowledge necessary to quickly contact the following, as applicable:


(1) Their local TSA office;


(2) The local Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) office; and


(3) Local law enforcement, if a situation or an individual's behavior could pose an immediate threat.






