# § 243.200-1   Requirement.

(a) All solid wastes (or materials which have been separated for the purpose of recycling) shall be stored in such a manner that they do not constitute a fire, health, or safety hazard or provide food or harborage for vectors, and shall be contained or bundled so as not to result in spillage. All solid waste containing food wastes shall be securely stored in covered or closed containers which are nonabsorbent, leakproof, durable, easily cleanable (if reusable), and designed for safe handling. Containers shall be of an adequate size and in sufficient numbers to contain all food wastes, rubbish, and ashes that a residence or other establishment generates in the period of time between collections. Containers shall be maintained in a clean condition so that they do not constitute a nuisance, and to retard the harborage, feeding, and breeding of vectors. When serviced, storage containers should be emptied completely of all solid waste. 


(b) Storage of bulky wastes shall include, but is not limited to, removing all doors from large household appliances and covering the item(s) to reduce the problems of an attractive nuisance, and the accumulation of solid waste and water in and around the bulky items. 


(c) Reusable waste containers which are emptied manually shall not exceed 75 pounds (34.05 kg) when filled, and shall be capable of being serviced without the collector coming into physical contact with the solid waste. 


(d) In the design of all buildings or other facilities which are constructed, modified, or leased after the effective date of these guidelines, there shall be provisions for storage in accordance with these guidelines which will accommodate the volume of solid waste anticipated, which may be easily cleaned and maintained, and which will allow for efficient, safe collection. 


(e) Waste containers used for the storage of solid waste (or materials which have been separated for recycling) must meet the standards established by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) for waste containers as follows: Waste Containers—Safety Requirements, 1994, American National Standards Institute, ANSI Z245.30-1994; and Waste Containers—Compatibility Dimensions, 1996, American National Standards Institute, ANSI Z245.60-1996.


(1) The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.


(2) You may obtain a copy from American National Standards Institute, 11 W. 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. You may inspect a copy at the Environmental Protection Agency's RCRA Information Center, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [41 FR 6769, Feb. 13, 1976, as amended at 64 FR 70606, Dec. 17, 1999; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




