# § 206.203   Providing information

(a) *Statements of account activity.* The mortgagee shall provide to the borrower a monthly statement regarding the activity of the mortgage for each month, as well as for the calendar year. The statement shall summarize the total principal amount which has been paid to the borrower under the mortgage during that calendar year, the MIP paid to the Commissioner and charged to the borrower, the total amount of deferred interest added to the outstanding loan balance, the total outstanding loan balance, and the current principal limit. The mortgagee shall include an accounting of all payments for property charges. The statement shall be provided to the borrower monthly until the mortgage is paid in full by the borrower. The mortgagee shall provide the borrower with a new payment plan every time it recalculates monthly payments or the payment option is changed. The statements shall be in a format acceptable to the Commissioner.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Servicing—Providing information.* (1) Mortgagees shall provide loan information to borrowers and arrange for individual loan consultation on request. The mortgagee must establish written procedures and controls to assure prompt responses to inquiries. One or more of the following means of making information readily available to borrowers is required:


(i) A servicing office staffed with competent personnel located within 200 miles of the property, capable of providing timely responses to requests for information. Complete records need not be maintained in such an office if the staff is able to secure needed information and pass it on to the borrower.


(ii) Toll-free telephone service at an office capable of providing needed information.


(2)(i) All borrowers must be informed of and reminded annually of the system available for obtaining answers to loan inquiries and the office from which needed information may be obtained. Toll-free telephone service need not be provided to a borrower other than at the office designated to serve the borrower nor other than from the immediate vicinity of the security property.


(ii) The mortgagee shall provide the borrower with the telephone number where the borrower may speak to employee(s) specifically designated by the mortgagee or its servicer to address inquiries concerning mortgages insured under this part. Such information shall be provided annually and whenever the servicer or the designated employee (or employee group) changes.


(3) Mortgagees must respond to FHA requests for information concerning individual accounts.




