# ยง 1778.9   Uses.

Grant funds may be used for the following purposes:


(a) Waterline extensions from existing systems. 


(b) Construction of new waterlines. 


(c) Repairs to an existing system. 


(d) Significant maintenance to an existing system. 


(e) Construction of new wells, reservoirs, transmission lines, treatment plants, and other sources of water. 


(f) Equipment replacement. 


(g) Connection and/or tap fees. 


(h) Pay costs that were incurred within six months of the date an application was filed with the Agency to correct an emergency situation that would have been eligible for funding under this part. 


(i) Any other appropriate purpose such as legal fees, engineering fees, recording costs, environmental impact analyses, archaeological surveys, possible salvage or other mitigation measures, planning, establishing or acquiring rights associated with developing sources of, treating, storing, or distributing water. 


(j) Assist rural water systems to comply with the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*) (FWPCA) or the SDWA when such failure to comply is directly related to a recent decline in quality of potable water. This would not apply to changes in the requirements of FWPCA or SDWA. 


(k) Provide potable water to communities through means other than those covered above for no more than 120 days when a more permanent solution is not feasible in a shorter time frame. Where drinking water supplies are inadequate due to an event, including drought, severe weather, or contamination, potable water may be provided for a period of time, not to exceed an additional 120 days to protect public health.



---

[N] [68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]




