# ยง 22.912   Service area boundary extensions.

This section contains rules governing service area boundary (SAB) extensions. SAB extensions are areas (calculated using the methodology of ยง 22.911) that extend outside of the licensee's Cellular Geographic Service Area (CGSA) boundary into Unserved Area or into the CGSA of a neighboring co-channel licensee. Service within SAB extensions is not protected from interference or capture under ยง 22.911(d) unless and until the area within the SAB extension becomes part of the CGSA in compliance with all applicable rules.


(a) *Extensions into Unserved Area.* Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the licensee of a Cellular system may, at any time, extend its SAB into Unserved Area and provide service on a secondary basis only, provided that the extension area comprises less than 130 contiguous square kilometers (50 contiguous square miles). If more than one licensee of a Cellular system extends into all or a portion of the same Unserved Area under this section, all such licensees may provide service in such Unserved Area on a shared secondary (unprotected) basis only.


(b) *Contract extensions.* The licensee of any Cellular system may, at any time, enter into a contract with an applicant for, or a licensee of, a Cellular system on the same channel block to allow one or more SAB extensions into its CGSA (not into Unserved Area).


(c) *Gulf of Mexico Service Area.* Land-based Cellular system licensees may not extend their SABs into the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone (GMEZ) absent written contractual consent of the co-channel GMEZ licensee. GMEZ licensees may not extend their SABs into the CGSA of a licensee on the same channel block in an adjacent CMA or the Gulf of Mexico Coastal Zone absent written contractual consent of the co-channel licensee.



---

[N] [79 FR 72151, Dec. 5, 2014]




