# § 34.4   Required exhibits.

(a) *Exhibit A.* The applicant must file the statement of corporate purposes from its articles of incorporation. 


(b) *Exhibit B.* A copy of all resolutions of the applicant's directors authorizing the issuance of securities for which the application is made; and copies of the resolution of the stockholders approving such issuance if approval of the stockholders has been obtained.


(c) *Exhibit C.* The Balance Sheet and attached notes for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been published, provided that the 12-month period ended no more than 4 months prior to the date of the filing of the application, on both an actual basis and a pro forma basis in the form prescribed for the “Comparative Balance Sheet” of FERC Form No. 1, “Annual Report for major electric utilities, licensees and others.” Each adjustment made in determining the pro forma basis must be clearly identified. 


(d) *Exhibit D.* The Income Statement and attached notes for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been published, provided that the 12-month period ended no more than 4 months prior to the date of the filing of the application, on both an actual basis and a pro forma basis in the form prescribed for the “Statement of Income for the Year” of FERC Form No. 1, “Annual Report for major electric utilities, licensees and others.” Each adjustment made in determining the pro forma basis must be clearly identified. 


(e) *Exhibit E.* A Statement of Cash Flows and Computation of Interest Coverage on an actual basis and a pro forma basis for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been published, provided that the 12-month period ended no more than 4 months prior to the date of the filing of the application. The Statement of Cash Flows must be in the form prescribed for the “Statement of Cash Flows” of the FERC Form No. 1, Annual Report for major electric utilities, licensees and others,” followed by a computation of interest coverage, in the form of the following worksheet: 


(f) *Exhibit F.* A copy of registration statement and exhibits which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the proposed security issuance.



---

[N] [Order 182, 46 FR 50514, Oct. 14, 1981, as amended by Order 390, 49 FR 32505, Aug. 14, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4853, Jan. 25, 1995; 60 FR 27882, May 26, 1995]




