# 22.504   General requirements for project labor agreements.

(a) *General.* Project labor agreements established under this subpart shall fully conform to all statutes, regulations, and Executive orders.


(b) *Requirements.* A project labor agreement shall—


(1) Bind all contractors and subcontractors engaged in construction on the construction project to comply with the project labor agreement;


(2) Allow all contractors and subcontractors to compete for contracts and subcontracts without regard to whether they are otherwise parties to collective bargaining agreements;


(3) Contain guarantees against strikes, lockouts, and similar job disruptions;


(4) Set forth effective, prompt, and mutually binding procedures for resolving labor disputes arising during the term of the project labor agreement;


(5) Provide other mechanisms for labor-management cooperation on matters of mutual interest and concern, including productivity, quality of work, safety, and health; and


(6) Include any additional requirements as the agency deems necessary to satisfy its needs.




(c) *Labor organizations.* An agency may not require contractors or subcontractors to enter into a project labor agreement with any particular labor organization.




(d) *Exceptions to project labor agreement requirements*—(1) *Exception.* The senior procurement executive may grant an exception from the requirements at 22.503(b), providing a specific written explanation of why at least one of the following conditions exists with respect to the particular contract:


(i) Requiring a project labor agreement on the project would not advance the Federal Government's interests in achieving economy and efficiency in Federal procurement. The exception shall be based on one or more of the following factors:


(A) The project is of short duration and lacks operational complexity.


(B) The project will involve only one craft or trade.


(C) The project will involve specialized construction work that is available from only a limited number of contractors or subcontractors.


(D) The agency's need for the project is of such an unusual and compelling urgency that a project labor agreement would be impracticable.


(ii) Market research indicates that requiring a project labor agreement on the project would substantially reduce the number of potential offerors to such a degree that adequate competition at a fair and reasonable price could not be achieved. (See 10.002(b)(1) and 36.104). A likely reduction in the number of potential offerors is not, by itself, sufficient to except a contract from coverage under this authority unless it is coupled with the finding that the reduction would not allow for adequate competition at a fair and reasonable price.


(iii) Requiring a project labor agreement on the project would otherwise be inconsistent with Federal statutes, regulations, Executive orders, or Presidential memoranda.


(2) *Considerations.* When determining whether the exception in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section applies, contracting officers shall consider current market conditions and the extent to which price fluctuations may be attributable to factors other than the requirement for a project labor agreement (*e.g.,* costs of labor or materials, supply chain costs). Agencies may rely on price analysis conducted on recent competitive proposals for construction projects of a similar size and scope.


(3) *Timing of the exception*—(i) *Contracts other than IDIQ contracts.* The exception must be granted for a particular contract by the solicitation date.


(ii) *IDIQ contracts.* An exception shall be granted prior to the solicitation date if the basis for the exception cited would apply to all orders. Otherwise, exceptions shall be granted for each order by the time of the notice of the intent to place an order (*e.g.,* 16.505(b)(1)).





---

[N] [75 FR 19178, Apr. 13, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 88727, Dec. 22, 2023]








