# § 301.6722-1   Failure to furnish correct payee statements.

(a) *Imposition of penalty*—(1) *General rule.* A penalty of $250 is imposed for each *payee statement* (as defined in section 6724(d)(2) and paragraph (e)(2) of this section) with respect to which a *failure* (as defined in section 6722(a) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section) occurs. No more than one penalty will be imposed under this paragraph (a) with respect to a single payee statement even though there may be more than one failure with respect to such statement. However, the penalty will apply to failures on composite substitute payee statements as though each type of payment and other required information were furnished on separate statements. A *composite substitute payee statement* is a single document created by a filer to reflect several types of payments made to the same payee. The total amount imposed on any person for all failures during any calendar year with respect to all payee statements will not exceed $3,000,000. *See* section 6722(e) and paragraph (c) of this section for higher penalties if a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements. *See* paragraph (d) of this section for a safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors. *See* paragraph (f) of this section for inflation adjustments to penalty amounts. *See* § 301.6724-1(a)(1) for a waiver of the penalty for a failure that is due to reasonable cause.


(2) *Failures subject to the penalty.* The failures to which section 6722(a) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply are—


(i) A failure to furnish a payee statement on or before the prescribed date therefore to the person to whom such statement is required to be furnished (“failure to furnish timely”), and




(ii) A failure to include all of the information required to be shown on a payee statement or the inclusion of incorrect information (failure to include correct information). A failure to furnish timely includes a failure to furnish a written statement to the payee in a statement mailing as required under sections 6042(c), 6044(e), 6049(c), and 6050N(b), as well as a failure to furnish the statement on a form acceptable to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, a failure to include correct information encompasses a failure to include the information required by applicable information reporting statutes or by any administrative pronouncements issued thereunder (such as regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, or information reporting forms).
















(b) *Exception for inconsequential errors or omissions*—(1) *In general.* An inconsequential error or omission is not considered a failure to include correct information. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term “inconsequential error or omission” means any failure that cannot reasonably be expected to prevent or hinder the payee from timely receiving correct information and reporting it on his or her return or from otherwise putting the statement to its intended use.


(2) *Errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.* Errors or omissions relating to the following are never inconsequential:




(i) A dollar amount, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section;






(ii) The significant items in the address of a payee, which is the address provided by the payee to the filer;


(iii) The appropriate form for the information provided (*i.e.,* whether or not the form is an acceptable substitute for an official form of the IRS); and


(iv) The manner of furnishing a statement required under sections 6042(c), 6044(e), 6049(e), and 6050N(b). The IRS may, by administrative pronouncement, specify other types of errors or omissions that are never inconsequential.


(3) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following examples, which do not take into account any possible application of the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (c) of this section, the safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors under paragraph (d) of this section, or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a):












(i) *Example 1.* A payor furnishes a statement with respect to a Form 1099-MISC (relating to miscellaneous income). The payee statement is complete and correct, except the word “boulevard” is misspelled in the payee's address. The error cannot reasonably be expected to prevent or hinder the payee from timely receiving correct information and reporting it on his or her tax return or from otherwise putting the statement to its intended use. Therefore, no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section.




(ii) *Example 2.* Assume the same facts in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section (*Example 1*), except that the only error on the payee statement is that the payee's street address, 4821 Grant Boulevard, is reported incorrectly as 8421 Grant Boulevard. A penalty is imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the payee statement because the error can reasonably be expected to prevent or hinder the payee from timely receiving correct information and reporting it on his or her tax return or from otherwise putting the statement to its intended use.


(c) *Higher penalty for intentional disregard of requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements*—

(1) *Application of section 6722(e).* If a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements, the amount of the penalty must be determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Whether a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely correct payee statements is based upon the facts and circumstances surrounding the failure. The facts and circumstances considered include those under § 301.6721-1(g)(3), which will apply in determining whether a failure under this section is due to intentional disregard.




(2) *Amount of the penalty.* If one or more failures under paragraph (a) of this section are due to intentional disregard of the requirement to furnish timely payee statements or of the requirement to include correct information, then, with respect to each such failure determined under this paragraph (c)(2)—


(i) Paragraph (d) of this section will not apply;


(ii) The $3,000,000 limitation under paragraph (a) of this section will not apply and the penalty under this paragraph (c)(2) will not be taken into account in applying the $3,000,000 limitation to penalties not determined under this paragraph (c)(2);


(iii) The penalty imposed under paragraph (a) of this section will be $500 or, if greater, the statutory percentage; and




(iv) The term “statutory percentage” means—


(A) In the case of a payee statement other than a statement required under section 6045(b), 6041A(e) (in respect of a return required under section 6041A(b)), 6050H(d), 6050J(e), 6050K(b), or 6060L(c), 10 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly, or


(B) In the case of a payee statement required under section 6045(b), 6050K(b), or 6050L(c), 5 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the items required to be reported correctly.


(3) *Computation of the penalty; aggregate dollar amount of items required to be shown correctly.* The aggregate dollar amount used in computing the penalty under this paragraph (c) is the amount that is not reported or is reported incorrectly. If the intentional disregard relates to a dollar amount, the statutory percentage is applied to the difference between the dollar amount reported and the amount required to be reported correctly. If the intentional disregard relates to any other item on the return, the statutory percentage is applied to the aggregate amount of items required to be reported correctly. In determining such amount the same item shall be counted only once. For example, if a filer willfully fails to furnish a Form 1099-INT on which $800 of interest and $160 of Federal income tax withheld (*i.e.,* backup withholding) is required to be shown, only the $800 amount is taken into account in computing the penalty.


(d) *Safe harbor exception for certain de minimis errors*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d)(3) of this section, the penalty under section 6722(a) and paragraph (a) of this section is not imposed for a failure described in section 6722(a)(2)(B) and paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section (failure to include correct information on payee statement) if the failure relates to an incorrect dollar amount and is a de minimis error. If the safe harbor in this paragraph (d) applies to a payee statement and the payee statement was otherwise correct and timely furnished, no correction is required and, for purposes of this section, the payee statement is treated as having been furnished with all of the correct required information.


(2) *Definition of de minimis error.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), an error in a dollar amount is de minimis if the difference between any single amount in error and the correct amount is not more than $100, and, if the difference is with respect to an amount of tax withheld, it is not more than $25. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), tax withheld includes any amount required to be shown on an *information return* or *payee statement* (as defined in section 6724(d)(1) and (2), respectively) withheld under section 3102 or 3402, as well as any such amount required to be shown on such an information return or payee statement that is creditable under section 27, 31, 33, or 1474.


(3) *Election to override the safe harbor exception*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(vi) and (vii) of this section, the safe harbor exception provided for by this paragraph (d) does not apply to any payee statement if the person to whom the statement is required to be furnished (the payee) makes an election that the safe harbor not apply with respect to the statement.


(ii) *Timing of election.* The payee must elect no later than the later of 30 days after the date on which the payee statement is required to be furnished to the payee, or October 15 of the calendar year, to receive a correct payee statement required to be furnished in that calendar year without having the safe harbor under paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply. The date of an election is the date the election is received by the filer. For purposes of this section, the provisions of section 7502 relating to timely mailing treated as timely delivery apply in determining the date an election is considered to be received by the filer, treating delivery to the filer as if the filer were an agency, officer, or office under such section. The election will remain in effect for all subsequent years unless revoked under paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section.


(iii) *Manner for making the election.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the payee must make the election by delivering the election in writing to the filer. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the written election must be made in writing on paper. The payee may deliver the election in person, by mail by United States Postal Service, or by a *designated delivery service* as defined under section 7502(f)(2). If the filer has not otherwise provided an address under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the payee must send the written election to the filer's address appearing on the payee statement furnished by the filer to the payee with respect to which the election is being made or as directed by that person upon appropriate inquiry by the payee. The written election must:


(A) Clearly state that the payee is making the election;


(B) Provide the payee's name, address, and *taxpayer identification number* (*TIN*) (as defined in section 7701(a)(41) of the Internal Revenue Code) to the filer;


(C) If the payee wants the election to apply only to specific types of statements, identify the type of payee statement(s) and account number(s), if applicable, to which the election applies (for example, Form 1099-DIV, *Dividends and Distributions*); and


(D) Provide any other information required by the IRS in forms, instructions, or publications.


(iv) *Payee statements to which the election applies.* An election by a payee under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section applies to all types of payee statements the filer is required to furnish to the payee, unless the payee specifies otherwise on the election under paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.


(v) *Reasonable alternative manner for making the election in cases of notification by the filer*—(A) *In general.* If the filer satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section, and provides for a reasonable alternative manner as described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section, a payee may decide to make the election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section pursuant to that reasonable alternative manner.


(B) *Notification of payee of reasonable alternative manner for making election.* The filer may elect to provide notification to the payee of a reasonable alternative manner to make the election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, as described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section. To provide a valid notification under this paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B), the filer must provide notification to the payee that:


(*1*) Is in writing (either on paper or in electronic format);


(*2*) Is timely provided to the payee under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D) of this section;


(*3*) Explains to the payee to whom that filer is required to furnish a payee statement of the payee's ability to elect, under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, that the safe harbor exceptions for de minimis errors not apply, and of the payee's ability to choose to make the election using the default method under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section;


(*4*) Provides an address to which the payee may send an election under paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (iii) of this section;


(*5*) Provides any reasonable alternative manner or manners, as described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section, that the filer is making available for the payee to make the election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section; and


(*6*) Describes the information required for making the election described by paragraphs (d)(3)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section. Solely for purposes of the reasonable alternative manner, the notification may provide that some or all of the information described in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section is not required and may provide that the provision of an account number as referenced in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section is required if the payee decides to use the reasonable alternative manner for the election.


(C) *Notification of revocation procedures.* A notification under this paragraph (d)(3)(v) may also provide the procedures for making a revocation of an election under paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section. Solely for purposes of the reasonable alternative manner, the notification may provide that some or all of the information described in paragraph (d)(3)(vii)(B) of this section is not required and may provide that the provision of an account number as referenced in paragraph (d)(3)(vii)(E) of this section is required if the payee decides to use a reasonable alternative manner for making a revocation.


(D) *Time for providing notification of reasonable alternative manner for making payee election.* A notification under this paragraph (d)(3)(v) will be timely under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) of this section if:


(*1*) The notification is provided with, or at the time of, the furnishing of the payee statement; or


(*2*) The filer previously provided a valid notification under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section to the payee with, or at the time of, the furnishing of a payee statement associated with a particular account, in which case notification will be considered to have been timely provided with respect to subsequent payee statements associated with that particular account. If the filer wishes to provide for a different reasonable alternative manner than a previous reasonable alternative manner, the filer must provide new notification in compliance with the timeliness rule of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D)(*1*) of this section, and must accept payee elections under the previous reasonable alternative manner for a period of at least 60 days after the receipt of the new notification by the payee.


(E) *Reasonable alternative manner.* A reasonable alternative manner described in a notification under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section may include that a payee election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section may be made electronically (for example, via email or website) or telephonically. The reasonable alternative manner may not impose any prerequisite, condition, or time limitation on, or otherwise limit, the payee's ability to make an election under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, except as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section; it may only offer a reasonable alternative manner or manners for making this election under this paragraph (d)(3)(v).


(vi) *Election not available for certain information.* The election to override the safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section is not available with respect to information that may not be altered under specific information reporting rules. *See,* for example, § 1.6045-4(i)(5) of this chapter.


(vii) *Revocation of election.* The payee may revoke a prior election by submitting a revocation to the filer. The effect of a revocation of a prior election is that the safe harbor for certain de minimis errors will apply to the payee statements that the payee identifies and that are furnished or are due to be furnished after the revocation is received. The revocation will remain in effect until the payee makes a valid and timely election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. The date of a revocation is the date the revocation is received by the filer. For purposes of this section, the provisions of section 7502 relating to timely mailing treated as timely delivery apply in determining the date a revocation is considered to be received by the filer, treating delivery to the filer as if the filer were an agency, officer, or office under section 7502. The revocation must be made in the same manner or manners described for making the election, that is pursuant to either paragraph (d)(3)(iii) or (v) of this section, as the payee chooses if paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section is applicable. Except as provided under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*6*) of this section, the revocation must:


(A) Clearly state that the payee is revoking the payee's prior election;


(B) Provide the payee's name, address, and TIN to the filer;


(C) Provide the name of the filer;


(D) Identify the type of payee statement(s) (for example, Form 1099-DIV) to which the revocation applies;


(E) Identify the account number(s), if applicable, to which the revocation applies; and


(F) Provide any other information required by the IRS in forms, instructions or publications.


(viii) *Reasonable cause. See* § 301.6724-1(h) for rules relating to waiver of the section 6722 penalty in cases where the safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply because of an election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.


(4) *Record retention.* To facilitate proof of compliance with reporting and other obligations under the internal revenue laws, filers must retain records of any election or revocation by the payee under paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (vii) of this section, respectively, and any notification made under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section for as long as the contents of the election, revocation, or notification may be material in the administration of any internal revenue law. For rules regarding record retention, *see* section 6001 and § 1.6001-1 of this chapter. For additional procedures applicable to record retention in the context of electronic storage, *see* Rev. Proc. 97-22, 1997-1 C.B. 652, Rev. Proc. 98-25, 1998-1 C.B. 689, and any subsequently published guidance.


(5) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples, which do not address any possible application of the penalty for intentional disregard under paragraph (c) of this section or the reasonable cause waiver under § 301.6724-1(a):


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* Filer W is required to file with the IRS by February 28, 2024, and furnish to Payee E by February 15, 2024, Form 1099-B *Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions,* because W is a broker who sold stocks on behalf of E resulting in proceeds of $5,000 during calendar year 2023. W properly withheld an amount of $1,736 under applicable backup withholding rules because E failed to furnish E's TIN to W. On the Form 1099-B, W reports as follows: Box 1d, Proceeds, $4,900; and Box 4, Federal income tax withheld, $1,761. W otherwise correctly and timely files and furnishes the Form 1099-B. E does not make an election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.


(B) *Analysis.* The safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies, because the differences between each of the amounts reported in error and the correct amounts are not more than the applicable limits. The error in the dollar amount reported in Box 1d, Proceeds, is de minimis because the difference between the amount in error ($4,900) and the correct amount ($5,000) is not more than $100; it is exactly $100. The error in the dollar amount reported in Box 4, Federal income tax withheld, is de minimis because the $25 difference between the amount in error ($1,761) and the correct amount ($1,736) is not more than $25, the limit for an error with respect to an amount reported for tax withheld.


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) of this section (*Example 1*), except that Filer W reports $1,710 as the amount in Box 4, Federal income tax withheld.


(B) *Analysis.* The safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply because the Form 1099-B contains a failure that is not a de minimis error. The difference between the amount in error ($1,710) and the correct amount ($1,736) is $26, which is more than the $25 limit for de minimis errors with respect to an amount reported for tax withheld.


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* In 2024, Filer X provides Payee B with valid notification of a reasonable alternative manner under paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section for making the payee election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. B timely elects pursuant to the reasonable alternative manner during 2024. B elects the reasonable alternative manner with respect to all payee statements that X is required to furnish to B. In January 2025, X decides to provide for a different, but also valid, reasonable alternative manner; X provides notification of this different reasonable alternative manner to B, and B receives notification of this different reasonable alternative manner, pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section, on January 16, 2025. B decides to revoke B's prior election, with respect to the Forms 1099-DIV that X is required to furnish to B.


(B) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section, Payee B may provide the revocation to Filer X in any of three different manners. First, B may provide the revocation to X in the same manner as if B were making an election under the default manner of paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section; B may do so at any time. Second, having received notification from X of the different reasonable alternative manner on January 16, 2025, B may provide the revocation to X in the same manner as if B were making an election under the different reasonable alternative manner pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section. Third, because X previously provided notification of a reasonable alternative manner (2024 alternative) before providing notification of a different reasonable alternative manner on January 16, 2025 (2025 alternative), B may provide the revocation to X in the same manner as if B were making an election under the previous reasonable alternative manner (2024 alternative); B may do so for a period of 60 days after January 16, 2025, pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D)(*2*) of this section.


(iv) *Example 4*—(A) *Facts.* In 2024, Filer Y furnishes, as required, a Form W-2, *Wage and Tax Statement,* to Payee C for wages paid in 2023. The correct version of this Form W-2, without any errors, de minimis or otherwise, would have reported $15,200 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,200 of social security tax withheld, $1,450 of Medicare tax withheld, and $6,000 of state income tax withheld. However, the Form W-2 that Y furnishes to C reports $15,180 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,180 of social security tax withheld, $1,430 of Medicare tax withheld, and $5,980 of state income tax withheld. The 2023 Form W-2 does not require reporting a sum total of tax withheld of all types. C does not make an election under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.


(B) *Analysis.* For each of the four amounts of tax withheld, the difference between the amount of tax withheld that is reported on the Form W-2 and the correct amount is $20. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, each of these errors is a de minimis error because each is with respect to an amount of tax withheld and is not more than $25. If there are no other errors on the Form W-2, the safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies. The amounts of tax withheld are not combined in determining whether an error constitutes a de minimis error, if a combined amount is not required to be reported on the payee statement.


(v) *Example 5*—(A) *Facts.* In 2024, Filer Z furnishes, as required, a Form W-2 to Payee D for wages paid in 2023. The correct version of this Form W-2, without any errors, de minimis or otherwise, would have reported $15,200 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,200 of social security tax withheld, $1,450 of Medicare tax withheld, $6,000 of state income tax withheld, and no other taxes withheld. The Form W-2 that Z furnishes to D reports $15,170 of Federal income tax withheld, $6,220 of social security tax withheld, and the correct amount of Medicare tax withheld and state income tax withheld.


(B) A single amount of tax withheld reported on the Form W-2, specifically the amount of Federal income tax withheld, differs from the correct amount by more than $25. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this error is not a de minimis error. Therefore, the safe harbor exception for de minimis errors provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply. It is irrelevant that the sum total of taxes withheld reported on the Form W-2 ($28,840) differs from the correct total of taxes withheld ($28,850) by less than $25.


(6) *Voluntary corrections.* Regardless of whether the de minimis error safe harbor in this paragraph (d) provides an exception for not furnishing a particular corrected payee statement, the corrected payee statement may be furnished voluntarily if a corresponding information return reflecting the information reported on the corrected payee statement is concurrently filed.


(7) *Limitations on applicability.* The safe harbor exception provided for by paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies only for the purposes of payee statement penalties under section 6722. Accordingly, this safe harbor exception applies to the reporting of amounts on payee statements, including the reporting of the withholding of tax on payee statements, but does not apply for purposes of any underlying requirements to withhold or pay tax. Interest, penalties, and other additions to tax may be imposed under other sections for under-withholding or underpaying tax in any amount.








(e) *Definitions*—(1) *Payee. See* § 301.6721-1(h)(5) for the definition of *payee.*

(2) *Payee statement.* For purposes of this section the term *payee statement* has the same meaning as *payee statement* as defined by section 6724(d)(2), including any statement required to be furnished under—


(i) Section 6031(b) or (c), 6034A, or 6037(b) (relating to statements furnished by certain pass-thru entities, generally a Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), “Partner's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,” for section 6031(b) or (c), a copy of the Schedule K-1 (Form 1041), “Beneficiary's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,” for section 6034A, and a copy of Schedule K-1 (Form 1120S), “Shareholder's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,” for section 6037(b));


(ii) Section 6039(b) (relating to information required in connection with certain options);


(iii) Section 6041(d) (relating to information at source, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC, “Miscellaneous Income”; Form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement”; Form 1099-INT, “Interest Income”; and the winner's copies of Form W-2G, “Certain Gambling Winnings”);


(iv) Section 6041A(e) (relating to returns regarding payments of remuneration for services and direct sales, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);


(v) Section 6042(c) (relating to returns regarding payments of dividends and corporate earnings and profits, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-DIV, “Dividends and Distributions”);


(vi) Section 6043A(b) or (d) (relating to returns relating to taxable mergers and acquisitions);


(vii) Section 6044(e) (relating to returns regarding payments of patronage dividends, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-PATR, “Taxable Distributions Received From Cooperatives”);




(viii) Section 6045(a) or (d) (relating to returns of brokers, generally reported on Form 1099-B, *Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions,* for broker transactions not involving digital assets; Form 1099-DA, *Digital Asset Proceeds From Broker Transactions,* for broker transactions involving digital assets; Form 1099-S, *Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions,* for gross proceeds from the sale or exchange of real estate; and Form 1099-MISC, *Miscellaneous Income,* for certain substitute payments and payments to attorneys);


(ix) Section 6045A (relating to information required in connection with transfers of covered securities to brokers);


(x) Section 6045B(c) or (e) (relating to returns relating to actions affecting basis of specified securities);


(xi) Section 6049(c) (relating to returns regarding payments of interest, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID, “Original Issue Discount”);


(xii) Section 6050A(b) (relating to reporting requirements of certain fishing boat operators, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);


(xiii) Section 6050H(d) or (h)(2) (relating to returns relating to mortgage interest received in trade or business from individuals, generally the payor copy of Form 1098, “Mortgage Interest Statement”);


(xiv) Section 6050I(e), (g)(4), or (g)(5) (relating to returns relating to cash received in trade or business, etc., generally a copy of Form 8300, “Report of Cash Payments Over $10,000 Received In a Trade or Business”);


(xv) Section 6050J(e) (relating to returns relating to foreclosures and abandonments of security, generally the borrower copy of Form 1099-A, “Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured Property”);


(xvi) Section 6050K(b) (relating to returns relating to exchanges of certain partnership interests, generally a copy of Form 8308, “Report of a Sale or Exchange of Certain Partnership Interests”);


(xvii) Section 6050L(c) (relating to returns relating to certain dispositions of donated property, generally a copy of Form 8282, “Donee Information Return”);


(xviii) Section 6050N(b) (relating to returns regarding payments of royalties, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);


(xix) Section 6050P(d) (relating to returns relating to the cancellation of indebtedness by certain financial entities, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-C, “Cancellation of Debt”);


(xx) Section 6050Q(b) (relating to certain long-term care benefits, generally the policyholder and insured copies of Form 1099-LTC, “Long-Term Care and Accelerated Death Benefits”);


(xxi) Section 6050R(c) (relating to returns relating to certain purchases of fish, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-MISC);


(xxii) Section 6051 (relating to receipts for employees, generally the employee copy of Form W-2);


(xxiii) Section 6052(b) (relating to returns regarding payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance, generally the employee copy of Form W-2);


(xxiv) Section 6053(b) or (c) (relating to reports of tips, generally the employee copy of Form W-2);


(xxv) Section 6048(b)(1)(B) (relating to foreign trust reporting requirements, generally copies of the owner and beneficiary statements of Form 3520-A, “Annual Information Return of Foreign Trust With a U.S. Owner”);


(xxvi) Section 408(i) (relating to reports with respect to individual retirement plans on the recipient copies of Form 1099-R, “Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc.”);


(xxvii) Section 6047(d) (relating to reports by plan administrators on the recipient copies of Form 1099-R);


(xxviii) Section 6050S(d) (relating to returns relating to qualified tuition and related expenses, generally the borrower copy of Form 1098-E, “Student Loan Interest Statement,” or the student copy of Form 1098-T, “Tuition Statement”);


(xxix) Section 264(f)(5)(A)(iv) (relating to reporting with respect to certain life insurance and annuity contracts);


(xxx) Section 6050T (relating to returns relating to credit for health insurance costs of eligible individuals, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-H, “Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) Advance Payments”);


(xxxi) Section 6050U (relating to charges or payments for qualified long-term care insurance contracts under combined arrangements, generally the recipient copy of Form 1099-R); 


(xxxii) Section 6050W (relating to information returns with respect to payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions);


(xxxiii) Section 6055 (relating to information returns reporting minimum essential coverage);


(xxxiv) Section 6056 (relating to information returns reporting on offers of health insurance coverage by applicable large employer members);


(xxxv) Section 6035 (relating to basis information with respect to property acquired from a decedent, generally Schedule A of Form 8971, *Information Regarding Beneficiaries Acquiring Property from a Decedent*), other than an information return described in section 6724(d)(1)(D), whether an initial or supplemental payee statement;






(xxxvi) Section 6050Y(a)(2), 6050Y(b)(2), or 6050Y(c)(2) (relating to certain life insurance contract transactions);


(xxxvii) Section 6226(a)(2) (regarding statements relating to alternative to payment of imputed underpayment by a partnership) or under any other provision of this title that provides for the application of rules similar to section 6226(a)(2); or


(xxxviii) Section 6050Z (relating to reports relating to long-term care premium statements).






(3) *Other items.* The term *payee statement* also includes any form, statement, or schedule required to be furnished to the recipient of any amount from which tax is required to be deducted and withheld under chapters 3 or 4 of the Internal Revenue Code (or from which tax would be required to be so deducted and withheld but for an exemption under the Internal Revenue Code or any treaty obligation of the United States) (including but not limited to the recipient copy of Form 1042-S, “Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding,” or Form 8805, “Foreign Partner's Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax.”)




(4) *Filer.* For purposes of this section the term *filer* means a person that is required to furnish a *payee statement* as defined in paragraph (e)(2) and (3) of this section under the applicable information reporting section described in paragraph (e)(2) and (3) of this section.


(f) *Adjustment for inflation.* Each of the dollar amounts under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and paragraphs (a), (b), (d)(1), and (e) of section 6722 will be adjusted for inflation pursuant to section 6722(f).




(g) *Applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, this section applies with respect to payee statements required to be furnished on or after January 1, 2024. *See* 26 CFR 301.6722-1, as revised April 1, 2023, for rules applicable prior to January 1, 2024.


(2) *Exception.* Paragraph (e)(2)(xxxv) of this section applies with respect to payee statements required to be furnished after September 17, 2024.





---

[N] [T.D. 8386, 56 FR 67182, Dec. 30, 1991, as amended by T.D. 9394, 73 FR 23086, Apr. 29, 2008; T.D. 9496, 75 FR 49836, Aug. 16, 2010; T.D. 9504, 75 FR 64104, Oct. 18, 2010; T.D. 9660, 79 FR 13231, Mar. 10, 2014; T.D. 9984, 88 FR 87705, Dec. 19, 2023; T.D. 10000, 89 FR 56583, July 9, 2024, T.D. 9991, 89 FR 76386, Sept. 17, 2024]




