# § 97.413   Authorization of designated representative and alternate designated representative.

(a) Except as provided under § 97.415, each CSAPR NO_X_ Annual source, including all CSAPR NO_X_ Annual units at the source, shall have one and only one designated representative, with regard to all matters under the CSAPR NO_X_ Annual Trading Program.


(1) The designated representative shall be selected by an agreement binding on the owners and operators of the source and all CSAPR NO_X_ Annual units at the source and shall act in accordance with the certification statement in § 97.416(a)(4)(iii).


(2) Upon and after receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation under § 97.416:


(i) The designated representative shall be authorized and shall represent and, by his or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind each owner and operator of the source and each CSAPR NO_X_ Annual unit at the source in all matters pertaining to the CSAPR NO_X_ Annual Trading Program, notwithstanding any agreement between the designated representative and such owners and operators; and


(ii) The owners and operators of the source and each CSAPR NO_X_ Annual unit at the source shall be bound by any decision or order issued to the designated representative by the Administrator regarding the source or any such unit.


(b) Except as provided under § 97.415, each CSAPR NO_X_ Annual source may have one and only one alternate designated representative, who may act on behalf of the designated representative. The agreement by which the alternate designated representative is selected shall include a procedure for authorizing the alternate designated representative to act in lieu of the designated representative.


(1) The alternate designated representative shall be selected by an agreement binding on the owners and operators of the source and all CSAPR NO_X_ Annual units at the source and shall act in accordance with the certification statement in § 97.416(a)(4)(iii).


(2) Upon and after receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation under § 97.416,


(i) The alternate designated representative shall be authorized;


(ii) Any representation, action, inaction, or submission by the alternate designated representative shall be deemed to be a representation, action, inaction, or submission by the designated representative; and


(iii) The owners and operators of the source and each CSAPR NO_X_ Annual unit at the source shall be bound by any decision or order issued to the alternate designated representative by the Administrator regarding the source or any such unit.


(c) Except in this section, § 97.402, and §§ 97.414 through 97.418, whenever the term “designated representative” (as distinguished from the term “common designated representative”) is used in this subpart, the term shall be construed to include the designated representative or any alternate designated representative.



---

[N] [76 FR 48379, Aug. 8, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 74604, Oct. 26, 2016]




