# § 224.15   Special approval procedures.

(a) *General.* The following procedures govern consideration and action upon requests for special approval of alternative standards under § 224.103(e).


(b) *Petitions.* (1) Each petition for special approval of an alternative standard shall contain—


(i) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the primary person to be contacted with regard to the petition;


(ii) The alternative proposed, in detail, to be substituted for the particular requirements of this part; and


(iii) Appropriate data and analysis establishing that the alternative will provide at least an equivalent level of safety and meet the requirements of § 224.103(e).


(2) Each petition for special approval of an alternative standard shall be submitted to the Docket Clerk, Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Administration, RCC-10, Mail Stop 10, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(c) *Notice.* FRA will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ concerning each petition under paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Public comment.* FRA will provide a period of not less than 30 days from the date of publication of the notice in the _Federal Register_ during which any person may comment on the petition.


(1) Each comment shall set forth specifically the basis upon which it is made, and contain a concise statement of the interest of the commenter in the proceeding.


(2) Each comment shall be submitted to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations (M-30), West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, and shall contain the assigned docket number which appears in the _Federal Register_ for that proceeding. The form of such submission may be in written or electronic form consistent with the standards and requirements established by the Federal Docket Management System and posted on its Web site at *http://www.regulations.gov.*

(3) In the event FRA determines that it requires additional information to appropriately consider the petition, FRA will conduct a hearing on the petition in accordance with the procedures provided in § 211.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Disposition of petitions.* (1) If FRA finds that the petition complies with the requirements of this section and that the proposed alternative standard is acceptable or changes are justified, or both, the petition will be granted, normally within 90 days of its receipt. The Associate Administrator may determine the applicability of other technical requirements of this part when rendering a decision on the petition. If the petition is neither granted nor denied within 90 days, the petition remains pending for decision. FRA may attach special conditions to the approval of the petition. Following the approval of a petition, FRA may reopen consideration of the petition for cause stated.


(2) If FRA finds that the petition does not comply with the requirements of this section, or that the proposed alternative standard is not acceptable or that the proposed changes are not justified, or both, the petition will be denied, normally within 90 days of its receipt.


(3) When FRA grants or denies a petition, or reopens consideration of a petition, written notice is sent to the petitioner and other interested parties and a copy of the notice is placed in the electronic docket of the proceeding. 



---

[N] [70 FR 62176, Oct. 28, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 25173, May 27, 2009]




