# ยง 52.01-130   Installation.

(a) *Foundations.* (1) Plans showing details of proposed foundations and support for boilers and the proposed means of bracing boilers in the vessel must be submitted for approval to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in the district where the installation is being made.


(2) Provision must be made in foundations for expansion of the boilers when heated.


(3) Boilers must be provided with chocks to prevent movement in the event of collision unless a bolted or riveted construction satisfactorily provides for this contingency.


(b) *Protection of adjacent structure.* (1) Boilers must be so placed that all parts are readily accessible for inspection and repair.


(2) In vessels having a double bottom or other extensive surfaces directly below the boiler, the distance between such surface and a boiler must in no case be less than 18 inches at the lowest part.


(3) The pans of oil-burning, watertube boilers must be arranged to prevent oil from leaking into the bilges and must be lined with firebrick or other heat resisting material.


(4) The distance between a boiler and a compartment containing fuel oil must not be less than 24 inches.


(5) All oil-burning boilers must be provided with oiltight drip pans under the burners to prevent oil draining into the bilges.


(c) *Boiler uptakes.*

(1) Where dampers are installed in the uptakes or funnels, the arrangement must be such that it will not be possible to shut off the gas passages from the operating boilers.


(2) Each main power boiler and auxiliary boiler must be fitted with a separate gas passage.






