# ยง 110.197   Galveston Harbor, Bolivar Roads Channel, Texas.

(a)(1) *Anchorage area (A)*. The water bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(2) *Anchorage area (B)*. The water bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(3) *Anchorage area (C).* The water bounded by a line connecting the following points: 


(4) *Anchorage Area (A) East.* The waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The anchorage area is for the temporary use of vessels of all types, but especially for vessels awaiting weather and other conditions favorable to the resumption of their voyages. 


(2) Except when stress of weather makes sailing impractical or hazardous, vessels shall not anchor in anchorage areas (A), (B), or (C) for more than 48 hours unless expressly authorized by the Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston. Permission to anchor for longer periods may be obtained through Coast Guard Vessel Traffic Service Houston/Galveston on VHF-FM channels 12 (156.60 MHz) or 13 (156.65 MHz).


(3) No vessel with a draft of less than 22 feet may occupy anchorage (A) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port. 


(4) No vessel with a draft of less than 16 feet may anchor in anchorage (C) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston. 


(5) Vessels shall not anchor so as to obstruct the passage of other vessels proceeding to or from other anchorage spaces. 


(6) Anchors shall not be placed in the channel and no portion of the hull or rigging of any anchored vessel shall extend outside the limits of the anchorage area. 


(7) Vessels using spuds for anchors shall anchor as close to shore as practicable, having due regard for the provisions in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. 


(8) Fixed moorings, piles or stakes, and floats or buoys for marking anchorages or moorings in place, are prohibited. 


(9) Whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, the Captain of the Port, or his authorized representative, may direct the movement of any vessel anchored or moored within the anchorage areas.



---

[N] [CCGD8-85-21, 55 FR 11369, Mar. 28, 1990, as amended by CGD08-02-018, 68 FR 25497, May 13, 2003; USCG-2015-0549, 83 FR 18414, Apr. 27, 2018; USCG-2019-0028, 86 FR 7649, Feb. 1, 2021]




