# § 65.62   Process vent group determination.

(a) *Group status.* The owner or operator of a process vent shall determine the group status (i.e., Group 1, Group 2A, or Group 2B) for each process vent. Group 1 process vents require control, and Group 2A and 2B process vents do not. Group 2A process vents require parameter monitoring, and Group 2B process vents do not. The owner or operator shall report the group status of each process vent as specified in § 65.5(c)(2). 


(b) *Group 1.* A process vent is considered Group 1 if it meets at least one of the following specifications: 


(1) The owner or operator designates the process vent as Group 1. 


(2) At representative operating conditions expected to yield the lowest TRE index value for the process vent, the TRE index value is less than or equal to 1.0, the flow rate is greater than or equal to 0.011 standard cubic meter per minute (0.40 standard cubic foot per minute), and the concentration is greater than or equal to the applicable criterion in table 1 of this subpart. Procedures for determining the TRE index value, flow rate, and concentration are specified in § 65.64. 


(c) *Group 2A.* A process vent is considered Group 2A if, at representative operating conditions expected to yield the lowest TRE index value, it has a TRE index value of greater than 1.0 and less than or equal to 4.0, a flow rate of greater than or equal to 0.011 standard cubic meter per minute (0.40 standard cubic foot per minute), and a concentration greater than or equal to the applicable table 1 criterion. Procedures for determining the TRE index value, flow rate, and concentration are specified in § 65.64. 


(d) *Group 2B.* A process vent is considered Group 2B if, at representative operating conditions expected to yield the lowest TRE index value, it has a TRE index value of greater than 4.0; or a flow rate of less than 0.011 standard cubic meter per minute (0.40 standard cubic foot per minute); or a concentration less than the applicable criterion in table 1 of this subpart. Procedures for determining the TRE index value, flow rate, and concentration are specified in § 65.64. 




