# § 361.101   Aluminum import licensing.

(a) *In general.* (1) All imports of basic aluminum products are subject to the import licensing requirements imposed by the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce). These products are listed on the Aluminum Import Monitoring and Analysis (AIM) system website (*https://www.trade.gov/aluminum*). Registered users will be able to obtain aluminum import licenses on the AIM system website. This website contains two sections related to import licensing—the online registration system and the automatic aluminum import license issuance system. Aluminum import licenses must be provided to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP or Customs) as discussed in this section. Information gathered from these licenses will be aggregated and posted on the import monitoring section of the AIM system website.


(2) A single license may cover multiple products as long as certain information on the license (*e.g.,* importer, exporter, manufacturer and country of origin) remains the same. However, separate licenses for aluminum entered under a single entry will be required if the information differs. As a result, a single Customs entry may require more than one aluminum import license. The applicable license(s) must cover the total quantity of aluminum entered and should cover the same information provided on the Customs entry summary.


(b) *Entries for consumption.* All entries for consumption of covered aluminum products, other than the exceptions discussed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, will require an import license prior to the filing of Customs entry summary documents, or its electronic equivalent. The license number(s) must be reported on the entry summary (Customs Form 7501), or its electronic equivalent, at the time of filing. There is no requirement to present physical copies of the license forms at the time of entry summary. However, copies must be maintained in accordance with Customs' normal requirements. Entry summaries submitted without the required license number(s) will be considered incomplete and will be subject to liquidated damages for violation of the bond condition requiring timely completion of entry.


(c) *Foreign Trade Zone admissions.* All shipments of covered aluminum products into a foreign trade zone (FTZ), known as FTZ admissions, will require an import license prior to the filing of FTZ admission documents, or its electronic equivalents. The license number(s) must be reported on the application for FTZ admission and/or status designation (Customs Form 214) at the time of filing. There is no requirement to present physical copies of the license forms at the time of FTZ admission; however, copies must be maintained in accordance with Customs' normal requirements. FTZ admission documents submitted without the required license number(s) will not be considered complete and will be subject to liquidated damages for violation of the bond condition requiring timely completion of admission. The aluminum license for FTZ admission does not expire, and a further aluminum license will not be required for shipments of entries for consumption from zones into the commerce of the United States.


(d) *Informal entries.* No import license shall be required on informal entries of covered aluminum products, such as merchandise valued at less than $2,500. This exemption applies to informal entries only; imports of aluminum valued at less than $2,500 that are part of a formal entry will require a license. For additional information, refer to 19 CFR 143.21 through 143.28.


(e) *Other non-consumption entries.* Import licenses are not required on temporary importation bond (TIB) entries, transportation and exportation (T&E) entries or entries into a bonded warehouse. Covered aluminum products withdrawn for consumption from a bonded warehouse will require a license at the entry summary in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.




