# ยง 261.11   Records available to the public upon request.

(a) *Procedures for requesting records.* (1) Requesters are encouraged to submit requests electronically by filling out the required information at *https://www.federalreserve.gov/secure/forms/efoiaform.aspx.* Alternatively, requests may be submitted in writing to the Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Attn: FOIA Requests, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20551; or sent by facsimile to the Office of the Secretary, (202) 872-7565. Clearly mark the request FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST.


(2) A request may not be combined with any other request or with any matter presented to the Board such as a protest on a pending application or a comment on a public rulemaking. It may, however, be combined with a request for records under the Privacy Act pursuant to 12 CFR 261a.5(a) or a request for discretionary release of confidential supervisory information pursuant to ยง 261.23.


(b) *Contents of request.* A request must include:


(1) The requester's name, address, daytime telephone number, and an email address if available.


(2) A description of the records that enables the Board's staff to identify and produce the records with reasonable effort and without unduly burdening or significantly interfering with any of the Board's operations. Whenever possible, the request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record.


(3) A statement agreeing to pay the applicable fees. If the information requested is not intended for a commercial use (as defined in ยง 261.16(d)(1)) and the requester seeks a reduction or waiver of fees because he or she is either a representative of the news media, an educational institution, or a noncommercial scientific institution, the requester should include the information called for in ยง 261.16(g)(2).


(c) *Perfected and defective requests.* (1) The Board will consider the request to be perfected on the date the Office of the Secretary receives a request that contains all of the information required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(2) The Board need not accept or process a request that does not reasonably describe the records requested or that does not otherwise comply with the requirements of this section.


(3) The Board may return a defective request, specifying the deficiency. The requester may submit a corrected request, which will be treated as a new request.




