# ยง 65.63   Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Application, duration, and other general requirements.

(a) *Application.* Application for original approval of an aircraft dispatcher certification course or the renewal of approval of an aircraft dispatcher certification course under this part must be:


(1) Made in writing to the Administrator;


(2) Accompanied by two copies of the course outline required under ยง 65.61(b) of this part, for which approval is sought;


(3) Accompanied by a description of the equipment and facilities to be used; and


(4) Accompanied by a list of the instructors and their qualifications.


(b) *Duration.* Unless withdrawn or canceled, an approval of an aircraft dispatcher certification course of study expires:


(1) On the last day of the 24th month from the month the approval was issued; or


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, on the date that any change in ownership of the school occurs.


(c) *Renewal.* Application for renewal of an approved aircraft dispatcher certification course must be made within 30 days preceding the month the approval expires, provided the course operator meets the following requirements:


(1) At least 80 percent of the graduates from that aircraft dispatcher certification course, who applied for the practical test required by ยง 65.59 of this part, passed the practical test on their first attempt; and


(2) The aircraft dispatcher certification course continues to meet the requirements of this subpart for course approval.


(d) *Course revisions.* Requests for approval of a revision of the course outline, facilities, or equipment must be in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Proposed revisions of the course outline or the description of facilities and equipment must be submitted in a format that will allow an entire page or pages of the approved outline or description to be removed and replaced by any approved revision. The list of instructors may be revised at any time without request for approval, provided the minimum requirements of ยง 65.67 of this part are maintained and the Administrator is notified in writing.


(e) *Withdrawal or cancellation of approval.* Failure to continue to meet the requirements of this subpart for the approval or operation of an approved aircraft dispatcher certification course is grounds for withdrawal of approval of the course. A course operator may request cancellation of course approval by a letter to the Administrator. The operator must forward any records to the FAA as requested by the Administrator.


(f) *Change in ownership.* A change in ownership of a part 65, appendix A-approved course does not terminate that aircraft dispatcher certification course approval if, within 10 days after the date that any change in ownership of the school occurs:


(1) Application is made for an appropriate amendment to the approval; and


(2) No change in the facilities, personnel, or approved aircraft dispatcher certification course is involved.


(g) *Change in name or location.* A change in name or location of an approved aircraft dispatcher certification course does not invalidate the approval if, within 10 days after the date that any change in name or location occurs, the course operator of the part 65, appendix A-approved course notifies the Administrator, in writing, of the change.




