# ยง 180.517   Reporting and record retention requirements.

(a) *Certification and representation.* Each owner of a specification tank car must retain the certificate of construction (AAR Form 4-2) and related papers certifying that the manufacture of the specification tank car identified in the documents is in accordance with the applicable specification. The builder's signature on the certificate of construction and the marking of the tank car with the tank specification is the representation that all of the appropriate inspections and tests were successfully performed to qualify the tank for use. The owner must retain the documents throughout the period of ownership of the specification tank car and for one year thereafter. Upon a change of ownership, the applicable provisions prescribed in Section 1.3.15 of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) apply. The builder of the car or a facility performing work on the car may retain copies of relevant records.


(b) *Inspection and test reporting.* Each tank car that is inspected and tested as specified in ยง 180.509 must have a written report, in English, prepared according to this paragraph. Marking the tank car with the specification (or retaining the specification marking on the tank) is the representation that all of the appropriate inspections and tests were performed and the results meet the tank car owner's acceptance criteria to qualify the car for continued use. The report may be created and retained electronically, but, upon request by FRA for a copy of the report, it must be made available in common readable form. The owner must retain a copy of the inspection and test reports until successfully completing the next inspection and test of the same type. The inspection and test report must include the following:


(1) Type of inspection and test performed (a checklist is acceptable);


(2) The results of each inspection and test performed;


(3) Tank car reporting mark and number;


(4) Tank car specification;


(5) Inspection and test date (month and year);


(6) Location and description of defects found and method used to repair each defect;


(7) The name and address of the tank car facility and the name and signature of inspector; and


(8) The unique code (station stencil) identifying the facility.



---

[N] [Amdt. 180-2, 54 FR 25032, June 12, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 75765, Dec. 31, 2003; 77 FR 37991, June 25, 2012]




