# ยง 282.1   Legislative authority and notice requirements.

(a) *Legislative authority.* Section 17 of the Act authorizes the Secretary to conduct demonstration, research, and evaluation projects. In conducting such projects, the Secretary may waive all or part of the requirements of the Act and implementing regulations necessary to conduct such projects, except that no project, other than a project involving the payment of the average value of allotments by household size in the form of cash to eligible households or a project conducted to test improved consistency or coordination between the SNAP employment and training program and the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills program under Title IV of the Social Security Act, may be undertaken which would lower or further restrict the established income and resource standards or benefit levels. 


(b) *Notices.* At least 30 days prior to the initiation of a demonstration project, FNS shall publish a General Notice in the _Federal Register_ if the demonstration project will likely have a significant impact on the public. The notice shall set forth the specific operational procedures and shall explain the basis and purpose of the demonstration project. If significant comments are received in response to this General Notice, the Department will take such action as may be appropriate prior to implementing the project. If the operational procedures contained in the General Notice described above are significantly changed because of comments, an amended General Notice will be published in the _Federal Register_ at least 30 days prior to the initiation of the demonstration project, except where good cause exists supporting a shorter effective date. The explanation for the determination of good cause will be published with the amended General Notice. The amended General Notice will also explain the basis and purpose of the change. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 371, 61 FR 60012, Nov. 26, 1996]




