# § 404.451   Penalty deductions for failure to report within prescribed time limit noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child.

(a) *Penalty for failure to report.* If an individual (or the person receiving benefits on his behalf) fails to comply with the reporting obligations of § 404.450 within the time specified in § 404.450 and it is found that good cause for such failure does not exist (see § 404.454), a penalty deduction is made from the individual's benefits in addition to the deduction described in § 404.417 (relating to noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States) or § 404.421 (relating to failure to have care of a child).


(b) *Determining amount of penalty deduction.* The amount of the penalty deduction for failure to report noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child within the prescribed time is determined as follows:


(1) *First failure to make timely report.* The penalty deduction for the first failure to make a timely report is an amount equal to the individual's benefit or benefits for the first month for which the deduction event was not reported timely.


(2) *Second failure to make timely report.* The penalty deduction for the second failure to make a timely report is an amount equal to twice the amount of the individual's benefit or benefits for the first month for which the deduction event in the second failure period was not reported timely.


(3) *Subsequent failures to make timely reports.* The penalty deduction for the third or subsequent failure to file a timely report is an amount equal to three times the amount of the individual's benefit or benefits for the first month for which the deduction event in the third failure period was not reported timely.


(c) *Determining whether a failure to file a timely report is first, second, third, or subsequent failure*—(1) *Failure period.* A failure period runs from the date of one delinquent report (but initially starting with the date of entitlement to monthly benefits) to the date of the next succeeding delinquent report, excluding the date of the earlier report and including the date of the later report. The failure period includes each month for which succeeding delinquent report, excluding a report becomes overdue during a failure period, but it does not include any month for which a report is not yet overdue on the ending date of such period. If *good cause* (see § 404.454) is found for the entire period, the period is not regarded as a failure period.


(2) *First failure.* When no penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has previously been imposed against the beneficiary for failure to report noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or for failure to report not having care of a child, the earliest month in the first failure period for which a report is delinquent and for which *good cause* (see § 404.454) for failure to make the required report is not found is considered to be the first failure.


(3) *Second failure.* After one penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has been imposed against the beneficiary, the first month for which a report is delinquent in the second failure period is considered to be the second failure.


(4) *Third and subsequent failures.* After a second penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has been imposed against the beneficiary, the first month for which a report is delinquent in the third failure period is considered to be the third failure. Subsequent failures will be determined in the same manner.


(5) *Penalty deductions imposed under § 404.453 not considered.* A failure to make a timely report of earnings as required by § 404.452 for which a penalty deduction is imposed under § 404.453 is not counted as a failure to report in determining the first or subsequent failure to report noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child.


(d) *Limitation on amount of penalty deduction.* Notwithstanding the provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of the penalty deduction imposed for failure to make a timely report of noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or for failure to report not having care of a child may not exceed the number of months in that failure period for which the individual received and accepted a benefit and for which a deduction is imposed by reason of his noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or failure to have care of a child. (See § 404.458 for other limitations on the amount of the penalty deduction.)



---

[N] [38 FR 3596, Feb. 8, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 9430, Apr. 16, 1973]




