# § 63.9307   What are my continuous emissions monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) You must install, operate, and maintain each CEMS to monitor carbon monoxide (CO) or total hydrocarbons (THC) and oxygen (O_2_) at the outlet of the exhaust system of the engine test cell/stand or at the outlet of the emission control device. 


(b) To comply with the CO or THC percent reduction emission limitation, you may install, operate, and maintain a CEMS to monitor CO or THC and O_2_ at both the inlet and the outlet of the emission control device. 


(c) To comply with either emission limitations, the CEMS must be installed and operated according to the requirements described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) You must install, operate, and maintain each CEMS according to the applicable Performance Specification (PS) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B (PS- 3, PS-4A, or PS-8).


(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS according to the requirements in 40 CFR 63.8 and according to PS-3 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, using Reference Method 3A or 3B for the O_2_ CEMS, and according to PS-4A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, using Reference Method 10 or 10B for the CO CEMS, and according to PS-8 of CFR part 60, appendix B, using Reference Method 25A for the THC CEMS. If the fuel used in the engines being tested is natural gas, you may use ASTM D 6522-00, Standard Test Method for Determination of Nitrogen Oxides, Carbon Monoxide and Oxygen Concentrations in Emissions from Natural Gas Fired Reciprocating Engines, Combustion Turbines, Boilers, and Process Heaters Using Portable Analyzers (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). As an alternative to Method 3B, you may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus],” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(ii), each CEMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. You must have at least two data points, each representing a different 15-minute period within the same hour, to have a valid hour of data. 


(4) All CEMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2) and recorded as CO or THC as carbon concentration in parts per million by volume, dry basis (ppmvd), corrected to 15 percent O_2_ content.


(d) If you have CEMS that are subject to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, you must properly maintain and operate the monitors continuously according to the requirements described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) *Proper maintenance.* You must maintain the monitoring equipment at all times that the engine test cell/stand is operating, including but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment. 


(2) *Continued operation.* You must operate your CEMS according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) You must conduct all monitoring in continuous operation at all times that the engine test cell/stand is operating, except for, as applicable, monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration drift checks and required zero and high-level adjustments). Quality assurance or control activities must be performed according to procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. 


(ii) Data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, and required quality assurance or control activities must not be used for purposes of calculating data averages. You must use all of the data collected from all other periods in assessing compliance. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring equipment to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements. 



---

[N] [68 FR 28785, May 27, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 34345, June 3, 2020]




