# § 501.729   Sanctions.

(a) *Contemptuous conduct*—(1) *Subject to exclusion or suspension.* Contemptuous conduct by any person before an Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee during any proceeding, including any conference, shall be grounds for the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee to:


(i) Exclude that person from such hearing or conference, or any portion thereof; and/or


(ii) If a representative, summarily suspend that person from representing others in the proceeding in which such conduct occurred for the duration, or any portion, of the proceeding.


(2) *Adjournment.* Upon motion by a party represented by a representative subject to an order of exclusion or suspension, an adjournment shall be granted to allow the retention of a new representative. In determining the length of an adjournment, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee shall consider, in addition to the factors set forth in § 501.737, the availability of another representative for the party or, if the representative was a counsel, of other members of a suspended counsel's firm.


(b) *Deficient filings; leave to cure deficiencies.* The Administrative Law Judge, or the Secretary's designee in the case of a request for review, may in his or her discretion, reject, in whole or in part, any filing that fails to comply with any requirements of this subpart or of any order issued in the proceeding in which the filing was made. Any such filings shall not be part of the record. The Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee may direct a party to cure any deficiencies and to resubmit the filing within a fixed time period.


(c) *Failure to make required filing or to cure deficient filing.* The Administrative Law Judge (or the Secretary's designee during review proceedings) may enter a default pursuant to § 501.716, dismiss the case, decide the particular matter at issue against that person, or prohibit the introduction of evidence or exclude testimony concerning that matter if a person fails:


(1) To make a filing required under this subpart; or


(2) To cure a deficient filing within the time specified by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Failure to make required filing or to cure deficient filing in the case of a request for review.* The Secretary's designee, in any case of a request for review, may decide the issue against that person, or prohibit the introduction of evidence or exclude testimony concerning that matter if a person fails:


(1) To make a filing required under this subpart; or


(2) To cure a deficient filing within the time specified by the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.




