# § 304.24   Appeals from denials of requests for access to records.

(a) *Appeals.* If you are dissatisfied with the response to your request, you may appeal an adverse determination denying your request, in any respect, to the Chairman of the agency. You must make your appeal in writing, by e-mail or letter, and it must be received by the agency within 60 days of the date of the denial of your request. Your appeal letter should provide reasons and supporting information as to why the initial determination was incorrect. The appeal should clearly identify the particular determination (including the assigned request number, if known) that you are appealing. For the quickest possible handling of a mail request, you should mark your appeal letter and the envelope “Privacy Act Appeal.” The Chairman of the agency or his or her designee will act on the appeal, except that an appeal ordinarily will not be acted on if the request becomes a matter of FOIA or Privacy Act litigation.


(b) *Responses to appeals.* The decision on your appeal will be made in writing. A decision affirming an adverse determination in whole or in part will include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the affirmance, including any exemption applied, and will inform you of the Privacy Act provisions for court review of the decision. If the adverse determination is reversed or modified on appeal in whole or in part, then you will be notified in a written decision and your request will be reprocessed in accordance with that appeal decision.


(c) *When appeal is required.* As a general rule, if you wish to seek review by a court of any adverse determination or denial of a request, you must first appeal it under this section.




