# ยง 21.254   Supportive services.

(a) *General.* Supportive services which may be provided during a period or program of employment services include a broad range of medical treatment, care and services, supplies, license and other fees, special services, including services to the blind and deaf, transportation assistance, services to the veteran's family, and other appropriate services, subject to the limitations provided in VA regulations governing the provisions of these services under Chapter 31.


(b) *Exclusions.* The following benefits may not be provided to the veteran by VA during a period or program of employment services:


(1) Subsistence allowance, or payment of an allowance at the educational assistance rate paid under Chapter 30 for similar training;


(2) Education and training services, other than brief courses, such as review courses necessary for licensure;


(3) Revolving Fund Loan; and


(4) Work-study allowance.


(c) *Individuals with service-connected disability(ies) trained for self-employment under a State rehabilitation agency.* An individual with service-connected disability(ies) who has trained for self-employment under a State rehabilitation agency may be provided supplemental equipment and initial stocks and supplies similar to the materials supplied under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 to individuals with the most severe service-connected disability(ies) who require self-employment as defined in ยง 21.257(b) if VA determines that the following conditions are met:


(1) The individual is eligible for employment assistance under the provisions of ยง 21.47;


(2) Evidence of record indicates that the individual has successfully completed training for a self-employment program under a State rehabilitation agency;


(3) No other non-VA sources of assistance are known to be available for the individual to complete his or her self-employment program; and


(4) The individual meets the requirements of the definition in ยง 21.257(b).



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 4283, Jan. 30, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992; 62 FR 17709, Apr. 11, 1997; 75 FR 3169, Jan. 20, 2010]




