# § 52i.13   Other HHS policies and regulations that apply.

Several other regulations and policies apply to grants under this part. These include, but are not limited to:


(a) 2 CFR part 376—HHS Nonprocurement debarment and suspension.


(b) 42 CFR part 50, subpart D—Public Health Service grant appeals procedure.


(c) 42 CFR part 93—Public Health Service policies on research misconduct.


(d) 45 CFR part 16—Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.


(e) 45 CFR part 46—Protection of human subjects.


(f) 45 CFR part 75—Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for HHS awards.


(g) 45 CFR part 80—Nondiscrimination under programs receiving federal assistance through the Department of Health and Human Services effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.


(h) 45 CFR part 81—Practice and procedure for hearings under part 80 of this chapter.


(i) 2 CFR part 382—Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance).


(j) 45 CFR part 84—Nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance.


(k) 45 CFR part 86—Nondiscrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance.


(l) 45 CFR part 91—Nondiscrimination on the basis of age in programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance from HHS.


(m) 45 CFR part 93—New restrictions on lobbying.


(n) NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant for Synthetic Nucleic Acid Molecules at *https://osp.od.nih.gov/wp-content/uploads/NIH_Guidelines.pdf.* Further information may be obtained from the NIH Office of Science Policy (OSP) via email at *NIHguidelines@od.nih.gov* or the OSP website at *https://osp.od.nih.gov/.*

(o) NIH Policy and Guidelines on the Inclusion of Women and Minorities as Subjects in Clinical Research at *https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-02-001.html,* Amendment: NIH Policy and Guidelines on the Inclusion of Women and Minorities as Subjects in Clinical Research at *https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-18-014.html,* and the revised NIH Policy and Guidelines on the Inclusion of Individuals Across the Lifespan as Participants in Research Involving Human Subjects at *https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-18-116.html.* Further information may be obtained from the NIH Office of Research on Women's Health via email at *orwhinfo@nih.gov.*

(p) NIH Grants Policy Statement. The current version is located on the NIH website at *https://grants.nih.gov/policy/nihgps/index.htm.* [Note: this policy is subject to change and interested persons should contact the Division of Grants Policy in the Office of Policy for Extramural Research Administration (OPERA), Office of Extramural Research, NIH, via email at *GrantsPolicy@nih.gov*].


(q) Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare, NIH (Revised 2015). [*Note:* this policy is subject to change and interested persons should contact the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare, NIH, 6700B Rockledge Drive, Suite 2500, MSC 6910, Bethesda, MD 20892-6910 (telephone 301-496-7163, not a toll-free number), to obtain references to the current version and any amendments.


Information may be obtained also by emailing *olaw@mail.nih.gov* or via the OLAW website at *https://olaw.nih.gov*].











---

[N] [80 FR 53744, Sept. 8, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 96123, Dec. 4, 2024]








