# § 721.8965   1

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1*H*-pyrole-2, 5-dione, 1-(2,4,6-tribromophenyl)-, (PMN No. P-90-159) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(2)(iii) for employees likely to have ocular exposure, (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent by weight or volume), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) concentration set at 0.1 percent by weight or volume, (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix) (corrosion to the eyes), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use chemical goggles), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii) (except the dewatering step during polymerization of acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (a), (c), (f), (k) (any use in a system other than as flame retardant in styrenic, polyolefin elastomer, and thermoset systems), (l), and (q). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (b)(1) (by industrial incinerator), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). Dispose of the PMN substance by industrial incinerator or landfill. 


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (b)(1) and (c)(1). Section 721.90 (c)(1) does not apply to releases of the PMN substance during the dewatering step of the polymerization reactions from use. 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (d), and (f) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 32240, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]




