# § 1.48-2   New section 38 property.

(a) *In general.* Section 48(b) defines “new section 38 property” as section 38 property— 


(1) The construction, reconstruction, or erection of which is completed by the taxpayer after December 31, 1961, or 


(2) Which is acquired by the taxpayer after December 31, 1961, provided that the original use of such property commences with the taxpayer and commences after such date. 


(b) *Special rules for determining date of acquisition, original use, and basis attributable to construction, reconstruction, or erection.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the principles set forth in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of § 1.167(c)-1 shall be applied. Thus, for example, the following rules are applicable: 


(1) Property is considered as constructed, reconstructed, or erected by the taxpayer if the work is done for him in accordance with his specifications. 


(2) The portion of the basis of property attributable to construction, reconstruction, or erection after December 31, 1961, consists of all costs of construction, reconstruction, or erection allocable to the period after December 31, 1961, including the cost or other basis of materials entering into such work (but not including, in the case of reconstruction of property, the adjusted basis of the reconstructed property as of the time such reconstruction is commenced). 


(3) It is not necessary that materials entering into construction, reconstruction, or erection be acquired after December 31, 1961, or that they be new in use. 


(4) If construction or erection by the taxpayer began after December 31, 1961, the entire cost or other basis of such construction or erection may be taken into account as the basis of new section 38 property. 


(5) Construction, reconstruction, or erection by the taxpayer begins when physical work is started on such construction, reconstruction, or erection. 


(6) Property shall be deemed to be acquired when reduced to physical possession, or control. 


(7) The term “original use” means the first use to which the property is put, whether or not such use corresponds to the use of such property by the taxpayer. For example, a reconditioned or rebuilt machine acquired by the taxpayer will not be treated as being put to original use by the taxpayer. The question of whether property is reconditioned or rebuilt property is a question of fact. Property will not be treated as reconditioned or rebuilt merely because it contains some used parts. 


(c) *Examples.* This section may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(d) *Special rule for qualified rehabilitated buildings.* Notwithstanding the rules in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, that portion of the basis of a qualified rehabilitated building attributable to qualified rehabilitation expenditures is treated as new section 38 property. See section 48(a)(1)(E) and (g), and § 1.48-11.



---

[N] [T.D. 6731, 29 FR 6076, May 8, 1964, as amended by T.D. 8031, 50 FR 26698, June 28, 1985]




