# § 49.20   Requirements for all coal mines.

(a) The operator of each underground coal mine shall make available two certified mine rescue teams whose members—


(1) Are familiar with the operations of the mine, and


(2) Participate at least annually in two local mine rescue contests.


(b) Team members shall meet the following:


(1) *Mine-site team.* Members who work at the mine and participate in mine rescue training at the mine at least annually at large mines and at least semi-annually at small mines.


(2) *Composite team.* A mine rescue team that covers multiple mines and whose members—


(i) Include at least two members from each covered large mine and at least one member from each covered small mine,


(ii) Are knowledgeable about the operations and ventilation of each covered underground coal mine, and


(iii) Participate in mine rescue training at each covered mine at least semi-annually.


(3) *Contract team.* A mine rescue team that is provided by an arrangement with another coal mine or with a third party and whose members—


(i) Are knowledgeable about the operations and ventilation of each covered underground coal mine, and


(ii) Participate in mine rescue training at each covered large mine at least quarterly and at each covered small mine at least semi-annually.


(4) *State-sponsored team.* Members who are state employees and participate in mine rescue training at each covered mine at least annually at large mines and at least semi-annually at small mines.


(c) For the purpose of mine rescue team membership, a member employed by an operator of multiple mines is considered to be an employee of each mine at which the member regularly works.


(d) For the purpose of mine rescue team training at each covered mine, a portion of the training must be conducted underground.



---

[N] [73 FR 7648, Feb. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 28609, June 17, 2009]




