# § 147.2100   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of South Dakota, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the South Dakota Department of Water and Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on October 24, 1984; the effective date of this program is December 7, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of South Dakota. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective December 7, 1984.


(1) South Dakota Codified Laws, sections 45-9-2, 45-9-4, 45-9-11, 45-9-13, 45-9-14, 45-9-15 (1983).


(2) Administrative Rules of South Dakota, sections 74:10:02 through 74:10:07, 74:10:09, and 74:10:11 published by the South Dakota Code Commission, as revised through October 4, 1987. 


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:


(1) South Dakota Codified Laws, Chapter 45-9 (sections not cited above) (1983); 1-26 (1981).


(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VIII and the South Dakota Department of Water and Natural Resources, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 18, 1984.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Underground Injection Control Program for Class II Wells: Attorney General's Statement,” signed by Mark V. Meierhery, Attorney General, South Dakota, on January 16, 1984.


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [50 FR 7061, Feb. 20, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]




