# ยง 800.302   Transactions that are not covered control transactions.

Transactions that are not covered control transactions include:


(a) A stock split or pro rata stock dividend that does not involve a change in control. See the example in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(b) A transaction that results in a foreign person holding 10 percent or less of the outstanding voting interest in a U.S. business (regardless of the dollar value of the interest so acquired), but only if the transaction is solely for the purpose of passive investment. (See ยง 800.243 and the examples in paragraphs (f)(2) through (4) of this section.)


(c) An acquisition of any part of an entity or of assets, if such part of an entity or assets do not constitute a U.S. business. (See ยง 800.301(c) and the examples in paragraphs (f)(5) through (10) of this section.)


(d) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.


(e) An acquisition pursuant to a condition in a contract of insurance relating to fidelity, surety, or casualty obligations if the contract was made by an insurer in the ordinary course of business.


(f) Examples:


(1) *Example 1.* Corporation A, a foreign person, holds 10,000 shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered control transaction.


(2) *Example 2.* In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered control transaction.


(3) *Example 3.* Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires nine percent of the voting shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A also negotiates contractual rights that give it the power to control important matters of Corporation X. The acquisition by Corporation A of the voting shares of Corporation X is not solely for the purpose of passive investment and is a covered control transaction.


(4) *Example 4.* Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires five percent of the voting shares in Corporation B, a U.S. business. In addition to the securities, Corporation A obtains the right to appoint one out of eleven seats on Corporation B's board of directors. The acquisition by Corporation A of Corporation B's securities is not solely for the purpose of passive investment. Whether the transaction is a covered control transaction would depend on whether Corporation A obtains control of Corporation B as a result of the transaction. See ยง 800.303 for transactions that are covered investments.


(5) *Example 5.* Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires, from separate U.S. nationals products held in inventory, land, and machinery for export. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and this acquisition is not a covered control transaction.


(6) *Example 6.* Corporation X, a U.S. business, produces armored personnel carriers in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire the annual production of those carriers from Corporation X under a long-term contract. Assuming no other relevant facts, this transaction is not a covered control transaction.


(7) *Example 7.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X, a U.S. business, has developed important technology in connection with the production of armored personnel carriers. Corporation A seeks to negotiate an agreement under which it would be licensed to manufacture using that technology. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither the proposed acquisition of technology pursuant to that license agreement, nor the actual acquisition, is a covered control transaction.


(8) *Example 8.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A enters into a contractual arrangement to acquire the entire armored personnel carrier business operations of Corporation X, including production facilities, customer lists, technology, and staff, which together constitute a U.S. business. This transaction is a covered control transaction.


(9) *Example 9.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X suspended all activities of its armored personnel carrier business a year ago and currently is in bankruptcy proceedings. Existing equipment provided by Corporation X is being serviced by another company, which purchased the service contracts from Corporation X. The business's production facilities are idle but still in working condition, some of its key former employees have agreed to return if the business is resuscitated, and its technology and customer and vendor lists are still current. Corporation X's personnel carrier business constitutes a U.S. business, and its purchase by Corporation A is a covered control transaction.


(10) *Example 10.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A and Corporation X establish a joint venture that will be controlled by Corporation A to manufacture armored personnel carriers outside the United States, and Corporation X contributes assets constituting a U.S. business, including intellectual property and other intangible assets required to manufacture the armored personnel carriers, to the joint venture. Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business to the joint venture, and the establishment of the joint venture is a covered control transaction.


(11) *Example 11.* Corporation A, a foreign person, holds a 10 percent ownership interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A and Corporation X enter into a contractual arrangement pursuant to which Corporation A gains the right to purchase an additional interest in Corporation X to prevent the dilution of Corporation A's *pro rata* interest in Corporation X in the event that Corporation X issues additional instruments conveying interests in Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional rights or ownership interest in Corporation X pursuant to the contractual arrangement. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered control transaction.




