# § 800.217   Equipment that shall be tested.

(a) *General.* Testing of equipment and prototype equipment described in this section shall be performed in accordance with the instructions.


(b) *Inspection equipment.* Each unit of equipment used in the official sampling, testing, or grading of grain, or in monitoring the official inspection of grain, shall be examined to determine whether the equipment is functioning in an approved manner. In addition, each unit of equipment for which official performance requirements have been established shall be tested for accuracy. For the purpose of this paragraph, diverter-type mechanical samplers used in obtaining warehouseman's samples shall be considered to be official inspection equipment used under the Act.


(c) *Weighing equipment.* Each unit of equipment used in the Class X or Class Y weighing of grain or in monitoring the Class X or Class Y weighing of grain, each related grain handling system, and each related computer system shall be examined to determine whether it is functioning in an approved manner. In addition, each unit of equipment for which official performance requirements have been established shall be tested for accuracy.


(d) *Prototype equipment*—(1) *At request of interested party.* Upon request of a financially interested party and with the concurrence of the Administrator, prototype grain inspection or weighing equipment may be tested by the Service for official use.


(2) *Determination by Service.* Upon a determination of need, the Service may develop, contract for, or purchase and test prototype grain inspection or weighing equipment for official use.




