# ยง 570.65   Occupations involving the operation of circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs (Order 14).

(a) *Findings and declaration of fact.* The following occupations are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age:


(1) The occupations of operator of or helper on the following power-driven fixed or portable machines except machines equipped with full automatic feed and ejection:


(i) Circular saws.


(ii) Band saws.


(iii) Guillotine shears.


(2) The occupations of operator of or helper on the following power-driven fixed or portable machines:


(i) Chain saws.


(ii) Reciprocating saws.


(iii) Wood chippers.


(iv) Abrasive cutting discs.


(3) The occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Abrasive cutting disc* shall mean a machine equipped with a disc embedded with abrasive materials used for cutting materials.


*Band saw* shall mean a machine equipped with an endless steel band having a continuous series of notches or teeth, running over wheels or pulleys, and used for sawing materials.


*Chain saw* shall mean a machine that has teeth linked together to form an endless chain used for cutting materials.


*Circular saw* shall mean a machine equipped with a thin steel disc having a continuous series of notches or teeth on the periphery, mounted on shafting, and used for sawing materials.


*Guillotine shear* shall mean a machine equipped with a moveable blade operated vertically and used to shear materials. The term shall not include other types of shearing machines, using a different form of shearing action, such as alligator shears or circular shears.


*Helper* shall mean a person who assists in the operation of a machine covered by this section by helping place materials into or remove them from the machine.


*Operator* shall mean a person who operates a machine covered by this section by performing such functions as starting or stopping the machine, placing materials into or removing them from the machine, or any other functions directly involved in operation of the machine.


*Reciprocating saw* shall mean a machine equipped with a moving blade that alternately changes direction on a linear cutting axis used for sawing materials.


*Wood chipper* shall mean a machine equipped with a feed mechanism, knives mounted on a rotating chipper disc or drum, and a power plant used to reduce to chips or shred such materials as tree branches, trunk segments, landscape waste, and other materials.


(c) *Exemptions.* This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in ยง 570.50 (b) and (c).



---

[N] [25 FR 9849, Oct. 14, 1960. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3450, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28457, May 20, 2010]




