# § 40.31   Liability for special tax.

(a) *Manufacturer of tobacco products.* Every manufacturer of tobacco products shall pay a special (occupational) tax at a rate specified by § 40.32. The tax shall be paid on or before the date of commencing the business of manufacturing tobacco products, and thereafter every year on or before July 1. On commencing business, the tax shall be computed from the first day of the month in which liability is incurred, through the following June 30. Thereafter, the tax shall be computed for the entire year (July 1 through June 30).


(b) [Reserved] 


(c) *Each place of business taxable.* A manufacturer of tobacco products incurs special tax liability at each place of business in which an occupation subject to special tax is conducted. A place of business means the entire office, plant or area of the business in any one location under the same proprietorship. Passageways, streets, highways, rail crossings, waterways, or partitions dividing the premises are not sufficient separation to require additional special tax, if the divisions of the premises are otherwise contiguous.


(d) *Payment of tax.* Special tax must be paid by return. The prescribed return is TTB Form 5630.5t, Special Tax Registration and Return—Tobacco. Special tax returns, with payment of tax, must be filed with TTB in accordance with the instructions on the form and the requirements of subpart D of part 46 of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-271, 53 FR 17560, May 17, 1988, as amended by T.D. TTB-79, 74 FR 37419, July 28, 2009; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87947, Nov. 6, 2024]






