# ยง 3.31   Deficiencies, inaccuracies, and changes, to be reported.

(a)(1) Each applicant or registrant as a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer, major swap participant, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, floor trader that is a non-natural person or leverage transaction merchant shall, in accordance with the instructions thereto, promptly correct any deficiency or inaccuracy in Form 7-R or Form 8-R that no longer renders accurate and current the information contained therein, with the exception of any change that requires withdrawal from registration under ยง 3.33 or any change resulting from an exchange disciplinary or access denial action. Each such correction shall be prepared and filed in accordance with the instructions thereto.


(2) Where a registrant has changed its form of organization to or from a sole proprietorship, the registrant must request withdrawal from registration in accordance with ยง 3.33.


(3) Where any person becomes a principal of an applicant or registrant subsequent to the filing of the applicant's or registrant's current Form 7-R:


(i) If the new principal is not a natural person, the registrant shall update such Form 7-R.


(ii) If the new principal is a natural person, the registrant shall file a Form 8-R, completed in accordance with the instructions thereto and executed by such person who is a principal of the registrant and who was not listed on the registrant's initial application for registration or any amendment thereto.


(b) Each applicant or registrant as a floor broker, floor trader or associated person, and each principal of a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer, major swap participant, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, floor trader that is a non-natural person, or leverage transaction merchant must, in accordance with the instructions thereto, promptly correct any deficiency or inaccuracy in the Form 8-R or supplemental statement thereto.


(c)(1) After the filing of a Form 8-R or updating a Form 8-R by or on behalf of any person for the purpose of permitting that person to be an associated person of a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, or a leverage transaction merchant, that futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker or leverage transaction merchant must, within thirty days after the occurrence of either of the following, file a notice thereof with the National Futures Association indicating:


(i) The failure of that person to become associated with the futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, or leverage transaction merchant, and the reasons therefor; or


(ii) The termination of the association of the associated person with the futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, or leverage transaction merchant, and the reasons therefor.


(2) Each person registered as, or applying for registration as, a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer, major swap participant, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, floor trader that is a non-natural person, or leverage transaction merchant must, within thirty days after the termination of the affiliation of a principal with the registrant or applicant, file a notice thereof with the National Futures Association.


(3) Any notice required by paragraph (c) of this section must be filed on Form 8-T or on a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration.


(d) Each contract market or swap execution facility that has granted trading privileges to a person who is registered, has received a temporary license, or has applied for registration as a floor broker or floor trader, must notify the National Futures Association within sixty days after such person has ceased having trading privileges on such contract market or swap execution facility.



---

[N] [45 FR 80491, Dec. 5, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 27551, June 25, 1982; 48 FR 35297, Aug. 3, 1983; 49 FR 5525, Feb. 13, 1984; 49 FR 39533, Oct. 9, 1984; 51 FR 34460, Sept. 29, 1986; 53 FR 8433, Mar. 15, 1988; 54 FR 19558, May 8, 1989; 58 FR 19592, Apr. 15, 1993; 66 FR 53518, Oct. 23, 2001; 67 FR 38875, June 6, 2002; 72 FR 63104, Nov. 8, 2007; 75 FR 55426, Sept. 10, 2010; 77 FR 2628, Jan. 19, 2012; 77 FR 51907, Aug. 28, 2012; 83 FR 1545, Jan. 12, 2018]




