# § 307.12   Revolving Loan Fund Income requirements during the Revolving Phase; payments on defaulted and written off Revolving Loan Fund loans; Voluntarily Contributed Capital.

(a) *Revolving Loan Fund Income requirements during the Revolving Phase.* During the Revolving Phase, RLF Income must be placed into the RLF Capital Base for the purpose of making loans or paying for eligible and reasonable administrative costs associated with the RLF's operations. RLF Income may fund administrative costs, provided:


(1) Such RLF Income is earned and the administrative costs are accrued in the same fiscal year of the RLF Recipient;


(2) RLF Income earned, but not used for administrative costs during the same fiscal year of the RLF Recipient is made available for lending activities;


(3) RLF Income shall not be withdrawn from the RLF Capital Base in a subsequent fiscal year for any purpose other than lending without the prior written consent of EDA; and


(4) An RLF Recipient shall not use funds in excess of RLF Income for administrative costs unless directed otherwise in writing by EDA. In accordance with EDA's RLF Risk Analysis System, RLF Recipients are expected to keep administrative costs to a minimum in order to maintain the RLF Capital Base. The percentage of RLF Income used for administrative expenses will be one of the measures used in EDA's RLF Risk Analysis System to evaluate RLF Recipients. *See also* § 307.16.


(b) *Compliance guidance.* When charging costs against RLF Income, RLF Recipients must comply with applicable Federal uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements as detailed in this paragraph (b) and in the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant.


(1) *For RLF Grants made on or after December 26, 2014.* For RLFs awarded on or after December 26, 2014 or for RLFs that have received one or more Recapitalization Grants on or after December 26, 2014, the RLF Recipient must comply with the administrative and cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 (“Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards”).


(2) *For RLF Grants made before December 26, 2014.* For RLFs awarded before December 26, 2014, unless otherwise indicated in the terms of the Grant, the RLF Recipient must comply with the following cost principles:


(i) 2 CFR part 225 (OMB Circular A-87 for State, local, and Indian tribal governments),


(ii) 2 CFR part 230 (OMB Circular A-122 for non-profit organizations other than institutions of higher education, hospitals or organizations named in OMB Circular A-122 as not subject to such Circular), and


(iii) 2 CFR part 220 (OMB Circular A-21 for educational institutions).


(3) *For all RLF Grants.* For all RLF Grants, regardless of when they were awarded, the audit requirements set out as subpart F to 2 CFR part 200 apply to audits of the RLF Recipient's fiscal years beginning on or after December 26, 2014. In addition, the Compliance Supplement, which is appendix XI to 2 CFR part 200, applies as appropriate.


(c) *Priority of payments on defaulted and written off RLF loans.* When an RLF Recipient receives proceeds on a defaulted or written off RLF loan that is not subject to liquidation pursuant to § 307.21, such proceeds shall be applied in the following order of priority:


(1) *First,* towards any costs of collection;


(2) *Second,* towards outstanding penalties and fees;


(3) *Third*, towards any accrued interest to the extent due and payable; and


(4) *Fourth*, towards any outstanding principal balance. 


(d) *Voluntarily Contributed Capital.* An RLF Recipient that wishes to inject additional capital into the RLF Capital Base to augment the amount of resources available to lend must submit a written request that specifies the source of the funds to be added. Once an RLF Recipient elects to commit Voluntarily Contributed Capital and upon approval by EDA, the Voluntarily Contributed Capital becomes an irrevocable part of the RLF Capital Base and may not be subsequently withdrawn or separated from the RLF.



---

[N] [71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76134, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57056, Dec. 1, 2017]




