# § 10.173   Evidence of country of origin.

(a) *Shipments covered by a formal entry*—(1) *Merchandise not wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary developing country*—(i) *Declaration.* In a case involving merchandise covered by a formal entry which is not wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a single beneficiary developing country, the exporter of the merchandise or other appropriate party having knowledge of the relevant facts shall be prepared to submit directly to the Center director, upon request, a declaration setting forth all pertinent detailed information concerning the production or manufacture of the merchandise. When requested by the Center director, the declaration shall be prepared in substantially the following form:


(ii) *Retention of records and submission of declaration.* The information necessary for preparation of the declaration shall be retained in the files of the party responsible for its preparation and submission for a period of 5 years. In the event that the Center director requests submission of the declaration during the 5-year period, it shall be submitted by the appropriate party directly to the Center director within 60 days of the date of the request or such additional period as the Center director may allow for good cause shown. Failure to submit the declaration in a timely fashion will result in a denial of duty-free treatment.


(2) *Merchandise wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary developing country.* In a case involving merchandise covered by a formal entry which is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a single beneficiary developing country, a statement to that effect shall be included on the commercial invoice provided to Customs.


(b) *Shipments covered by an informal entry.* Although the filing of the declaration provided for in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section will not be required for a shipment covered by an informal entry, the Center director may require such other evidence of country of origin as deemed necessary.


(c) *Verification of documentation.* Any evidence of country of origin submitted under this section shall be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is prevented from obtaining the necessary verification, the Center director may treat the entry as dutiable.



---

[N] [T.D. 94-47, 59 FR 25569, May 17, 1994]




