# § 134.1201   Scope of the rules in this subpart.

(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to appeals to OHA from certain final SBA loan review decisions under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and to any other PPP matter referred to OHA by the Administrator of SBA. The PPP was established as a temporary program under section 1102 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136), as amended. PPP loans include first draw PPP loans made under Section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act and second draw PPP loans made under Section 7(a)(37) of the Small Business Act.


(b) A final SBA loan review decision that is appealable under this subpart is an official written decision by SBA, after SBA completes a review of a PPP loan, that finds a borrower:


(1) Was ineligible for a PPP loan;


(2) Was ineligible for the PPP loan amount received or used the PPP loan proceeds for unauthorized uses;


(3) Is ineligible for PPP loan forgiveness in the amount determined by the lender in its full approval or partial approval decision issued to SBA; and/or


(4) Is ineligible for PPP loan forgiveness in any amount when the lender has issued a full denial decision to SBA.


(c) A borrower cannot directly file an appeal of a decision made by a lender concerning a PPP loan with OHA.


(d) An appeal to OHA is an administrative remedy that must be exhausted before judicial review of a final SBA loan review decision may be sought in a Federal district court.


(e) Any determination by SBA's Office of Inspector General concerning a PPP loan is not appealable to OHA.


(f) This subpart does not create any right to appeal any SBA decision on any 7(a) loans (*see* part 120 of this chapter) other than PPP loans.


(g) The Rules of Practice for Appeals From Size Determinations and NAICS Code Designations in subpart C of this part do not apply to appeals of final SBA loan review decisions or to the PPP.


(h) In addition to the provisions in subpart B of this part specifically referenced in this subpart, the following regulations from subpart B of this part also apply to this subpart: §§ 134.207 (Amendments and supplemental pleadings); 134.208 (Representation in cases before OHA); 134.209 (Requirement of signature); 134.211 (Motions); 134.212 (Summary judgment); 134.217 (Settlement); 134.218 (Judges); 134.219 (Sanctions); and 134.220 (Prohibition on ex parte communications). Other provisions from subpart B of this part that are not specifically referenced in this subpart do not apply to this subpart.




