# § 16.20   Applications for subsequent license for a project with an expiring license not subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to an application for subsequent license for a project with an expiring license that is not subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act. 


(b) *Licensing proceeding.* (1) An applicant for a license for a project with an expiring license not subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act must file its application under Part I of the Federal Power Act. 


(2) The provisions of section 7(a) of the Federal Power Act do not apply to licensing proceedings involving an application described in paragraph (b)(1). 


(c) *Requirement to file.* An applicant must file an application for subsequent license at least 24 months before the expiration of the existing license.


(d) *Requirements for and processing of applications.* An application for subsequent license must meet the requirements of, and will be processed in accordance with, §§ 16.5, 16.8, 16.9(b)(2), 16.9(b)(3), 16.9(b)(4), 16.9(c), and 16.9(d). 


(e) *Applicant notice.* An applicant for subsequent license or exemption that proposes to expand an existing project to encompass additional lands must include in its application a statement that the applicant has notified, by certified mail, property owners on the additional lands to be encompassed by the project and governmental agencies and subdivisions likely to be interested in or affected by the proposed expansion. 



---

[N] [Order 513, 54 FR 23806, June 2, 1989, as amended by Order 2002, 68 FR 51142, Aug. 25, 2003]




