# § 1.6050Y-3   Information reporting by 6050Y(b) issuers for reportable policy sales and transfers of life insurance contracts to foreign persons.

(a) *Requirement of reporting.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each 6050Y(b) issuer that receives an RPSS or any notice of a transfer to a foreign person must file an information return with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with respect to each seller in the form and manner prescribed by the IRS. The return must include the following information with respect to the seller:


(1) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the seller;


(2) The investment in the contract with respect to the seller;


(3) The amount the seller would have received if the seller had surrendered the life insurance contract on the date of the reportable policy sale or the transfer of the contract to a foreign person, or if the date of the transfer to a foreign person is not known to the 6050Y(b) issuer, the date the 6050Y(b) issuer received notice of the transfer; and


(4) Any other information that is required by the form or its instructions.


(b) *Unified reporting.* Each 6050Y(b) issuer subject to the information reporting requirement of paragraph (a) of this section must satisfy that requirement, but a 6050Y(b) issuer's reporting obligation is deemed satisfied if the information required by paragraph (a) of this section with respect to that 6050Y(b) issuer is timely reported on behalf of that 6050Y(b) issuer in a manner that is consistent with forms, instructions, and other IRS guidance by one or more other 6050Y(b) issuers or by a third party information reporting contractor.


(c) *Time and place for filing.* Except as provided in this paragraph (c), returns required to be made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center designated on the prescribed form or in its instructions on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the year following the calendar year in which the reportable policy sale or the transfer to a foreign person occurred. If the 6050Y(b) issuer does not receive notice of a transfer to a foreign person until after January 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the transfer occurred, returns required to be made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed by the later of February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the calendar year following the year in which the transfer occurred or thirty days after the date notice is received. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(5) for transition rules.


(d) *Requirement of and time for furnishing statements*—(1) *Requirement of furnishing statement.* Every 6050Y(b) issuer filing a return required by paragraph (a) of this section must furnish to each seller that is a reportable policy sale payment recipient or makes a transfer to a foreign person and whose name is required to be set forth in the return a written statement showing the information required by paragraph (a) of this section with respect to that seller and the name, address, and phone number of the information contact of the person filing the return. This contact information must provide direct access to a person that can answer questions about the statement.


(2) *Time for furnishing statement.* Except as provided in this paragraph (d)(2), each statement required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section to be furnished to any seller must be furnished on or before February 15 of the year following the calendar year in which the reportable policy sale or transfer to a foreign person occurred. If a 6050Y(b) issuer does not receive notice of a transfer to a foreign person until after January 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the transfer occurred, each statement required to be made under paragraph (d) of this section must be furnished by the date thirty days after the date notice is received. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(3) for transition rules.


(3) *Unified reporting.* Each 6050Y(b) issuer subject to the information reporting requirement of paragraph (d)(1) of this section must satisfy that requirement, but a 6050Y(b) issuer's reporting obligation is deemed satisfied if the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to that 6050Y(b) issuer is timely reported on behalf of that 6050Y(b) issuer consistent with forms, instructions, and other IRS guidance by one or more other 6050Y(b) issuers or by a third party information reporting contractor.


(e) *Notice of rescission of a reportable policy sale or transfer of an insurance contract to a foreign person.* Any 6050Y(b) issuer that has filed a return required by section 6050Y(b)(1) and this section with respect to a reportable policy sale or transfer of an insurance contract to a foreign person must file a corrected return within 15 calendar days of the receipt of notice of the rescission of the reportable policy sale or transfer of the insurance contract to a foreign person. Any 6050Y(b) issuer that has furnished a written statement under section 6050Y(b)(2) and this section with respect to the reportable policy sale or transfer of the insurance contract to a foreign person must furnish the recipient of that statement with a corrected statement within 15 calendar days of the receipt of notice of the rescission of the reportable policy sale or transfer of the insurance contract to a foreign person.


(f) *Exceptions to requirement to file.* A 6050Y(b) issuer is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section if paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (3) of this section applies.


(1) Except as provided in this paragraph (f)(1), the 6050Y(b) issuer obtains documentation upon which it may rely to treat a seller of a life insurance contract or interest therein as a foreign beneficial owner in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii), applying in such case the provisions of § 1.1441-1 by substituting the term “6050Y(b) issuer” for the term “withholding agent” and without regard to the fact that that these provisions apply only to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. A 6050Y(b) issuer may also obtain from a seller that is a partnership or trust, in addition to documentation establishing the entity's foreign status, a written certification from the entity that no beneficial owner of any portion of the proceeds of the sale is a United States person. In such a case, the issuer may rely upon the written certification to treat the partnership or trust as a foreign beneficial owner for purposes of this paragraph (f)(1) provided that the seller does not have actual knowledge that a United States person is the beneficial owner of all or a portion of the proceeds of the sale. See § 1.1441-1(c)(6)(ii) for the definition of beneficial owner that applies for purposes of this paragraph (f)(1). Additionally, for certifying its status as a foreign beneficial owner (as applicable) for purposes of this paragraph (f)(1), a seller that is required to report any of the income from the sale as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States under section 864(b) is required to provide to the 6050Y(b) issuer a Form W-8ECI, Certificate of Foreign Person's Claim that Income is Effectively Connected with the Conduct of a Trade or Business in the United States. If a 6050Y(b) issuer obtains a Form W-8ECI from a seller with respect to the sale or has reason to know that income from the sale is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States under section 864(b), the exception to reporting described in this paragraph (f)(1) does not apply.


(2) The 6050Y(b) issuer receives notice of a transfer to a foreign person, but does not receive an RPSS with respect to the transfer, provided that, at the time the notice is received—


(i) The 6050Y(b) issuer is not a United States person;


(ii) The life insurance contract (or interest therein) transferred is not on the life of a United States person; and


(iii) The 6050Y(b) issuer has not classified the seller as a United States person in its books and records.


(3) The RPSS received by the 6050Y(b) issuer is with respect to the 6050Y(b) issuer's issuance of a life insurance contract to a policyholder in an exchange pursuant to section 1035.


(g) *Cross-reference to penalty provisions*—(1) *Failure to file correct information return.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to file timely a correct information return required under section 6050Y(b)(1) and this section, see section 6721 and § 301.6721-1 of this chapter. See section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.


(2) *Failure to furnish correct statement.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to furnish timely a correct statement to identified persons under section 6050Y(b)(2) and this section, see section 6722 and § 301.6722-1 of this chapter. See section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9879, 84 FR 58487, Oct. 31, 2019]




