# § 425.302   Program requirements for data submission and certifications.

(a) *Requirements for data submission and certification.* (1) The ACO, its ACO participants, its ACO providers/suppliers or individuals or other entities performing functions or services related to ACO activities must submit all data and information, including data on measures designated by CMS under § 425.500 or § 425.510, as applicable, in a form and manner specified by CMS.


(2) *Certification of data upon submission.* With respect to data and information that are generated or submitted by the ACO, ACO participants, ACO providers/suppliers, or other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to ACO activities, an individual with the authority to legally bind the individual or entity submitting such data or information must certify the accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of the data and information to the best of his or her knowledge information and belief.


(3) *Annual certification.* At the end of each performance year, an individual with the legal authority to bind the ACO must certify to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief—


(i) That the ACO, its ACO participants, its ACO providers/suppliers, and other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to ACO activities are in compliance with program requirements;


(ii) The accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of all data and information that are generated or submitted by the ACO, ACO participants, ACO providers/suppliers, or other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to ACO activities, including any quality data or other information or data relied upon by CMS in determining the ACO's eligibility for, and the amount of a shared savings payment or the amount of shared losses or other monies owed to CMS; and


(iii) For performance years starting on January 1, 2019 through 2024, the percentage of eligible clinicians participating in the ACO that use CEHRT to document and communicate clinical care to their patients or other health care providers meets or exceeds the applicable percentage specified by CMS at § 425.506(f).


(iv) That the ACO has moved all advance investment payments received during that performance year into a designated advance investment payments account established under § 425.630(e) and the advance investment payments have been dispersed only for allowable uses.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [76 FR 67973, Nov. 2, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 60092, Nov. 23, 2018; 85 FR 85039, Dec. 28, 2020; 87 FR 70232, Nov. 18, 2022; 88 FR 79544, Nov. 16, 2023]




