# ยง 746.109   Procedures for appealing to the NCUA Board.

(a) *Request for appeal.* An insured credit union may file an appeal with the Board challenging a decision by the Committee within 30 calendar days after receiving that decision. An appeal must be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.


(b) *Granting an appeal.* At least one Board Member must agree to consider an appeal from a decision by the Committee. If a request for an oral hearing pursuant to ยง 746.111 is granted, the Secretary of the Board will notify the parties of the time and location where the oral hearing shall be heard. Except in unusual circumstances, any appeal shall be held at NCUA headquarters. If at least one Board Member does not agree to consider an appeal from a decision by the Committee within 20 days of receiving a request, the request will be deemed to have been denied.


(c) *Failure to file a timely appeal.* An insured credit union that fails to file an appeal within the specified 30-day period shall be deemed to have waived all claims pertaining to the matters in issue.


(d) *Certain actions not reviewable.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, Committee decisions on the denial of a technical assistance grant reimbursement are final decisions of NCUA and may not be appealed to the Board.


(e) *Content of appeal.* Any request for appeal must include:


(1) A statement of the facts on which the appeal is based;


(2) A statement of the basis for the determination to which the insured credit union objects and the alleged error in such determination; and


(3) A certification that the board of directors of the insured credit union has authorized the appeal to be filed.


(f) *Amending or supplementing the appeal.* The insured credit union may amend or supplement the appeal in writing within 15 calendar days from the date the Secretary of the Board receives an appeal. If the insured credit union amends or supplements the appeal, the program office will be permitted to file responsive materials within 15 calendar days.


(g) *Request for oral hearing.* In accordance with ยง 746.111, the insured credit union may request an opportunity to appear before the Board to make an oral presentation in support of the appeal.




