# § 1068.45   General labeling provisions.

The provisions of this part and the standard-setting part include a variety of labeling requirements. The following general provisions apply:


(a) *Permanent labels.* Where we specify that you apply a permanent label, you must meet the following requirements unless the standard-setting part includes other specific label requirements:


(1) Attach the label so no one can remove it without destroying or defacing it.


(2) Make sure it is durable and readable for the engine/equipment's entire life.


(3) Secure it to a part of the engine/equipment needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.


(4) Write it in English.


(5) Make the labels readily visible to the average person after all installation and assembly are complete.


(b) *Removable labels.* Where we specify that you apply a removable label, it must meet the following conditions:


(1) You must attach the label in a way that does not allow it to be separated from the engine/equipment without a deliberate effort. Note that for exemptions requiring removable labels, the exemption no longer applies once the label is separated from the engine/equipment.


(2) The label must be durable and readable throughout the period of its intended purpose. This period generally includes all distribution in U.S. commerce during which the exemption applies.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the label must be attached directly to the engine/equipment in a visible location. We consider a tag that meets the specified requirements to be an attached label.


(c) *Labels on packaging.* Unless we specify otherwise, where we require engine/equipment labels that may be removable, you may instead label the packaging if the engines/equipment are packaged together as described in this paragraph (c). For example, this may involve packaging engines together by attaching them to a rack, binding them together on a pallet, or enclosing them in a box. The provisions of this paragraph (c) also apply for engines/equipment boxed individually where you do not apply labels directly to the engines/equipment. The following provisions apply if you label the packaging instead of labeling engines/equipment individually:


(1) You may use the provisions of this paragraph (c) only if all the engines/equipment packaged together need the same label.


(2) You must place the label on the package in a readily visible location. This may require labeling the package in multiple locations.


(3) You must package the engines/equipment such that the labels will not be separated from the engines/equipment or otherwise become unreadable throughout the period that the label applies. For example, labels required for shipping engines to a secondary engine manufacturer under § 1068.262 must remain attached and readable until they reach the secondary engine manufacturer. Similarly, removable labels specified in § 1068.240 for replacement engines must remain attached and readable until they reach the point of final installation.


(4) You are in violation of § 1068.101(a)(1) if such engines/equipment are removed from the package or are otherwise separated from the label before reaching the point at which the label is no longer needed.


(d) *Temporary consumer labels.* Where we specify that you apply temporary consumer labels (including tags), each label must meet the following conditions:


(1) You must attach the label in a way that does not allow it to be separated from the engine/equipment without a deliberate effort.


(2) The label must be sufficiently durable to be readable until it reaches the ultimate purchaser.


(3) The label must be attached directly to the engine/equipment in a visible location.


(e) *Prohibitions against removing labels.* As specified in § 1068.101(b)(7), removing permanent labels is prohibited except for certain circumstances. Removing temporary or removable labels prematurely is also prohibited by § 1068.101(b)(7).


(f) *Identifying emission control systems.* If the standard-setting part specifies that you use standardized terms and abbreviations to identify emission control systems, use terms and abbreviations consistent with SAE J1930 (incorporated by reference in § 1068.95). 


(g) *Date format.* If you use a coded approach to identify the engine/equipment's date of manufacture, describe or interpret the code in your application for certification.


(h) *Branding.* The following provisions apply if you identify the name and trademark of another company instead of your own on your emission control information label, as provided in the standard-setting part:


(1) You must have a contractual agreement with the other company that obligates that company to take the following steps:


(i) Meet the emission warranty requirements that apply under the standard-setting part. This may involve a separate agreement involving reimbursement of warranty-related expenses.


(ii) Report all warranty-related information to the certificate holder.


(2) In your application for certification, identify the company whose trademark you will use.


(3) You remain responsible for meeting all the requirements of this chapter, including warranty and defect-reporting provisions.



---

[N] [73 FR 59344, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23059, Apr. 30, 2010; 81 FR 74222, Oct. 25, 2016]




