# ยง 634.16   Suspension of grants.

(a) *Suspension orders.* Work on a project or on a portion or phase of a project for which a grant has been awarded, may be suspended by order of the State Conservationist, NRCS. Suspension does not affect RCWP contracts existing at the time the suspension order is issued, or the administering agency's responsibility to make payments under such contracts unless specifically provided for in the suspend order. In no event will the participant's right to cost-share payment be diminished by action taken under this section.


(b) *Use of suspension orders.* Suspension may be required for good cause, such as default by the administering agency, failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the grant, realignment of programs, or advancements in the state of the art.


(c) *Contents of suspension orders.* Prior to issuance, suspension orders will be discussed with the administering agency and may be appropriately modified, in the light of such discussions. Suspension orders are to include:


(1) A clear description of the work to be suspended, 


(2) Instructions as to the issuance of further orders by the administering agency for materials or services,


(3) Instructions as to the administering agency entering into new RCWP contracts in the project area, 


(4) Instructions as to the administering agency servicing existing RCWP contracts in the project area, and 


(5) Other instructions to the administering agency for minimizing Federal costs.


(d) *Issuance of suspension order.* Suspension orders are issued by the State Conservationist, NRCS, by letter to the administering agency (certified mail, return receipt requested). A suspension order may not exceed forty-five (45) calendar days.


(e) *Effect of suspension order.* (1) Upon receipt of a suspension order, the administering agency shall promptly comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work suspension. During the suspension period, NRCS shall either:


(i) Cancel the suspension order, in full or in part, and authorize resumption of work, or


(ii) Take action to terminate the work covered by such order as provided by ยง 634.17.


(2) If a suspension order is canceled, or the period of the order expires, the administering agency shall promptly resume the suspended work. An equitable adjustment shall be made in the grant period, the project period, or grant amount, or all of these, and the grant agreement may be amended:


(i) The suspension order results in an increase in the time, or cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of the project; and


(ii) The administering agency asserts a written claim for such adjustment within thirty (30) days after the end of the period of work suspension. If no written claim is made, NRCS may unilaterally make such adjustments.


(iii) Reasonable costs resulting from the suspension order shall be allowed in arriving at any terminations settlement. 


(3) Costs incurred by the administering agency after a suspension order is delivered that are not authorized by this section or specifically authorized in writing by the State Conservationist, NRCS, shall not be allowable costs.




