# § 524.1005   Furazolidone powder.

(a) *Specifications.* The product contains either 4 or 10 percent furazolidone in inert dispersing agent and propellant.


(b) *Sponsors.* (1) See No. 051031 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for use as in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(3) of this section. 


(2) See No. 017135 for use of the 4 percent product as in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Amount.* Hold container about 6 to 12 inches from the eye or affected area and apply only enough powder to impart a light yellow color. 


(2) *Indications of use*—(i) *Dogs.* For treatment or prevention of bacterial infection of superficial wounds, abrasions, lacerations, and pyogenic dermatitis. 


(ii) *Horses.* For treatment or prevention of bacterial infection of superficial wounds, abrasions, lacerations, and following firing (heat or electrocautery). 


(iii) [Reserved] 


(iv) *Horses and ponies.* For treatment or prevention of bacterial infection of superficial wounds, abrasions, and lacerations caused by *Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus spp.* and *Proteus spp.* sensitive to furazolidone. 


(3) *Limitations.* For topical application in horses, ponies, and dogs: Clean affected area thoroughly, apply drug once or twice daily, and repeat treatment as required. Use only as recommended by a veterinarian in treatment of puncture wounds, wounds requiring surgical debridement or suturing, those of a chronic nature involving proud flesh, generalized and chronic infections of the skin, and those skin conditions associated with intense itching. If redness, irritation, or swelling persists or increases, discontinue use and consult a veterinarian. Do not use in horses intended for human consumption.



---

[N] [45 FR 49543, July 25, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 30153, July 24, 1985; 56 FR 50653, Oct. 8, 1991; 57 FR 31314, July 15, 1992; 60 FR 55659, Nov. 2, 1995; 65 FR 41588, July 6, 2000; 79 FR 10969, Feb. 27, 2014; 82 FR 11508, Feb. 24, 2017] 




