# ยง 239.56   Vote by members.

(a) *Mutual member approval of the plan of conversion.* (1) After the Board approves the plan of conversion, the mutual holding company must submit the plan of conversion to its members for approval. The mutual holding company must obtain this approval at a meeting of its members.


(2) The members must approve the plan of conversion by a majority of the total outstanding votes.


(3) The members may vote in person or by proxy.


(4) The mutual holding company may notify eligible account holders or supplemental eligible account holders who are not voting members of the proposed conversion. The mutual holding company may include only the information in ยง 239.54(c) in the notice.


(b) *Eligibility to vote for the plan of conversion.* The mutual holding company determines members' eligibility to vote by setting a voting record date. The mutual holding company must set a voting record date that is not more than 60 days nor less than 20 days before the meeting.


(c) *Notifying members of the meeting.* The mutual holding company must notify the members of the meeting to consider the conversion by sending the members a proxy statement.


(2) The mutual holding company must notify its members 20 to 45 days before the meeting.


(3) The mutual holding company must also notify each beneficial holder of an account at any subsidiary savings association held in a fiduciary capacity:


(i) If the subsidiary savings association is a federal association and the name of the beneficial holder is disclosed on the records of the subsidiary savings association; or


(ii) If the subsidiary savings association is a state-chartered association and the beneficial holder possesses voting rights under state law.


(d) *Submissions to the Board after the members' meeting.* (1) Promptly after the members' meeting, the mutual holding company must file all of the following information with the appropriate Reserve Bank:


(i) A certified copy of each adopted resolution on the conversion.


(ii) The total votes eligible to be cast.


(iii) The total votes represented in person or by proxy.


(iv) The total votes cast in favor of and against each matter.


(v) The percentage of votes necessary to approve each matter.


(vi) An opinion of counsel that the mutual holding company conducted the members' meeting in compliance with all applicable state or federal laws and regulations.


(2) Promptly after completion of the conversion, the mutual holding company must submit to the appropriate Reserve Bank an opinion of counsel that the mutual holding company has complied with all laws applicable to the conversion.




