# ยง 52.2497   Significant deterioration of air quality.

(a) The requirements of sections 160 through 165 of the Clean Air Act are not fully met because the plan does not include approvable procedures for preventing the significant deterioration of air quality from:


(1) Facilities with carbon dioxide (CO_2_) emissions from the industrial combustion of biomass in the following circumstances:


(i) Where a new major stationary source or major modification would be subject to Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) requirements for greenhouse gases (GHGs) under 40 CFR 52.21 but would not be subject to PSD under the state implementation plan (SIP) because CO_2_ emissions from the industrial combustion of biomass are excluded from consideration as GHGs as a matter of state law under RCW 70.235.020(3); or


(ii) Where a new major stationary source or major modification is subject to PSD for GHGs under both the Washington SIP and the FIP, but CO_2_ emissions from the industrial combustion of biomass are excluded from consideration in the Ecology PSD permitting process because of the exclusion in RCW 70.235.020(3);


(2) Indian reservations in Washington, except for non-trust land within the exterior boundaries of the Puyallup Indian Reservation (also known as the 1873 Survey Area) as provided in the Puyallup Tribe of Indians Settlement Act of 1989, 25 U.S.C. 1773, and any other area where the EPA or an Indian tribe has demonstrated that a tribe has jurisdiction.


(3) Sources subject to PSD permits issued by the EPA prior to August 7, 1977, but only with respect to the general administration of any such permits still in effect (*e.g.,* modifications, amendments, or revisions of any nature).


(b) *Regulations for preventing significant deterioration of air quality.* The provisions of ยง 52.21, except paragraph (a)(1), are hereby incorporated and made a part of the applicable plan for Washington for the facilities, emission sources, geographic areas, and permits listed in paragraph (a) of this section. For situations addressed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the EPA will issue a Federal PSD permit under ยง 52.21 to the new major stationary source or major modification addressing PSD requirements applicable to GHGs for all subject emission units at the source, regardless of whether CO_2_ emissions resulted from the industrial combustion of biomass or from other sources of GHGs at the facility. For situations addressed in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the EPA will issue a Federal PSD permit under ยง 52.21 addressing PSD requirements applicable to GHGs for each subject emissions unit that is permitted to emit CO_2_ from the industrial combustion of biomass.


(c) In accordance with section 164 of the Clean Air Act and the provisions of 40 CFR 52.21(g), the Spokane Indian Reservation is designated as a Class I area for the purposes of preventing significant deterioration of air quality.


(d) The regulations at 40 CFR 49.10191 through 49.10220 contain the Federal Implementation Plan for the Kalispel Indian Community of the Kalispel Reservation, Washington. The regulation at 40 CFR 49.10198(b) designates the original Kalispel Reservation, as established by Executive Order No. 1904, signed by President Woodrow Wilson on March 23, 1914, as a Class I area for purposes of prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.



---

[N] [43 FR 26410, June 19, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 52741, Aug. 7, 1980; 56 FR 14862, Apr. 12, 1991; 68 FR 11324, Mar. 10, 2003; 68 FR 74490, Dec. 24, 2003; 80 FR 23729, Apr. 29, 2015; 82 FR 24537, May 30, 2017; 84 FR 34313, July 18, 2019]




