# ยง 271.103   Risk-based hazard management program.

(a) *General.* (1) An RRP shall include an integrated, system-wide, and ongoing risk-based HMP that proactively identifies hazards and mitigates the risks resulting from those hazards.


(2) A risk-based HMP shall be fully implemented (*i.e.,* activities initiated) within 36 months after FRA approves a railroad's RRP plan pursuant to ยง 271.301(d).


(b) *Risk-based hazard analysis.* As part of its risk-based HMP, a railroad shall conduct a risk-based hazard analysis that addresses, at a minimum, the following aspects of a railroad's system: Infrastructure; equipment; employee levels and work schedules; operating rules and practices; management structure; employee training; and other areas impacting railroad safety that are not covered by railroad safety laws or regulations or other Federal laws or regulations. A railroad shall make the results of its risk-based hazard analysis available to FRA upon request. At a minimum, a risk-based hazard analysis shall:


(1) Identify hazards by analyzing:


(i) Aspects of the railroad's system, including any operational changes, system extensions, or system modifications; and


(ii) Accidents/incidents, injuries, fatalities, and other known indicators of hazards;


(2) Calculate risk by determining and analyzing the likelihood and severity of potential events associated with identified risk-based hazards; and


(3) Compare and prioritize the identified risks for mitigation purposes.


(c) *Mitigation strategies.* (1) As part of its risk-based HMP, a railroad shall design and implement mitigation strategies that improve safety by:


(i) Mitigating or eliminating aspects of a railroad's system that increase risks identified in the risk-based hazard analysis; and


(ii) Enhancing aspects of a railroad's system that decrease risks identified in the risk-based hazard analysis.


(2) A railroad may use pilot projects, including pilot projects conducted by other railroads, to determine whether quantitative data suggests that a particular mitigation strategy has potential to succeed on a full-scale basis.




