# ยง 410.1703   Information used as evidence to conduct age determinations.

(a) ORR considers multiple forms of evidence in making age determinations, and determinations are made based upon a totality of evidence.


(b) ORR may consider information or documentation to make an age determination, including but not limited to:


(1) If there is no original birth certificate, certified copy, or photocopy or facsimile copy of a birth certificate acceptable to ORR, consulting with the consulate or embassy of the individual's country of birth to verify the validity of the birth certificate presented.


(2) Authentic government-issued documents issued to the bearer.


(3) Other documentation, such as baptismal certificates, school records, and medical records, which indicate an individual's date of birth.


(4) Sworn affidavits from parents or other relatives as to the individual's age or birth date.


(5) Statements provided by the individual regarding the individual's age or birth date.


(6) Statements from parents or legal guardians.


(7) Statements from other persons apprehended with the individual.


(8) Medical age assessments, which should not be used as a sole determining factor but only in concert with other factors. If an individual's estimated probability of being 18 years or older is 75 percent or greater according to a medical age assessment, and the totality of the evidence indicates that the individual is 18 years old or older, ORR must determine that the individual is 18 years old or older. The 75 percent probability threshold applies to all medical methods and approaches identified by the medical community as appropriate methods for assessing age. Ambiguous, debatable, or borderline forensic examination results are resolved in favor of finding the individual is a child.






