# ยง 51.25   Name of applicant to be used in passport.

(a) The passport shall be issued in the full name of the applicant, generally the name recorded in the evidence of nationality and identity.


(b) The applicant must explain any material discrepancies between the name on the application and the name recorded in the evidence of nationality and identity. The name provided by the applicant on the application may be used if the applicant submits the documentary evidence prescribed by the Department.


(c) A name change will be recognized for purposes of issuing a passport if the name change occurs in one of the following ways.


(1) *Court order or decree.* An applicant whose name has been changed by court order or decree must submit with his or her application a copy of the order or decree.


Acceptable types of court orders and decrees include but are not limited to:


(i) A name change order;


(ii) A divorce decree specifically declaring the return to a former name;


(2) Certificate of naturalization issued in a new name.


(3) *Marriage.* An applicant who has adopted a new name following marriage must present a copy of the marriage certificate.


(4) *Operation of state law.* An applicant must present operative government-issued legal documentation declaring the name change or issued in the new name.


(5) *Customary usage.* An applicant who has adopted a new name other than as prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section must submit evidence of public and exclusive use of the adopted name for a long period of time, in general five years, as prescribed in guidance issued by the Department. The evidence must include three or more public documents, including one government-issued identification with photograph and other acceptable public documents prescribed by the Department.




