# § 319.40-6   Universal importation options.

(a) *Logs.* Logs may be imported if prior to importation the logs have been debarked in accordance with § 319.40-7(b) and heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. During the entire interval between treatment and export, the logs must be stored and handled in a manner which excludes any access to the logs by plant pests. 


(b) *Lumber*—(1) *Heat treated or heat treated with moisture reduction.* Lumber that prior to importation has been heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, may be imported in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated article (other than solid wood packing materials) is permitted on the means of conveyance with the lumber, unless the lumber and the other regulated articles are in separate holds or separate sealed containers, or, if the lumber and other regulated articles are mixed in a hold or sealed container, all the regulated articles have been heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. Lumber on the vessel's deck must be in a sealed container, unless it has been heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter 


(ii) If lumber has been heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , that fact must be stated on the importer document, or by a permanent marking on each piece of lumber in the form of the letters “HT” or the words “Heat Treated.” If lumber has been heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, that fact must be stated on the importer document, or by a permanent marking, on each piece of lumber or on the cover of bundles of lumber, in the form of the letters “KD” or the words “Kiln Dried.” 


(2) *Raw lumber.* Raw lumber, including solid wood packing materials imported as cargo, from all places except places in Asia that are east of 60° East Longitude and north of the Tropic of Cancer may be imported in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated article (other than solid wood packing materials) is permitted on the means of conveyance with the raw lumber, unless the raw lumber and the other regulated articles are in separate holds or separate sealed containers. Raw lumber on the vessel's deck must be in a sealed container. 


(ii) The raw lumber must be consigned to a facility operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8 that requires the raw lumber to be heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , within 30 days from the time the lumber is released from the port of first arrival. Heat treatment must be completed before any cutting, planing, or sawing of the raw lumber. 


(c) *Wood chips and bark chips*—(1) *From Chile (pine) and South America (eucalyptus).* Wood chips from Chile that are derived from Monterey or Radiata pine (*Pinus radiata*) logs and wood chips from South America that are derived from temperate species of *Eucalyptus* may be imported in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section or in accordance with the following requirements: 


(i) The wood chips must be accompanied by a certificate stating that the wood chips meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section. 


(A) The wood chips were treated with a surface pesticide treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter within 24 hours after the log was chipped and were retreated with a surface pesticide treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter if more than 30 days elapsed between the date of the first treatment and the date of export to the United States. 


(B) The wood chips were derived from logs from live, healthy, plantation-grown trees that were apparently free of plant pests, plant pest damage, and decay organisms, and the logs used to make the wood chips were debarked in accordance with § 319.40-7(b) before being chipped. 


(C) No more than 45 days elapsed from the time the trees used to make the wood chips were felled to the time the wood chips were exported. 


(ii) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated articles (other than solid wood packing materials) are permitted in the holds or sealed containers carrying the wood chips. Wood chips on the vessel's deck must be in a sealed container. 


(iii) The wood chips must be consigned to a facility in the United States that operates under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8. The following requirements apply upon arrival of the wood chips in the United States: 


(A) Upon arrival in the United States, the wood chips must be unloaded by a conveyor that is covered to prevent the chips from being blown by the wind and from accidental spillage. The facility receiving the wood chips must have a procedure in place to retrieve any chips that fall during unloading. 


(B) If the wood chips must be transported after arrival, the chips must be covered or safeguarded in a manner that prevents the chips from spilling or falling off the means of conveyance or from being blown off the means of conveyance by wind. 


(C) The wood chips must be stored at the facility on a paved surface and must be kept segregated from other regulated articles from the time of discharge from the means of conveyance until the chips are processed. The storage area must not be adjacent to wooded areas. 


(D) The wood chips must be processed within 45 days of arrival at the facility. Any fines or unusable wood chips must be disposed of by burning within 45 days of arrival at the facility. 


(2) *From locations other than certain places in Asia.* Wood chips and bark chips from any place except places in Asia that are east of 60° east longitude and north of the Tropic of Cancer may be imported in accordance with this paragraph. 


(i) The wood chips or bark chips must be accompanied by an importer document stating that the wood chips or bark chips were either: 


(A) Derived from live, healthy, tropical species of plantation-grown trees grown in tropical areas; or 


(B) Fumigated with methyl bromide in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. 


(ii) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated articles (other than solid wood packing materials) are permitted in the holds or sealed containers carrying the wood chips or bark chips. Wood chips or bark chips on the vessel's deck must be in a sealed container; *Except that:* If the wood chips or bark chips are derived from live, healthy, plantation-grown trees in tropical areas, they may be shipped on deck if no other regulated articles are present on the vessel and the wood chips or bark chips are completely covered by a tarpaulin during the entire journey directly to the United States. 


(iii) The wood chips or bark chips must be free from rot at the time of importation, unless accompanied by an importer document stating that the entire lot was fumigated with methyl bromide in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. 


(iv) Wood chips or bark chips imported in accordance with this paragraph must be consigned to a facility operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8. The wood chips or bark chips must be burned, heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or otherwise processed in a manner that will destroy any plant pests associated with the wood chips or bark chips within 30 days of arrival at the facility. If the wood chips or bark chips are to be used for mulching or composting, they must first be fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.


(d) *Wood mulch, humus, compost, and litter.* Wood mulch, humus, compost, and litter may be imported if accompanied by an importer document stating that the wood mulch, humus, compost, or litter was fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with § 319.40-7(d). 


(e) *Cork and bark.* Cork and cork bark, cinnamon bark, and other bark to be used for food, manufacture of medicine, or chemical extraction may be imported if free from rot at the time of importation and subject to the inspection and other requirements of § 319.40-9. 



---

[N] [60 FR 27679, May 25, 1995; 60 FR 30157, June 7, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 21127, Apr. 20, 2000; 69 FR 2295, Jan. 15, 2004; 69 FR 52418, Aug. 26, 2004; 75 FR 4252, Jan. 26, 2010]




