# § 1006.110   Review of plans.

(a) *Review*—(1) *In general.* Within 60 days of receipt of the housing plan, HUD will conduct a limited review to ensure that the contents of the plan comply with the requirements of § 1006.101, are consistent with information and data available to HUD, and are not prohibited by or inconsistent with any provision of the Act and this part or any other applicable law. 


(2) *Limitation.* HUD will review the housing plan only to the extent that HUD considers that the review is necessary. 


(3) *Incomplete plans.* If HUD determines that any of the required certifications are not included in the housing plan, the plan shall be considered to be incomplete. HUD may also consider a housing plan to be incomplete if it does not address all of the requirements of § 1006.101, and the DHHL has not requested a waiver of the missing requirement. 


(b) *Notice*—(1) *In general.* Not later than 60 days after receiving the housing plan, HUD will notify the DHHL whether or not the plan complies with applicable requirements. 


(2) *Notice of reasons for determination of noncompliance.* If HUD determines that the contents of the housing plan do not comply with the requirements of § 1006.101, or are not consistent with information and data available to HUD, or are prohibited by or inconsistent with any provision of the Act and this part or any other applicable law, HUD will specify in the notice under paragraph (b)(1) of this section: 


(i) The reasons for noncompliance; and 


(ii) Any modifications necessary for the plan to be in compliance. 


(3) *Effect of HUD's failure to take action.* If HUD does not notify the DHHL, upon the expiration of the 60-day period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the plan shall be considered to have been determined to comply with the requirements under § 1006.101 and the DHHL shall be considered to have been notified of compliance. 




