# § 682.204   Maximum loan amounts.

(a) *Stafford Loan Program annual limits.* (1) In the case of an undergraduate student who has not successfully completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $2,625, or, for a loan disbursed on or after July 1, 2007, $3,500, for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a one-year program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $3,500, as the—


(iii) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, the amount that is the same ratio to $3,500 as the lesser of the—


(2) In the case of a student who has successfully completed the first year of an undergraduate program but has not successfully completed the second year of an undergraduate program, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $4,500 for a program whose length is at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $4,500 as the—


(3) In the case of an undergraduate student who has successfully completed the first and second years of a program of study of undergraduate education but has not successfully completed the remainder of the program, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $5,500 for a program whose length is at least an academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $5,500 as the—


(4) In the case of a student who has an associate or baccalaureate degree that is required for admission into a program and who is not a graduate or professional student, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study may not exceed the amounts in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(5) In the case of a graduate or professional student, the total amount the student may borrow for loans made prior to July 1, 2010 for any academic year of study under the Stafford Loan Program, in combination with any amount borrowed under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program, may not exceed $8,500.


(6) In the case of a student enrolled for no longer than one consecutive 12-month period in a course of study necessary for enrollment in a program leading to a degree or certificate, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed the following:


(i) $2,625 for coursework necessary for enrollment in an undergraduate degree or certificate program.


(ii) $5,500 for coursework necessary for enrollment in a graduate or professional degree or certificate program for a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree.


(7) In the case of a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree and is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in coursework necessary for a professional credential or certification from a State that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary or secondary school in that State, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Subsidized Loan Program may not exceed $5,500.


(8) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, an undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is one academic year or less in length may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(9) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section— 


(i) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has not successfully completed the first year of that program may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(ii) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has successfully completed the first year of that program, but has not successfully completed the second year of the program, may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(b) *Stafford Loan Program aggregate limits.* The aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Stafford Loan Program loans in combination with loans received by the student under the Direct Subsidized Loan Program, but excluding the amount of capitalized interest may not exceed the following:


(1) $23,000 in the case of any student who has not successfully completed a program of study at the undergraduate level.


(2) $65,500, in the case of a graduate or professional student, including loans for undergraduate study.


(c) *Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program.* (1) Except for a dependent undergraduate student who qualifies for additional Unsubsidized Stafford Loan funds because the student's parents are unable to borrow under the PLUS Loan Program, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the total amount the dependent undergraduate student may borrow for any academic year under the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program is the same amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section, less any amount received under the Stafford Loan Program or the Direct Subsidized Loan program, plus—


(i) $2,000, for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study that is at least one academic year or more in length with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $2,000 as the—


(iii) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, the amount that is the same ratio to $2,000 as the lesser of the—


(2) In the case of an independent undergraduate student, a graduate or professional student, or certain dependent undergraduate students under the conditions specified in § 682.201(a)(3), the total amount the student may borrow for any period of enrollment under the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan and Direct Unsubsidized Loan programs may not exceed the amounts determined under paragraph (a) of this section less any amount received under the Federal Stafford Loan Program or the Direct Subsidized Loan Program, in combination with the amounts determined under paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Additional eligibility under the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program.* An independent undergraduate student, graduate or professional student, and certain dependent undergraduate students under the conditions specified in § 682.201(a)(3) may borrow amounts under the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program in addition to any amount borrowed under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. The additional amount that such a student may borrow for any academic year of study under the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program in combination with the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program, in addition to the amounts allowed under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(9) of this section for certain dependent undergraduate students—


(1) In the case of a student who has not successfully completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education, may not exceed the following:


(i) $6,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year.


(ii) For a one-year program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the—


(iii) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, an amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the lesser of—



(2) In the case of a student who has completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education but has not successfully completed the second year of a program of undergraduate education may not exceed the following:


(i) $6,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.


(ii) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the—


(3) In the case of a student who has successfully completed the second year of a program of undergraduate education, but has not completed the remainder of the program, may not exceed the following:


(i) $7,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year.


(ii) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $7,000 as the—


(4) In the case of a student who has an associate or baccalaureate degree that is required for admission into a program and who is not a graduate or professional student, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study may not exceed the amounts in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(5) In the case of a graduate or professional student, may not exceed $12,000.


(6) In the case of a student enrolled for no longer than one consecutive 12-month period in a course of study necessary for enrollment in a program leading to a degree or a certificate may not exceed the following:


(i) $6,000 for coursework necessary for enrollment in an undergraduate degree or certificate program.


(ii) $7,000 for coursework necessary for enrollment in a graduate or professional degree or certificate program for a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree.


(iii) In the case of a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree and is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a program necessary for a professional credential or a certification from a State that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary or secondary school in that State, $7,000.


(7) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, an undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is one academic year or less in length may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 


(8) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section— 


(i) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has not successfully completed the first year of that program may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 


(ii) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has successfully completed the first year of that program, but has not successfully completed the second year of the program, may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(9) A dependent undergraduate student who qualifies for the additional Unsubsidized Stafford Loan amounts under this section in accordance with the conditions specified in § 682.201(a)(3) is not eligible to receive the additional Unsubsidized Stafford Loan amounts under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(e) *Combined Federal Stafford, SLS and Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program aggregate limits.* The aggregate unpaid principal amount of Stafford Loans, Direct Subsidized Loans, Unsubsidized Stafford Loans, Direct Unsubsidized Loans and SLS Loans, but excluding the amount of capitalized interest, may not exceed the following:


(1) $31,000 for a dependent undergraduate student.


(2) $57,500 for an independent undergraduate student or a dependent undergraduate student under the conditions specified in § 682.201(a)(3).


(3) $138,500 for a graduate or professional student.


(f) *SLS Program aggregate limit.* The total unpaid principal amount of SLS Program loans made to—


(1) An undergraduate student may not exceed—


(i) $20,000, for loans for which the first disbursement is made prior to July 1, 1993; or


(ii) $23,000, for loans for which the first disbursement was made on or after July 1, 1993; and


(2) A graduate student may not exceed—


(i) $20,000, for loans for which the first disbursement is made prior to July 1, 1993; or


(ii) $73,000, for loans for which the first disbursement was made on or after July 1, 1993 including loans for undergraduate study.


(g) *PLUS Program annual limit.* The total amount of all PLUS Program loans that a parent or student may borrow for any academic year of study may not exceed the student's cost of education minus other estimated financial assistance for that student.


(h) *Minimum loan interval.* The annual loan limits applicable to a student apply to the length of the school's academic year.


(i) *Treatment of Consolidation loans for purposes of determining loan limits.* The percentage of the outstanding balance on a Consolidation loan counted against a borrower's aggregate loan limits under the Stafford loan, Unsubsidized Stafford loan, Direct Stafford loan, Direct Unsubsidized loan, SLS, PLUS, Perkins Loan, or HEAL program must equal the percentage of the original amount of the Consolidation loan attributable to loans made to the borrower under that program.


(j) *Maximum loan amounts.* In no case may a Stafford, PLUS, or SLS loan amount exceed the student's estimated cost of attendance for the period of enrollment for which the loan is intended, less—


(1) The student's estimated financial assistance for that period; and


(2) The borrower's expected family contribution for that period, in the case of a Stafford loan that is eligible for interest benefits.


(k) In determining a Stafford loan amount in accordance with § 682.204 (a), (c) and (d), the school must use the definition of academic year in 34 CFR 668.3.


(l) Any TEACH Grants that have been converted to Direct Unsubsidized Loans are not counted against annual or any aggregate loan limits under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.



---

[N] [59 FR 33350, June 28, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 18976, Apr. 16, 1999; 64 FR 58954, Nov. 1, 1999; 66 FR 34763, June 29, 2001; 67 FR 67078, Nov. 1, 2002; 71 FR 45700, Aug. 9, 2006; 71 FR 64397, Nov. 1, 2006; 73 FR 35495, June 23, 2008; 73 FR 36793, June 30, 2008; 74 FR 55991, Oct. 29, 2009; 78 FR 65808, Nov. 1, 2013]




