# ยง 2003.6   Voting (Article VI).

(a) *Motions.* When the Panel is required to make a decision or recommendation to resolve a matter before it, the Chair requests or accepts a motion for a vote. Any member, including the Chair, may make a motion for a vote. No second is required to bring any motion to a vote. A quorum must be present when a vote is taken.


(b) *Eligibility.* Only the member, including the Chair, may vote on a motion before the ISCAP, with each represented member organization having one vote.


(c) *Voting procedures at meetings.* Votes are ordinarily taken and tabulated by a show of hands.


(d) *Passing a motion.* In response to a motion, members may vote affirmatively, negatively, or abstain from voting. A motion passes when it receives a majority of affirmative votes of the members voting. In circumstances in which members abstain from voting, a Panel decision to reverse an agency's classification decision requires the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the members present.


(e) *Votes in a non-meeting context.* The Chair may call for a vote of the membership outside the context of a formal ISCAP meeting. An alternate member may also participate in such a vote if the primary member cannot be present. The Executive Secretary records and retains such votes in a documentary form and immediately reports the results to the Chair and other primary or alternate members, including all notes of concurrence or dissent. If a member expresses dissent to taking a non-meeting vote, any member may request the Chair call a meeting of the members to discuss the issue under consideration and to hold an in-person vote.




