# ยง 3030.101   Definitions.

(a) The definitions in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section apply to this part.


(b) *Annual limitation* means the annual limitation on the percentage change in rates equal to the change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) unadjusted for seasonal variation over the most recently available 12-month period preceding the date the Postal Service files a request to review its notice of rate adjustment, as determined by the Commission.


(c) *Banked rate authority* means unused rate adjustment authority accumulated for future use pursuant to the rules in this part.


(d) A *class* of mail means the First-Class Mail, USPS Marketing Mail, Periodicals, Package Services, or Special Services groupings of market dominant Postal Service products or services. Generally, the regulations in this part are applicable to individual classes of mail.


(e) *Density rate authority* means rate authority that is available to all classes to address the effects of decreases in density of mail.


(f) *Maximum rate adjustment authority* means the maximum percentage change in rates available to a class for any planned increase in rates. It is the sum of: The consumer price index rate authority, and any available density rate authority, retirement obligation rate authority, banked rate authority, and rate authority applicable to non-compensatory classes.


(g) *Rate authority applicable to non-compensatory classes* means rate authority available to classes where revenue for each product within the class was insufficient to cover that product's attributable costs as determined by the Commission.


(h) *Rate cell* means each and every separate rate identified as a rate of general applicability.


(i) *Rate incentive* means a discount that is not a workshare discount and that is designed to increase or retain volume, improve the value of mail for mailers, or improve the operations of the Postal Service.


(j) *Rate of general applicability* means a rate applicable to all mail meeting standards established by the Mail Classification Schedule, the Domestic Mail Manual, and the International Mail Manual. A rate is not a rate of general applicability if eligibility for the rate is dependent on factors other than the characteristics of the mail to which the rate applies, including the volume of mail sent by a mailer in a past year or years. A rate is not a rate of general applicability if it benefits a single mailer. A rate that is only available upon the written agreement of both the Postal Service and a mailer, a group of mailers, or a foreign postal operator is not a rate of general applicability.


(k) *Retirement obligation rate authority* means rate authority that is available to all classes to provide revenue for remittance towards the statutorily mandated amortization payments for unfunded liabilities.


(l) A *seasonal or temporary rate* is a rate that is in effect for a limited and defined period of time.




