# § 842.104   Statutory exclusions.

(a) *Lack of social security coverage.* An individual not covered by social security (title II of the Social Security Act and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954), including an individual covered by full CSRS (and thereby excluded from social security coverage), is excluded from FERS coverage.


(b) *Senior officials subject to social security coverage despite continuous service.* An individual who has served without a break in service of more than 365 days since December 31, 1983, in one or more of the following positions is excluded from FERS coverage.


(1) The Vice President;


(2) A Member of Congress;


(3) A non-SES appointee to a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 5312 through 5317;


(4) A Senior Executive Service or Senior Foreign Service noncareer appointee; or


(5) An individual appointed by the President (or his designee) or the Vice President under section 105(a)(1), 107(a)(1), or (b)(1) of title 3, United States Code, to a position for which the maximum rate of basic pay payable is at or above the rate for Level V of the Executive Schedule.


(c) *Employees rehired after December 31, 1986, following a break in service.* An employee who is rehired after December 31, 1986, who has had a break in service and who, at the time of the last separation from the service, had at least 5 years of civilian service creditable under CSRS rules, any part of which was covered by CSRS or the Foreign Service Retirement System, is excluded from FERS coverage.


(d) *Employees who have not had a break in service ending after December 31, 1986.* An employee who has not had a break in service of more than 3 days ending after December 31, 1986, and who, as of December 31, 1986, had at least 5 years of credible civilian service under CSRS rules (even if none of this service was covered by CSRS), is excluded from FERS coverage.


(e) *Break in service.* For the purposes of paragraph (c) and (d) of this section, “break in service” means a separation from CSRS-covered service lasting at least 4 days, or a transfer or separation of less than 4 days when the employee becomes subject to automatic coverage under social security (title II of the Social Security Act and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954).


(f) *Coverage under a retirement system for NAF employees.* An employee who has elected coverage under a retirement system for NAF employees in accordance with part 847 of this chapter is excluded from FERS coverage during that and all subsequent periods of service, including service as a reemployed annuitant.


(g) *Certain Federal employees who elect to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia.* (1) A former employee of the District of Columbia who is appointed in a Federal position by the Department of Justice, or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency established by section 11233(a) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, as amended by section 7(c) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, is excluded from FERS coverage beginning on the date of the Federal appointment, if the employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia under section 3 of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, and if the following conditions are met:


(i) The employee is hired by the Department of Justice or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency during the period beginning August 5, 1997, and ending 1 year after the date on which the Lorton Correctional Complex is closed, or 1 year after the date on which the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency assumes its duties, whichever is later; and


(ii) The employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia no later than June 1, 1999 or 60 days after the date of the Federal appointment, whichever is later.


(2) An individual's election to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia remains in effect until the individual separates from service with the Department of Justice or the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency.



---

[N] [59 FR 64283, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 41720, Aug. 9, 1996; 64 FR 15289, Mar. 31, 1999]




