# § 136.160   Raisin bread, rolls, and buns.

(a) Each of the foods raisin bread, raisin rolls, and raisin buns conforms to the definition and standard of identity and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients prescribed for bread, rolls or buns by § 136.110, except that:


(1) Not less than 50 parts by weight of seeded or seedless raisins are used for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.


(2) Water extract of raisins may be used, but not to replace raisins.


(3) The baked units may bear icing or frosting.


(4) The limitation prescribed by § 136.110(c)(6) on the quantity and composition of milk and/or other dairy products does not apply.


(5) The total solids are determined by the method prescribed in § 136.110(d), except that section 14.091(b) of “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference, will apply. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) The name of the food is “raisin bread”, “raisin rolls”, “raisin buns”, as applicable. When the food contains not less than 2.56 percent by weight of whole egg solids, the name of the food may be “raisin and egg bread”, “raisin and egg rolls”, or “raisin and egg buns”, as applicable, accompanied by the statement “Contains __ medium-sized egg(s) per pound” in the manner prescribed by § 102.5(c)(3) of this chapter, the blank to be filled in with the number which represents the whole egg content of the food expressed to the nearest one-fifth egg but not greater than the amount actually present. For purposes of this regulation, whole egg solids are the edible contents of eggs calculated on a moisture-free basis and exclusive of any nonegg solids which may be present in standardized and other commercial egg products. One medium-sized egg is equivalent to 0.41 ounce of whole egg solids.



---

[N] [42 FR 14400, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11826, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10096, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24894, June 12, 1989; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




