# § 65.83   Performance requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of the transfer rack shall comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. 


(1) *98 Percent or 20 parts per million by volume standard.* Use a control device to reduce emissions of regulated material by 98 weight-percent or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent. For combustion devices, the emission reduction or concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen. The owner or operator shall meet the applicable requirements of § 65.142(c). Compliance may be achieved by using any combination of control devices. 


(2) *Flare.* Reduce emissions of regulated material using a flare meeting the applicable requirements of § 65.142(c). 


(3) *Vapor balancing.* Reduce emissions of regulated material using a vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect regulated material vapors displaced from tank trucks or railcars during loading; and to route the collected regulated material vapors to the storage vessel from which the liquid being loaded originated, or to another storage vessel connected to a common header, or to compress and route collected regulated material vapors to a process. Transfer racks for which the owner or operator is using a vapor balancing system are exempt from the closed vent system design requirements of § 65.82(b) and (d), the halogenated vent stream control requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the control device operation requirements of § 65.84(b), the monitoring requirements of § 65.86, and the requirements of subpart G of this part. 


(4) *Route to a process or fuel gas system.* Route emissions of regulated material to a process or fuel gas system. The owner or operator shall meet the applicable requirements of § 65.142(c) and is exempt from the closed vent system design requirements of paragraphs § 65.82(b) and (d), the halogenated vent stream control requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the control device operation requirements of § 65.84(b), and the monitoring requirements of § 65.86. If the emissions are routed to a process, the regulated material in the emissions shall predominantly meet one of, or a combination of, the ends specified in the following: 


(i) Recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in that process; 


(ii) Transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not regulated materials; 


(iii) Incorporated into a product; and/or 


(iv) Recovered. 


(b) *Additional control requirements for halogenated vent streams.* Halogenated vent streams from transfer racks that are combusted shall be controlled according to paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. The owner or operator shall either designate the transfer rack vent stream as a halogenated vent stream or shall determine whether the vent stream is halogenated using the procedures specified in § 65.85(c). If determined, the halogen concentration in the vent stream shall be recorded and reported in the Initial Compliance Status Report as specified in § 65.160(d). If the owner or operator designates the vent stream as a halogenated vent stream, then this shall also be recorded and reported in the Initial Compliance Status Report. 


(1) *Halogen reduction device following combustion.* If a combustion device is used to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a halogenated vent stream, then the vent stream exiting the combustion device shall be ducted to a halogen reduction device including, but not limited to, a scrubber before it is discharged to the atmosphere, and the halogen reduction device shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. The halogenated vent stream shall not be combusted using a flare. 


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the halogen reduction device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by 99 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass emission rate of total hydrogen halides and halogens to 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour) or less, whichever is less stringent. The owner or operator shall meet the applicable requirements of § 65.142(c). 


(ii) If a scrubber or other halogen reduction device was installed prior to December 31, 1992, the halogen reduction device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by 95 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass of total hydrogen halides and halogens to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour), whichever is less stringent. The owner or operator shall meet the applicable requirements of § 65.142(c). 


(2) *Halogen reduction device prior to combustion.* A halogen reduction device, such as a scrubber, or other technique may be used to make the vent stream nonhalogenated by reducing the vent stream halogen atom mass emission rate to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour) prior to any combustion control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. The mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds prior to the combustor shall be determined according to the procedures in § 65.85(c). The owner or operator shall maintain the record specified in § 65.160(d) and submit the report specified in § 65.165(d). 




