# ยง 1302.70   Transitions from Early Head Start.

(a) *Implementing transition strategies and practices.* An Early Head Start program must implement strategies and practices to support successful transitions for children and their families transitioning out of Early Head Start.


(b) *Timing for transitions.* To ensure the most appropriate placement and service following participation in Early Head Start, such programs must, at least six months prior to each child's third birthday, implement transition planning for each child and family that:


(1) Takes into account the child's developmental level and health and disability status, progress made by the child and family while in Early Head Start, current and changing family circumstances and, the availability of Head Start Preschool, other public pre-kindergarten, and other early education and child development services in the community that will meet the needs of the child and family; and


(2) Transitions the child into Head Start Preschool or another program as soon as possible after the child's third birthday but permits the child to remain in Early Head Start for a limited number of additional months following the child's third birthday if necessary for an appropriate transition.


(c) *Family collaborations.* A program must collaborate with parents of Early Head Start children to implement strategies and activities that support successful transitions from Early Head Start and, at a minimum, provide information about the child's progress during the program year and provide strategies for parents to continue their involvement in and advocacy for the education and development of their child.


(d) *Early Head Start and Head Start Preschool collaboration.* Early Head Start and Head Start Preschool programs must work together to maximize enrollment transitions from Early Head Start to Head Start Preschool, consistent with the eligibility provisions in subpart A of this part, and promote successful transitions through collaboration and communication.


(e) *Transition services for children with an IFSP.* A program must provide additional transition services for children with an IFSP, at a minimum, as described in subpart F of this part.



---

[N] [81 FR 61412, Sept. 6, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 67812, Aug. 21, 2024]




