# ยง 113.204   Mink Enteritis Vaccine, Killed Virus.

Mink Enteritis Vaccine, Killed Virus, shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids or tissues obtained from mink that have developed mink enteritis following inoculation with virulent mink enteritis virus. Each serial shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in ยง 113.200 and special requirements prescribed in this section. Any serial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released. 


(a) *Safety test.* Vaccinates used in the potency test in paragraph (b) of this section shall be observed each day prior to challenge. If unfavorable reactions attributable to the vaccine occur, the serial is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions not attributable to the vaccine occur, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated: *Provided,* That, if the test is not repeated, the serial is unsatisfactory. 


(b) *Potency test.* Bulk or final container samples of completed product shall be tested for potency using 10 mink enteritis susceptible mink (five vaccinates and five controls) as follows: 


(1) *Vaccination.* Each of the five vaccinates shall be injected with one dose of vaccine as recommended on the label and observed each day for 14 days. 


(2) *Challenge.* At least 2 weeks after the last inoculation, the five vaccinates and the five controls shall be challenged with virulent mink enteritis virus and observed each day for 12 days. Fecal material shall be collected on one day between days 4-8 (inclusive) postchallenge from each test animal that remains free of enteric signs and tested for the presence of mink enteritis virus by cell culture with fluorescent antibody examination.


(3) *Interpretation.* A serial is satisfactory if at least 80 percent of the vaccinates remain free of enteric signs and do not shed virus in the feces, while at least 80 percent of the controls develop clinical signs of mink enteritis or shed virus in the feces. If at least 80 percent of the vaccinates remain free of enteric signs and do not shed virus in the feces, while less than 80 percent of the controls develop clinical signs of mink enteritis or shed virus in the feces, the test is considered a No Test and may be repeated: *Provided,* That, if at least 80 percent of the vaccinates do not remain well and free of detectable virus in the feces, the serial is unsatisfactory.



---

[N] [39 FR 27428, July 29, 1974. Redesignated at 55 FR 35562, Aug. 31, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66786, Dec. 26, 1991; 60 FR 14361, Mar. 17, 1995]




