# § 173.301b   Additional general requirements for shipment of UN pressure receptacles.

(a) *General.* The requirements of this section are in addition to the requirements in § 173.301 and apply to the shipment of gases in UN pressure receptacles. A UN pressure receptacle, including closures, must conform to the design, construction, inspection and testing requirements specified in parts 178 and 180 of this subchapter, as applicable. Bundles of cylinders must conform to the requirements in § 178.70(e) of this subchapter.


(1) A UN pressure receptacle may not be filled and offered for transportation when damaged to such an extent that the integrity of the UN pressure receptacle or its service equipment may be affected. Prior to filling, the service equipment must be examined and found to be in good working condition (see § 178.70(d) of this subchapter). In addition, the required markings must be legible on the pressure receptacle.


(2) The gases or gas mixtures must be compatible with the UN pressure receptacle and valve materials as prescribed for metallic materials in ISO 11114-1:2012(E) and ISO 11114-1:2012/Amd 1:2017(E) (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter) and for non-metallic materials in ISO 11114-2:2013(E) (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(3) A refillable UN pressure receptacle may not be filled with a gas or gas mixture different from that previously contained in the UN pressure receptacle unless the necessary operations for change of gas service have been performed in accordance with ISO 11621 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(4) When a strong outer packaging is prescribed, for example as provided by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) or (d)(1) of this section, the UN pressure receptacles must be protected to prevent shifting. Unless otherwise specified in this part, more than one UN pressure receptacle may be enclosed in the strong outer packaging.


(b) *Individual shut-off valves and pressure relief devices.* Except for Division 2.2 permanent gases, each UN pressure receptacle must be equipped with an individual shutoff valve that must be tightly closed while in transit. Each UN pressure receptacle must be individually equipped with a pressure relief device as prescribed by § 173.301(f), except that pressure relief devices on bundles of cylinders or manifolded horizontal cylinders must have a set-to-discharge pressure that is based on the lowest marked pressure of any cylinder in the bundle or manifolded unit.


(c) *Pressure receptacle valve requirements.* (1) When the use of a valve is prescribed, the valve must conform to the requirements in ISO 10297:2014(E) and ISO 10297:2014/Amd 1:2017 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Quick release cylinder valves for specification and type testing must conform to the requirements in ISO 17871:2020 or, until December 31, 2026, ISO 17871:2015(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2026, a quick release valve conforming to the requirements in ISO 17871:2015(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) continues to be authorized for use.


(2) A UN pressure receptacle must have its valves protected from damage that could cause inadvertent release of the contents of the UN pressure receptacle by one of the following methods:


(i) By constructing the pressure receptacle so that the valves are recessed inside the neck of the UN pressure receptacle and protected by a threaded plug or cap;


(ii) By equipping the UN pressure receptacle with a valve cap conforming to the requirements of ISO 11117:1998(E), ISO 11117:2008(E) and Technical Corrigendum 1, or ISO 11117:2019(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2026, the manufacture of a valve cap conforming to the requirements ISO 11117:2008(E) and Technical Corrigendum 1 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized. Until December 31, 2014, the manufacture of a valve cap conforming to the requirements in ISO 11117:1998(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) was authorized. The cap must have vent holes of sufficient cross-sectional area to evacuate the gas if leakage occurs at the valve.




(iii) By protecting the valves with shrouds or guards conforming to the requirements in ISO 11117:2019 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2026, the valves may continue to be protected by shrouds or guards conforming to the requirements in ISO 11117:2008 and Technical Corrigendum 1 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). For metal hydride storage systems, by protecting the valves in accordance with the requirements in ISO 16111:2018(E) or, until December 31, 2026, in accordance with ISO 16111:2008(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(iv) By using valves designed and constructed with sufficient inherent strength to withstand damage, in accordance with Annex B of ISO 10297:2014(E)/Amd. 1:2017 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter);


(v) By enclosing the UN pressure receptacles in frames (*e.g.,* bundles of cylinders);


(vi) By packing the UN pressure receptacles in a strong outer package, such as a box or crate, capable of meeting the drop test specified in § 178.603 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I performance level; or


(vii) By using valves designed and constructed in accordance with Annex A of ISO 17879:2017(E) (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter) for UN pressure receptacles with self-closing valves with inherent protection (except those in acetylene service).






(d) *Non-refillable UN pressure receptacles.* (1) When the use of a valve is prescribed, the valve must conform to the requirements in ISO 11118:2015(E) and ISO 11118:2015/Amd 1:2019 until further notice. Conformance with ISO 11118:2015 without the supplemental amendment is authorized until December 31, 2026 (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(2) The receptacles must be transported as an inner package of a combination package;




(3) The receptacle must have a water capacity not exceeding 1.25 L when used for a flammable or toxic gas or 50 liters for receptacles used to contain chemical under pressure; and


(4) The receptacle is prohibited for Hazard Zone A material.


(e) *Pyrophoric gases.* A UN pressure receptacle must have valve outlets equipped with gas-tight plugs or caps when used for pyrophoric or flammable mixtures of gases containing more than 1% pyrophoric compounds. When UN pressure receptacles are manifolded in a bundle, each of the pressure receptacles must be equipped with an individual valve that must be closed while in transportation, and the outlet of the manifold valve must be equipped with a pressure retaining gas-tight plug or cap. Gas-tight plugs or caps must have threads that match those of the valve outlets.


(f) *Hydrogen bearing gases.* A steel UN pressure receptacle or a UN composite pressure receptacle with a steel liner bearing an “H” mark must be used for hydrogen bearing gases or other embrittling gases that have the potential of causing hydrogen embrittlement.


(g) *Composite cylinders in underwater use.* A composite cylinder certified to ISO-11119-2 or ISO-11119-3 may not be used for underwater applications unless the cylinder is manufactured in accordance with the requirements for underwater use and is marked “UW” as prescribed in § 178.71(q)(18) of this subchapter.



---

[N] [71 FR 33882, June 12, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 54395, Sept. 14, 2006; 76 FR 3380, Jan. 19, 2011; 78 FR 1091, Jan. 7, 2013; 78 FR 65485, Oct. 31, 2013; 80 FR 1161, Jan. 8, 2015; 82 FR 15891, Mar. 30, 2017; 85 FR 27896, May 11, 2020; 85 FR 83400, Dec. 21, 2020; 87 FR 44996, July 26, 2022; 89 FR 25487, Apr. 10, 2024]




