# ยง 1192.3   Definitions.

*Accessible* means, with respect to vehicles covered by this part, compliance with the provisions of this part. 


*Automated guideway transit (AGT) system* means a fixed-guideway transportation system which operates with automated (driverless) individual vehicles or multi-car trains. Service may be on a fixed schedule or in response to a passenger-activated call button. Such systems using small, slow moving vehicles, often operated in airports and amusement parks, are sometimes called *people movers.*

*Bus* means any of several types of self-propelled vehicles, generally rubber tired, intended for use on city streets, highways, and busways, including but not limited to minibuses, forty- and thirty-foot transit buses, articulated buses, double-deck buses, and electric powered trolley buses, used to provide designated or specified public transportation services. Self-propelled, rubber tire vehicles designed to look like antique or vintage trolleys or streetcars are considered buses. 


*Commuter rail car* means a rail passenger car obtained by a commuter authority (as defined by 49 CFR 37.3) for use in commuter rail transportation. 


*Commuter rail transportation* means short-haul rail passenger service operating in metropolitan and suburban areas, operated by a commuter authority, whether within or across the geographical boundaries of a state, usually characterized by reduced fare, multiple ride, and commutation tickets and by morning and evening peak period operations. This term does not include light or rapid rail transportation. 


*High speed rail* means an intercity-type rail service which operates primarily on a dedicated guideway or track not used, for the most part, by freight, including, but not limited to, trains on welded rail, magnetically levitated (maglev) vehicles on a special guideway, or other advanced technology vehicles, designed to travel at speeds in excess of those possible on other types of railroads. 


*Intercity rail passenger car* means a rail car intended for use by revenue passengers obtained by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak) for use in intercity rail transportation. 


*Intercity rail transportation* means transportation provided by Amtrak. 


*Light rail* means a streetcar-type vehicle railway operated on city streets, semi-private rights-of-way, or exclusive private rights-of-way. Service may be provided by step-entry vehicles or by level-boarding. 


*Over-the-road bus* means a vehicle characterized by an elevated passenger deck located over a baggage compartment. 


*Rapid rail* means a subway-type transit vehicle railway operated on exclusive private rights-of-way with high-level platform stations. Rapid rail may also operate on elevated or at-grade level track separated from other traffic. 


*Tram* means any of several types of motor vehicles consisting of a tractor unit, with or without passenger accommodations, and one or more passenger trailer units, including but not limited to vehicles providing shuttle service to remote parking areas, between hotels and other public accommodations, and between and within amusement parks and other recreation areas. 



---

[N] [56 FR 45558, Sept. 6, 1991, as amended at 81 FR 90624, Dec. 14, 2016]




