# ยง 1239.2   Cancellation of notice to appear.

(a) *Prior to commencement of proceedings.* For provisions relating to the authority of an immigration officer to cancel a notice to appear prior to the vesting of jurisdiction with the immigration judge, see 8 CFR 239.2(a) and (b).


(b) *Ordering termination or dismissal.* After commencement of proceedings, an immigration judge or Board member shall have authority to resolve or dispose of a case through an order of dismissal or an order of termination. An immigration judge or Board member may enter an order of dismissal in cases where DHS moves for dismissal pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. A motion to dismiss removal proceedings for a reason other than those authorized by paragraph (c) of this section shall be deemed a motion to terminate and adjudicated pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.1(m), pertaining to cases before the Board, or 8 CFR 1003.18(d), pertaining to cases before the immigration court, as applicable.


(c) *Motion to dismiss.* After commencement of proceedings pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.14, government counsel or an officer enumerated in 8 CFR 239.1(a) may move for dismissal of the matter on the grounds set out under 8 CFR 239.2(a). Dismissal of the matter shall be without prejudice to the alien or the Department of Homeland Security.


(d) *Motion for remand.* After commencement of the hearing, government counsel or an officer enumerated in 8 CFR 239.1(a) may move for remand of the matter to the Department of Homeland Security on the ground that the foreign relations of the United States are involved and require further consideration. Remand of the matter shall be without prejudice to the alien or the Department of Homeland Security.


(e) *Warrant of arrest.* When a notice to appear is canceled or proceedings are terminated under this section any outstanding warrant of arrest is canceled.


(f) [Reserved]



---

[N] [62 FR 10366, Mar. 6, 1997. Duplicated from part 239 at 68 FR 9838, Feb. 28, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 44907, July 28, 2004; 89 FR 46794, May 29, 2024]




