# ยง 191.5   Immediate notice of certain incidents.

(a) At the earliest practicable moment following discovery, but no later than one hour after confirmed discovery, each operator must give notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section of each incident as defined in ยง 191.3.


(b) Each notice required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made to the National Response Center either by telephone to 800-424-8802 (in Washington, DC, 202 267-2675) or electronically at *http://www.nrc.uscg.mil* and must include the following information:


(1) Names of operator and person making report and their telephone numbers.


(2) The location of the incident.


(3) The time of the incident. 


(4) The number of fatalities and personal injuries, if any. 


(5) All other significant facts that are known by the operator that are relevant to the cause of the incident or extent of the damages.


(c) Within 48 hours after the confirmed discovery of an incident, to the extent practicable, an operator must revise or confirm its initial telephonic notice required in paragraph (b) of this section with an estimate of the amount of product released, an estimate of the number of fatalities and injuries, and all other significant facts that are known by the operator that are relevant to the cause of the incident or extent of the damages. If there are no changes or revisions to the initial report, the operator must confirm the estimates in its initial report.



---

[N] [Amdt. 191-4, 47 FR 32720, July 29, 1982, as amended by Amdt. 191-5, 49 FR 18960, May 3, 1984; Amdt. 191-8, 54 FR 40878, Oct. 4, 1989; 75 FR 72905, Nov. 26, 2010; Amdt. 191-25, 82 FR 7997, Jan. 23, 2017]




