# § 555.45   Original license or permit.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Licenses and permits issued on and after May 24, 2003*—(1) *License.* Any person who intends to engage in the business as an importer of, manufacturer of, or dealer in explosive materials, or who has not timely submitted an application for renewal of a previous license issued under this part, must file an application for License, Explosives, ATF F 5400.13, with ATF in accordance with the instructions on the form. ATF Form 5400.13 may be obtained by contacting any ATF office. The application must:


(i) Be executed under the penalties of perjury and the penalties imposed by 18 U.S.C. 844(a);


(ii) Include appropriate identifying information concerning each responsible person;


(iii) Include a photograph and fingerprints for each responsible person;


(iv) Include the names of and appropriate identifying information regarding all employees who will be authorized by the applicant to possess explosive materials by submitting ATF F 5400.28 for each employee; and


(v) Include the appropriate fee in the form of money order or check made payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.


(2) *User permit and limited permit.* Except as provided in § 555.41(b)(1)(iv), any person who intends to acquire explosive materials in the State in which that person resides or acquire explosive materials from a licensee or holder of a user permit in a State other than the State in which that person resides, or from a foreign country, or who intends to transport explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce, or who has not timely submitted an application for renewal of a previous permit issued under this part, must file an application for Permit, Explosives, ATF F 5400.16 or Permit, User Limited Display Fireworks, ATF F 5400.21 with ATF in accordance with the instructions on the form. ATF Form 5400.16 and ATF Form 5400.21 may be obtained by contacting any ATF office. The application must:


(i) Be executed under the penalties of perjury and the penalties imposed by 18 U.S.C. 844(a);


(ii) Include a photograph, fingerprints, and appropriate identifying information for each responsible person;


(iii) Include the names of and appropriate identifying information regarding all employees who will be authorized by the applicant to possess explosive materials by submitting ATF F 5400.28 for each employee; and


(iv) Include the appropriate fee in the form of money order or check made payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.


(3) The Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, will conduct background checks on responsible persons and employees authorized by the applicant to possess explosive materials in accordance with § 555.33. If it is determined that any responsible person or employee is described in any paragraph of section 842(i) of the Act, the applicant must submit an amended application indicating removal or reassignment of that person before the license or permit will be issued.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-200, 50 FR 10497, Mar. 15, 1985, as amended by T.D. ATF-400, 63 FR 45002, Aug. 24, 1998; ATF No. 1, 68 FR 13785, Mar. 20, 2003; ATF 2013R-9F, 79 FR 46693, Aug. 11, 2014; ATF 2017R-21, 84 FR 13799, Apr. 8, 2019]




