# § 1.904(j)-1   Certain individuals exempt from foreign tax credit limitation.

(a) *Election available only if all foreign taxes are creditable foreign taxes.* A taxpayer may elect to apply section 904(j) for a taxable year only if all of the taxes for which a credit is allowable to the taxpayer under section 901 for the taxable year (without regard to carryovers) are creditable foreign taxes (as defined in section 904(j)(3)(B)).


(b) *Coordination with carryover rules*—(1) *No carryovers to or from election year.* If the taxpayer elects to apply section 904(j) for any taxable year, then no taxes paid or accrued by the taxpayer during such taxable year may be deemed paid or accrued under section 904(c) in any other taxable year, and no taxes paid or accrued in any other taxable year may be deemed paid or accrued under section 904(c) in such taxable year.


(2) *Carryovers to and from other years determined without regard to election years.* The amount of the foreign taxes paid or accrued, and the amount of the foreign source taxable income, in any year for which the taxpayer elects to apply section 904(j) shall not be taken into account in determining the amount of any carryover to or from any other taxable year. However, an election to apply section 904(j) to any year does not extend the number of taxable years to which unused foreign taxes may be carried under section 904(c) and § 1.904-2(b). Therefore, in determining the number of such carryover years, the taxpayer must take into account years to which a section 904(j) election applies.


(3) *Determination of amount of creditable foreign taxes.* Otherwise allowable carryovers of foreign tax credits from other taxable years shall not be taken into account in determining whether the amount of creditable foreign taxes paid or accrued by an individual during a taxable year exceeds $300 ($600 in the case of a joint return) for purposes of section 904(j)(2)(B).


(c) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section:


(d) *Effective date.* Section 1.904(j)-1 applies to taxable years beginning after July 20, 2004.



---

[N] [T.D. 9141, 69 FR 43316, July 20, 2004]




