# ยง 386.3   Limitations on assistance.

(a) The total amount of credit assistance offered to any project under this part shall not exceed 49% of the reasonably anticipated eligible project costs, or, if the secured loan does not receive an investment grade rating, the total amount of credit assistance shall not exceed the amount of the senior project obligations of the project (33 U.S.C. 3908(b)(2)(B)).


(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may offer credit assistance in excess of 49% of the reasonably anticipated eligible project costs as long as such excess assistance combined for all projects does not require greater than 25% of the subsidy amount made available for the fiscal year, per 33 U.S.C. 3912(d).


(1) Use of the authority to offer credit assistance in excess of 49% of the anticipated eligible project costs shall be considered on a case by case basis.


(2) In the event this authority is used, all other criteria and requirements described in this part must be met and adhered to.


(c) For each project receiving credit assistance, total Federal assistance may not exceed 80% of the total project costs, except for certain rural water projects authorized to be carried out by the Secretary of the Interior that includes among its beneficiaries a federally recognized Indian Tribe and for which the authorized Federal share of the total project costs is greater than 80%, and in accordance with 85 FR 39189 (*see* division D of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Pub. L. 116-94)).


(d) Proceeds from the credit assistance shall not be utilized to provide cash contributions to the Corps for project related costs, except for such fees as allowed by 33 U.S.C. 3908(b)(7), limited to the application, transaction processing, and servicing fees as described in ยง 386.15.


(e) Costs incurred, and the value of any integral in-kind contributions made, before receipt of credit assistance may be considered in calculating eligible project costs only upon approval of the Secretary. Such costs and integral in-kind contributions must be directly related to the development or execution of the project and must be eligible project costs as defined in ยง 386.2. In addition, such costs, excluding the value of any integral in-kind contributions, are payable from the proceeds of the Federal credit instrument and shall be considered incurred costs for purposes of paragraph (h) of this section. Capitalized interest on the Federal credit instrument is not eligible for calculating eligible project costs.


(f) No costs financed internally or with interim funding may be refinanced under this part later than a year following substantial completion of the project.


(g) The Secretary shall not obligate funds in the form of a loan or loan guarantee for a project prior to:


(1) To issuance of a determination that the Federal action is eligible for a Categorical Exclusion:


(2) Issuance of a Finding of No Significant Impact; or


(3) Issuance of a Record of Decision under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*

(h) The Secretary shall fund a secured loan based on the project's financing needs. The credit agreement shall include the anticipated schedule for such loan disbursements. Actual disbursements will be based on incurred costs, and in accordance with the approved construction plan, as evidenced by invoices or other documentation acceptable to the Secretary.


(i) The interest rate on a secured loan will be equal to or greater than the yield on U.S. Treasury securities of comparable maturity on the date of execution of the credit agreement as identified through use of the daily rate tables published by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for the State and Local Government Series (SLGS) investments. The yield on comparable Treasury securities will be estimated by adding one basis point to the SLGS daily rate with a maturity that is closest to the weighted average loan life of the Federal credit instrument, per 33 U.S.C. 3908(b)(4).


(j) The final maturity date of a secured loan will be the earlier of the date that is 35 years after the date of substantial completion of the project, as determined by the Secretary and identified in the credit agreement, or if the useful life of the project, as determined by the Secretary, is less than 35 years, the useful life of the project; however, the final maturity date of a secured loan to a State infrastructure financing authority will be not later than 35 years after the date on which amounts are first disbursed. In determining the useful life of the project, for the purposes of establishing the final maturity date of the Federal credit instrument, the Secretary will consider the useful economic life of the asset(s) being financed.


(k) A secured loan will not be subordinated to the claims of any holder of project obligations in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation of the borrower of the project (33 U.S.C. 3908(b)(6)).


(l) The Corps will establish a repayment schedule for a secured loan or loan guarantee based on the projected cash flow from project revenues and other repayment sources. Scheduled loan or loan guarantee repayments of principal and interest on a secured loan or loan guarantee will commence not later than 5 years after the projected date of substantial completion of the project at the time of execution of the Loan Agreement or Loan Guarantee Agreement, as determined by the Secretary (33 U.S.C. 3908(c)(A)); however, scheduled loan or loan guarantee repayments of principal and interest on a secured loan to a State infrastructure financing authority will commence not later than 5 years after the date on which amounts are first disbursed. The final maturity of the credit agreement shall be in no instance later than 35 years after the projected date of substantial completion of the project at the time of execution of the Loan Agreement or Loan Guarantee Agreement.






