# § 1501.9   Public and governmental engagement.

(a) *Purpose and responsibility.* The purpose of public engagement is to inform the public of an agency's proposed action, allow for meaningful engagement during the NEPA process, and ensure decision makers are informed by the views of the public. The purpose of governmental engagement is to identify the potentially affected Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments, invite them to serve as cooperating agencies, as appropriate, and ensure that participating agencies have opportunities to engage in the environmental review process, as appropriate. This section sets forth agencies' responsibilities and best practices to conduct public and governmental engagement. Agencies shall determine the appropriate methods of public and governmental engagement for their proposed actions.


(b) *Determination of scope.* Agencies shall use public and governmental engagement, as appropriate, to inform the level of review for and scope of analysis of a proposed action, consistent with § 1501.3 of this subchapter. For environmental impact statements, in addition to the requirements of this section, agencies also shall comply with the requirements for scoping set forth in § 1502.4 of this subchapter. For environmental assessments, in addition to the requirements of this section, agencies should consider applying the requirements for scoping set forth in § 1502.4 of this subchapter, as appropriate.


(c) *Outreach and notification.* Agencies shall:


(1) Invite the participation of any likely affected Federal, State, Tribal, and local agencies and governments, as early as practicable, including, as appropriate, as cooperating agencies under § 1501.8 of this subchapter;


(2) Conduct, as appropriate, early engagement with likely affected or interested members of the public (including those who might not be in accord with the action), unless there is a limited exception under § 1507.3(d)(3) of this subchapter; and


(3) Consider what methods of outreach and notification are necessary and appropriate based on the likely affected entities and persons; the scope, scale, and complexity of the proposed action and alternatives; the degree of public interest; and other relevant factors. When selecting appropriate methods for providing public notification, agencies shall consider the ability of affected persons and agencies to access electronic media and the primary languages of affected persons.


(4) Publish notification of proposed actions they are analyzing through an environmental impact statement, including through a notice of intent consistent with § 1502.4 of this subchapter.


(5) Provide public notification of NEPA-related hearings, public meetings, and other opportunities for public engagement, and the availability of environmental documents to inform those persons and agencies who may be interested or affected by their proposed actions.


(i) The agency shall notify those entities and persons who have requested notification on a particular action and those who have requested regular notification from the agency on its actions.


(ii) In the case of an action with effects of national concern, notification shall also include publication of a notice in the _Federal Register_.


(iii) In the case of an action with effects primarily of local concern, the notification may include distribution to or through:


(A) State, Tribal, and local governments and agencies that may be interested or affected by the proposed action.


(B) Following the affected State or Tribe's public notification procedures for comparable actions.


(C) Publication in local newspapers having general circulation.


(D) Other local media.


(E) Potentially interested community organizations, including small business associations.


(F) Publication in newsletters that may be expected to reach potentially interested persons.


(G) Direct mailing to owners and occupants of nearby or affected property.


(H) Posting of notification on- and off-site in the area where the action is to be located.


(I) Electronic media (*e.g.,* a project or agency website, dashboard, email list, or social media). Agencies should establish email notification lists or similar methods for the public to easily request electronic notifications for a proposed action.


(6) Make environmental impact statements, the comments received, and any underlying documents available to the public pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), and without charge to the extent practicable.


(d) *Public meetings and hearings.* Agencies shall hold or sponsor public hearings, public meetings, or other opportunities for public engagement whenever appropriate or in accordance with statutory or regulatory requirements or applicable agency NEPA procedures. Agencies may conduct public hearings and public meetings by means of electronic communication except where another format is required by law. When determining the format for a public hearing or public meeting, such as whether an in-person or virtual meeting, or formal hearing or listening session is most appropriate, agencies shall consider the needs of affected communities. When accepting comments for electronic or virtual public hearings or meetings, agencies shall allow the public to submit comments electronically, by regular mail, or by other appropriate methods. Agencies should make a draft environmental document available to the public at least 15 days in advance when it is the subject of a public hearing or meeting unless the purpose of such hearing or meeting is to provide information for the development of the document.


(e) *Agency procedures.* Agencies shall make diligent efforts to engage the public in preparing and implementing their NEPA procedures (§ 1507.3 of this subchapter).






