# § 4284.1108   U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.

(a) *Departmental regulations.* All projects funded under this subpart are subject to the provisions of the departmental regulations, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference herein.


(b) *Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.* The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, 15 U.S.C. 1691 *et seq.* and 7 CFR part 15d, Nondiscrimination in Programs or Activities Conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture. The Agency will not discriminate against applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*

(c) *Civil rights compliance.* Recipients of grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.,* Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.,* and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794. This includes collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. These data must be available to conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR 1901.204.


(1) Initial compliance reviews will be conducted by the Agency prior to funds being obligated.


(2) Grants will require one subsequent compliance review following project completion. This will occur after the last disbursement of grant funds has been made.


(d) *Environmental analysis.* 7 CFR part 1970 outlines environmental procedures and requirements for this subpart. Prospective applicants are advised to contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after they decide to pursue any form of financial assistance directly or indirectly available through the Agency. The applicant will be notified of all specific compliance requirements, including:


(1) Any required environmental review must be completed by the Agency prior to the Agency obligating any funds or the applicant taking any action;


(2) A site visit by the Agency may be scheduled, if necessary, to determine the scope of the review. An environmental review may include the publication of public notices, and consultation with State and Tribal Historic Preservation Offices and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.




(e) *Discrimination complaints*—(1) *Who may file.* Persons or a specific class of persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally, or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250.


(2) *Time for filing.* A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless a request for a waiver of the 180-day timeline is requested and the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.


(3) *Filing a complaint.* To file a program discrimination complaint, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, AD-3027, found online at *https://www.usda.gov/oascr/how-to-file-a-program-discrimination-complaint* and at any USDA office or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992. Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by:


(i) *Mail:* U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410;


(ii) *Fax:* (202) 690-7442; or


(iii) *Email:**OAC@usda.gov.*

