# § 4220.3   Requests for PBGC approval.

(a) *Filing of request*—(1) *In general.* A request for approval of an amendment filed with the PBGC in accordance with this section shall constitute notice to the PBGC for purposes of the 90-day period specified in section 4220 of ERISA. A request is treated as filed on the date on which a request containing all information required by paragraph (d) of this section is received by the PBGC. Subpart C of part 4000 of this chapter provides rules for determining when the PBGC receives a submission. 


(2) *Method of filing.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart A of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of filing with the PBGC under this part. 


(b) *Who may request.* The plan sponsor, or a duly authorized representative acting on behalf of a plan sponsor, shall sign and submit the request. 


(c) *Where to file.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file. 


(d) *Information.* Each request filed shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name of the plan for which the amendment is being submitted, and the name, address and the telephone number of the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative. 


(2) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned by the IRS to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) assigned by the plan sponsor to the plan, and, if different, the EIN or PIN last filed with PBGC. If no EIN or PIN has been assigned, that fact must be indicated. 


(3) A copy of the amendment as adopted, including its proposed effective date. 


(4) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation of the plan. 


(5) A statement containing a certification that notice of the adoption of the amendment has been given to all employers who have an obligation to contribute under the plan and to all employee organizations representing employees covered by the plan. 


(6) Any other information that the plan sponsor believes to be pertinent to its request. 


(e) *Supplemental information.* The PBGC may require a plan sponsor to submit any other information that the PBGC determines to be necessary to review a request under this part. The PBGC may suspend the running of the 90-day period pursuant to § 4220.4(c), pending the submission of the supplemental information.


(f) *Computation of time.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter to compute any time period under this part.



---

[N] [61 FR 34108, July 1, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 61356, Oct. 28, 2003]




