# ยง 884.1720   Gynecologic laparoscope and accessories.

(a) *Identification.* A gynecologic laparoscope is a device used to permit direct viewing of the organs within the peritoneum by a telescopic system introduced through the abdominal wall. It is used to perform diagnostic and surgical procedures on the female genital organs. This generic type of device may include: Trocar and cannula, instruments used through an operating channel, scope preheater, light source and cables, and component parts. 


(b) *Classification.* (1) Class II (performance standards).


(2) Class I for gynecologic laparoscope accessories that are not part of a specialized instrument or device delivery system, do not have adapters, connector channels, or do not have portals for electrosurgical, lasers, or other power sources. Such gynecologic laparosope accessory instruments include: the lens cleaning brush, biopsy brush, clip applier (without clips), applicator, cannula (without trocar or valves), ligature carrier/needle holder, clamp/hemostat/grasper, curette, instrument guide, ligature passing and knotting instrument, suture needle (without suture), retractor, mechanical (noninflatable), snare, stylet, forceps, dissector, mechanical (noninflatable), scissors, and suction/irrigation probe. The devices subject to this paragraph (b)(2) are exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, subject to the limitations in ยง 884.9.



---

[N] [45 FR 12684, Feb. 26, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 1124, Jan. 16, 1996; 66 FR 38808, July 25, 2001]




