# ยง 385.11   Implementation process for projects.

Generally, the Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall develop and implement projects in accordance with the process that is shown in figure 1 in Appendix A of this part. Typical steps in this process involve: 


(a) *Project Management Plan.* The Project Management Plan describes the activities, tasks, and responsibilities that will be used to produce and deliver the products necessary to implement the project. 


(b) *Project Implementation Report.* The Project Implementation Report provides information on plan formulation and evaluation, engineering and design, estimated benefits and costs, and environmental effects to bridge the gap between the conceptual design included in the Plan and the detailed design necessary to proceed to construction. The Project Implementation Reports will also set forth additional information and analyses necessary for the Secretary of the Army or Congress to approve the project for implementation. 


(c) *Plans and specifications.* During this phase, final design of the project is completed and plans and specifications are prepared. Plans and specifications contain the information necessary to bid and construct the project. 


(d) *Real estate acquisition.* The lands, easements, and rights-of way, and relocations necessary for the project are acquired prior to construction. 


(e) *Construction.* This phase is the actual construction of a project's components and includes an interim operation and monitoring period to ensure that the project operates as designed. 


(f) *Operation.* After construction of the project has been completed, it is operated in accordance with the System Operating Manual and the Project Operating Manual. 


(g) *Monitoring and assessment.* After the project has been constructed, monitoring is conducted as necessary to assess the effectiveness of the project and to provide information that will be used for the adaptive management program. 




