# ยง 200.3   Forest Service functions.

(a) *Legislative authority.* The basic laws authorizing activities of the Forest Service are set forth in the U.S.C. in title 7 (Agriculture), chapters 14, 17, 33, 55, 59, and 61; title 16 (Conservation), chapters 2, 3, 4, 5C, 6, 23, 27, 28, 30, 36, and 37; title 29 (Labor), chapter 17; and title 43 (Public Lands), chapters 22 and 35. 


(b) *Work of the Forest Service.* Under delegated authority from the Secretary of Agriculture, the broad responsibilities of the Forest Service are: 


(1) *Leadership in forestry.* The Forest Service provides overall leadership in forest and forest-range conservation, development, and use. This involves determination of forestry conditions and requirements, and recommendations of policies and programs needed to keep the Nation's private and public lands fully productive. 


(2) *National Forest System administration.* (i) The Forest Service administers and manages the National Forest System lands in accordance with the Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of June 12, 1960 (16 U.S.C. 528-531); the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of August 17, 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600-1614); and the National Forest Management Act of October 22, 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a, 476, 500, 513-516, 521b; 576b, 1600-1602, 1604, 1606, 1608-1614). 


(ii) The National Forest System comprises about 188 million acres of land in the National Forests, National Grasslands, and other areas which have been transferred to the Forest Service for administration. On these public lands:


(A) Forestry methods are applied in growing and harvesting timber, 


(B) Forage is scientifically managed for the use of domestic livestock whose numbers are kept in balance with the carrying capacity of the range, 


(C) Wildlife habitat and species are managed, 


(D) Watersheds are managed to safeguard the water supply and stabilize streamflow, 


(E) Recreation resources are managed for public enjoyment and benefit, 


(F) Many forms of land and resource use are granted under permit or lease, and 


(G) Physical and resource improvements needed to develop, protect, and use all resources are built and maintained. 


(3) *Cooperative forestry.* The Forest Service carries out cooperative forestry programs for public benefit through programs initiated by State, county, and other Federal agencies in accordance with the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of July 1, 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101-2111). These programs are directed at the protection, development, and sustained production of all forestry resources, both public and private. 


(4) *Forest research.* The Forest Service conducts research on problems involving protection, development, management, renewal, and continuous use of all resources, products, values, and services of forest lands in accordance with the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of June 30, 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1641-1647). Research is conducted on: 


(i) Forest and range management, including the five basic resources of timber, forest soil and water, range forage, wildlife and fish habitat, and forest recreation, 


(ii) Forest protection from fire, insects, and disease, 


(iii) Forest products and engineering, and 


(iv) Forest resource economics including forest survey, forest economics, and forest products marketing.



---

[N] [44 FR 37505, June 27, 1979] 




