# § 10.31   Citizen petitions and petitions for stay of action related to abbreviated new drug applications, certain new drug applications, or certain biologics license applications.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to a citizen petition or petition for stay of action that meets all of the following criteria:


(1) The petition requests that the Commissioner take any form of action that could, if taken, delay approval of an abbreviated new drug application submitted under section 505(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, a new drug application submitted through the pathway described by section 505(b)(2) of the Federal, Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or a biologics license application submitted under section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act.


(2) The petition is submitted on or after September 27, 2007.


(3) The petition is submitted in writing and under § 10.30 (for citizen petitions) or § 10.35 (for petitions for stay of action).


(b) *Date of submission.* A petition subject to this section and submitted in accordance with § 10.20, § 10.30, § 10.31, or § 10.35 is regarded as submitted on the date on which the petition is received by the Dockets Management Staff.


(c) *Certification.* (1) FDA will not consider for review a petition that is subject to this section unless the petition is in writing and contains the following certification:


(2) The certification in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must contain one or more specific dates (month, day, and year) in the first blank space provided. If different categories of information become known at different times, the certification must contain each estimated relevant date. The information associated with a particular date must be identified.


(d) *Verification.* (1) FDA will not accept for review any supplemental information or comments on a petition that is subject to this section unless the supplemental information or comments are in writing and contain the following verification:


(2) The verification in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must contain one or more specific dates (month, day, and year) in the first blank space provided. If different categories of information become known at different times, the verification must contain each estimated relevant date. The information associated with a particular date must be identified.



---

[N] [81 FR 78506, Nov. 8, 2016]




