# § 75.4   Interstate movement of equine infectious anemia reactors.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purpose of this section, the following terms have the meanings set forth in this paragraph. 


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this title to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A, and subchapters B, C and D of this chapter, and to perform functions required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS or Service).


*Animals.* Cattle, sheep, goats, other ruminants, swine, horses, asses, mules, zebras, dogs, and poultry.


*APHIS representative.* An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the functions involved.


*Approved stockyard.* A stockyard, livestock market, or other premises, under state or federal veterinary supervision where horses or other equines are assembled for sale purposes, and which has been approved by the Administrator under § 71.20 of this chapter.


*Certificate.* An official document issued by a State representative, APHIS representative, or an accredited veterinarian at the point of origin of the interstate movement on which are listed: (1) The description, including age, breed, color, sex, and distinctive markings when present (such as brands, tattoos, scars or blemishes), of each reactor to be moved; (2) the number of reactors covered by the document; (3) the purpose for which the reactors are to be moved; (4) the points of origin and destination; (5) consignor; and (6) the consignee; and which states that each reactor identified on the certificate meets the requirements of § 75.4(b). 


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State. 


*Official seal.* A serially numbered metal or plastic strip, or a serially numbered button, consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, which forms a loop when the ends are engaged and which cannot be reused if opened. It is applied by an APHIS representative or State representative.


*Officially identified.* The permanent identification of a reactor using the National Uniform Tag code number assigned by the United States Department of Agriculture to the State in which the reactor was tested, followed by the letter “A”, 
1 which markings shall be permanently applied to the reactor by an APHIS representative, State representative or accredited veterinarian who shall use for the purpose a hot iron or chemical brand, freezemarking or a lip tattoo. If hot iron or chemical branding or freezemarking is used, the markings shall be not less than two inches high and shall be applied to the left shoulder or left side of the neck of the reactor. If a lip tattoo is used, each character of the tattoo shall be not less than one inch high and three-fourths of an inch wide and shall be applied to the inside surface of the upper lip of the reactor. 


*Operator.* The individual responsible for the day-to-day operations of the specifically approved stockyard.


*Permit.* An official document (VS Form 1-27 or a State form which contains the same information, but not a “permit for entry”) issued by an APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian which lists the owner's name and address, points of origin and destination, number of animals covered, purpose of the movement, and one of the following: The individual animal registered breed association registration tattoo, individual animal registered breed association registration number, or similar individual identification, including name, age, sex, breed, color, and markings.


*Reactor.* Any horse, ass, mule, pony or zebra which is subjected to an official test in accordance with the regulations in § 71.22 of this subchapter and found positive. 


*State.* Any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States. 


*State animal health official.* The individual employed by a State who is responsible for livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs. 


*State representative.* An individual employed in animal health activities of a State or a State's political subdivision, who is authorized by that State to perform the function involved under a cooperative agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Veterinarian in Charge.* The veterinary official of APHIS who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform the animal health activities of APHIS in the State concerned.


(b) *Interstate movement.* No reactor may be moved interstate unless the reactor is officially identified, is accompanied by a certificate, and meets the conditions of either paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section: *Provided,* That official identification is not necessary if the reactor is moved directly to slaughter under a permit and in a conveyance sealed with an official seal:


(1) The reactor is moved interstate for immediate slaughter, either to a Federally inspected slaughtering establishment operating under the provisions of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) or to a State-inspected slaughtering establishment that has inspection by a State representative at time of slaughter; or 


(2) The reactor is moved interstate to a diagnostic or research facility after the individual issuing the certificate has consulted with the State animal health official in the State of destination and has determined that the reactor to be moved interstate will be maintained in isolation sufficient to prevent the transmission of equine infectious anemia to other horses, asses, ponies, mules, or zebras, and will remain quarantined under State authority at the diagnostic or research facility until natural death, slaughter, or until disposed of by euthanasia; or 


(3) The reactor is moved interstate to its home farm after the individual issuing the certificate has consulted with the State animal health official in the State of destination and has determined that the reactor to be moved interstate will be maintained in isolation sufficient to prevent the transmission of equine infectious anemia to other horses, asses, ponies, mules, or zebras, and will remain quarantined under State authority on the reactor's home farm until natural death, slaughter, or until disposed of by euthanasia; and 


(4) The reactor is moved interstate through no more than one approved stockyard for sale for immediate slaughter, and is moved within five days of its arrival at the approved stockyard directly to:


(i) Slaughter at a federally inspected slaughtering establishment operating under the provisions of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*), or, 


(ii) Slaughter at a state-inspected slaughtering establishment that has inspection by a state representative at the time of slaughter, or, 


(iii) The home farm of the reactor in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

 



---

[N] [51 FR 12597, Apr. 14, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 30327, Aug. 26, 1986; 55 FR 13506, 13507, Apr. 11, 1990; 57 FR 2440, Jan. 22, 1992; 57 FR 57337, Dec. 4, 1992; 59 FR 67133, Dec. 29, 1994; 59 FR 67613, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 14619, Mar. 20, 1995; 62 FR 27936, May 22, 1997; 66 FR 21062, Apr. 27, 2001; 85 FR 4195, Jan. 24, 2020]




