# § 721.8079   Isophorone diisocyanate neopentyl glycol adipate polyurethane prepolymer.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as isophorone diisocyanate neopentyl glycol adipate polyurethane prepolymer (PMN P-94-1743) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Non-spray uses are exempt from the provisions of this rule.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). Manufacturers, importers, and processors who implement the product stewardship provisions of the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these substances are exempt from the requirements of § 721.63 and § 721.72.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, and processors who implement the product stewardship provisions and keep records as required by the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these substances are exempt from the requirements of § 721.125.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.


(4) *Applicability of § 721.5.* The provisions of § 721.5 do not apply to manufacturers, importers, and processors, implementing the product stewardship provisions in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance.



---

[N] [63 FR 3435, Jan. 22, 1998]




