# § 301.6104(b)-1   Publicity of information on certain information returns.

(a) *In general.* The following information, together with the name and address of the organization or trust furnishing such information, shall be a matter of public record:


(1) Except as otherwise provided in section 6104 and the regulations thereunder, the information required by section 6033.


(2) The information furnished pursuant to section 6034 (relating to returns by certain trusts) on Form 1041-A.


(3) The information required to be furnished by section 6058.


(b) *Nondisclosure of certain information*—(1) *Names and addresses of contributors.* The names and addresses of contributors to an organization other than a private foundation shall not be made available for public inspection under section 6104(b).


(2) *Amounts of contributions.* The amounts of contributions and bequests to an organization shall be available for public inspection unless the disclosure of such information can reasonably be expected to identify any contributor. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the amounts of contributions and bequests to a private foundation shall be available for public inspection.


(3) *Foreign organizations.* The names, addresses, and amounts of contributions or bequests of persons who are not citizens of the United States to a foreign organization described in section 4948(b) shall not be made available for public inspection under section 6104(b).


(4) *Confidential business information.* Confidential business information of contributors to any trust described in section 501(c)(21) (black lung trusts) shall not be available for public inspection under section 6104(b) provided:


(i) A request if filed with the office with which the trustee filed the documents in which the information to be withheld is contained.


(ii) Such request clearly specifies the information to be withheld and the reasons supporting the request for withholding, and


(iii) The Commissioner determines that such information is confidential business information.


(c) *Place of inspection.* Information furnished on the public portion of returns (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) shall be made available for public inspection at the Freedom of Information Reading Room. Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20224, and at the office of any district director.


(d) *Procedure for public inspection*—(1) *Requests for inspection.* Information furnished on the public portion of returns (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) shall be available for public inspection only upon request. Requests for public inspection must be in writing to or at any of the offices mentioned in paragraph (c) of this section. Persons submitting requests for inspection must provide the name and address of the organization that filed the return, the type of return, and the year for which the organization filed.


(2) *Time and extent of inspection.* A person requesting public inspection in the manner specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall be notified by the Internal Revenue Service when the material he desires to inspect will be made available for his inspection. Information on returns required by sections 6033, 6034, and 6058 will be made available for public inspection at such reasonable and proper times, and under such conditions, that will not interfere with their use by the Internal Revenue Service and will not exclude other persons from inspecting them. In addition the Commissioner, Director of the Service Center, or district director may limit the number of returns to be made available to any person for inspection on a given date. Inspection will be allowed only in the presence of an internal revenue officer or employee and only during the regular hours of business of the Internal Revenue Service office.


(3) *Returns available.* Returns filed before January 1, 1970, shall be available for public inspection only pursuant to the provisions of section 6104 in effect for such years. The information furnished on all returns filed after December 31, 1969, purusant to the requirements of section 6033, 6034, or 6058, shall be available for public inspection in accordance with the provisions of section 6104.


(4) *Copies.* Notes may be taken of the material opened for inspection under this section. Copies may be made manually or, if a person provides the equipment, photographically at the place of inspection, subject to reasonable supervision with regard to the facilities and equipment to be employed. Copies of the material opened for inspection will be furnished by the Internal Revenue Service to any person making request therefor. Requests for such copies shall be made in the same manner as requests for inspection (see subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) to the office of the Internal Revenue Service in which such material is available for inspection as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. Copies may also be obtained by written request to the director of any service center. If made at the time of inspection, the request for copies need not be in writing. Any copies furnished will be certified upon request. Any fees the Internal Revenue Service may charge for furnishing copies under this section shall be no more than under the fee schedule promulgated pursuant to section (a)(4)(A)(i) of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, by the Commissioner from time to time. 



---

[N] [T.D. 8026, 50 FR 20757, May 20, 1985, as amended by T.D. 9070, 68 FR 40769, July 9, 2003]










