# § 751.515   Recordkeeping.

(a) *General records.* After November 25, 2024, all persons who manufacture (including import), process, or distribute in commerce or engage in commercial use of chrysotile asbestos must maintain ordinary business records, such as invoices and bills-of-lading related to compliance with the prohibitions, restrictions, and other provisions of this subpart.


(b) *Certification of compliance for chlor-alkali industry records.* Persons required pursuant to § 751.507 to certify compliance with § 751.505 must:


(1) Retain records of certifications prepared to comply with § 751.507 and records to substantiate such certifications; and


(2) Make the records retained pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section available to EPA for inspection.


(c) *Interim workplace controls of chrysotile asbestos exposures records*—(1) *Exposure monitoring.* For each monitoring event, owners or operators subject to the exposure monitoring required by § 751.511(c) must document, retain records of the following and make them available to EPA for inspection:


(i) Dates, duration, and results of each sample taken;


(ii) The quantity, location(s) and manner of chrysotile asbestos use at the time of each monitoring event;


(iii) All measurements that may be necessary to determine sampling conditions that may have affected the monitoring results;


(iv) Name, address, work shift, job classification, work area, and type of respiratory protection (if any) of each monitored person;


(v) Sampling and analytical methods used and documentation of compliance with the quality control procedures described in § 751.511(c)(5)(i) and (ii); and


(vi) Notification of exposure monitoring results in accordance with § 751.511(c)(6).


(2) *Other requirements.* Owners or operators subject to the interim workplace controls described in § 751.511 must retain records and make them available to EPA for inspection of:


(i) The exposure control plan and its implementation as required by § 751.511(e).


(ii) Respiratory protection used and program implementation as described in § 751.511(f); and


(iii) Information and training provided by the owner or operator as required by § 751.511(g).


(d) *Disposal records.* Each person, except a consumer, who disposes of any chrysotile asbestos and any chrysotile asbestos-containing products or articles subject to § 751.513, after November 25, 2024 must retain in one location at the headquarters of the company, or at the facility for which the records were generated, documentation showing any records related to any disposal of chrysotile asbestos and any chrysotile asbestos-containing products or articles generated pursuant to, or otherwise documenting compliance with, regulations specified in § 751.513.


(e) *Retention.* The documentation in this section must be retained for 5 years from the date of generation.



---

[N] [89 FR 22005, Mar. 28, 2024; 89 FR 31655, Apr. 25, 2024]






