# § 1.1297-6   Exception from the definition of passive income for active insurance income.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules pertaining to the exception from passive income under section 1297(b)(2)(B) for income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business and rules related to certain income of a qualifying domestic insurance corporation. Paragraph (b) of this section provides a general rule that excludes from passive income certain income of a qualifying insurance corporation (QIC), as defined in § 1.1297-4(b), and certain income of a qualifying domestic insurance corporation. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules excluding certain assets for purposes of the passive asset test under section 1297(a)(2). Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules concerning the treatment of income and assets of certain look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships of a QIC. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules relating to qualifying domestic insurance corporations. Paragraph (f) of this section provides the applicability date of this section.


(b) *Exclusion from passive income of active insurance income.* For purposes of section 1297 and § 1.1297-1, passive income does not include—


(1) Income that a QIC derives in the active conduct of an insurance business (within the meaning of section 1297(b)(2)(B)); and


(2) Income of a qualifying domestic insurance corporation.


(c) *Exclusion of assets for purposes of the passive asset test under section 1297(a)(2).* For purposes of section 1297 and § 1.1297-1, passive assets (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(5)), do not include—


(1) Assets of a QIC available to satisfy liabilities of the QIC related to its insurance business (as defined in § 1.1297-4(f)(8)), if the QIC is engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business (within the meaning of section 1297(b)(2)(B)); and


(2) Assets of a qualifying domestic insurance corporation.


(d) *Treatment of income and assets of certain look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships for purposes of the section 1297(b)(2)(B) exception*—(1) *General rule.* For purposes of applying paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, a QIC is treated as receiving the income or holding the assets of a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership to the extent provided in section 1297(c) and § 1.1297-2(b)(2) or § 1.1297-2(b)(3). Subject to the limitation of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a QIC's proportionate share of the income or assets of a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership may be treated as earned or held directly by the QIC, and thus as non-passive under paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, if the requirements of those paragraphs are satisfied.


(2) *Limitation.* A QIC that is engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business (within the meaning of section 1297(b)(2)(B)) may not treat its proportionate share of the income or assets of a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership as non-passive to the extent that it exceeds the greater of—


(i) The QIC's proportionate share of the income or assets, respectively, of the look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the net equity value of the interests held by the QIC in the look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership, and the denominator of which is the value of the QIC's proportionate share of the assets of the look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership; and


(ii) The QIC's proportionate share of the income or assets, respectively, of the look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership that are treated as non-passive in the hands of the look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership.


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section.


(i) *Example 1: QIC holds all the stock of an investment subsidiary*—(A) *Facts.*

(*1*) F1 is a foreign corporation. In Year 1, F1 meets the definition of a QIC under section 1297(f) and § 1.1297-4 and is engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business within the meaning of section 1297(b)(2)(B). Throughout Year 1, F1 owns all the stock of F2, a foreign corporation that is not a QIC and is engaged solely in the investment of passive assets. The stock of F2 is an asset that is available to satisfy liabilities of F1 related to its insurance business within the meaning of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The assets of F1 are measured on the basis of value under § 1.1297-1(d)(1)(v)(C).


(*2*) Throughout Year 1, F2 owns assets with a value of $1,000x and adjusted bases of $500x, all of which are treated as passive in the hands of F2. F2 has outstanding debt with a principal amount of $250x. On the financial statement end date of F1's applicable financial statement, the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1 is $750x. In Year 1, F2 earned $100x of income that is treated as passive in the hands of F2.


(B) *Result*—(*1*) Because F1 owns all of the stock of F2, F2 is a look-through subsidiary of F1 within the meaning of § 1.1297-2(g)(3). Under section 1297(c) and § 1.1297-2(b)(2), F1 is treated as if it held 100% of the assets of F2 and received directly 100% of the income of F2. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, because F1 is engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business and the stock of F2 is an asset that is available to satisfy the insurance liabilities of F1, F1 treats its proportionate share of the income and assets of F2 as non-passive. The amount of income and assets that is treated as non-passive is subject to the limitation of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(*2*) Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the amount of F1's proportionate share of F2's income that is treated as non-passive cannot exceed the greater of two amounts: $75x, which is F1's proportionate share of F2's income ($100x) multiplied by 75% (the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1, which is $750x, divided by the value of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets, which is $1,000x); and zero, which is F1's proportionate share of the income of F2 that is treated as non-passive in the hands of F2. Therefore, for the purpose of characterizing F1's proportionate share of F2's income, $75x is treated as non-passive, and $25x is treated as passive.


(*3*) Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the amount of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets that is treated as non-passive cannot exceed the greater of two amounts: $750x, which is F1's proportionate share of F2's assets ($1,000x) multiplied by 75% (the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1, which is $750x, divided by the value of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets, which is $1,000x); and zero, which is F1's proportionate share of the assets of F2 that are treated as non-passive in the hands of F2. Therefore, for the purpose of characterizing F1's proportionate share of the assets of F2, $750x is treated as non-passive, and $250x is treated as passive.


(C) *Alternative facts*—(*1*) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section (paragraph (A) of this Example 1), except that the assets of F1 are measured on the basis of adjusted basis under § 1.1297-1(d)(1)(v)(C) pursuant to a valid election under § 1.1297-1(d)(1)(iii).


(*2*) *Result.* The result with respect to F1's proportionate share of the income of F2 is the same as in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section (paragraph (B)(*2*) of this Example 1). Because the assets of F1 are measured on the basis of adjusted basis under § 1.1297-1(d)(1)(v)(C), F1's proportionate share of the passive assets of F2 is equal to $500x (100% of $500x adjusted bases). Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the amount of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets that may be treated as non-passive cannot exceed the greater of two amounts: $375x, which is F1's proportionate share of F2's passive assets ($500x) multiplied by 75% (the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1, which is $750x, divided by the value of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets, which is $1,000x); and zero, which is F1's proportionate share of the assets of F2 that are treated as non-passive in the hands of F2. Therefore, for the purpose of characterizing F1's proportionate share of the assets of F2, $375x is treated as non-passive, and $125x is treated as passive.


(ii) *Example 2: QIC holds all the stock of an operating subsidiary*—(A) *Facts.*

(*1*) F1 is a foreign corporation. In Year 1, F1 meets the definition of a QIC under section 1297(f) and § 1.1297-4 and is engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business within the meaning of section 1297(b)(2)(B). Throughout Year 1, F1 owns all the stock of F2, a foreign corporation engaged in a manufacturing business that is not a QIC. The stock of F2 is an asset that is available to satisfy liabilities of F1 related to its insurance business within the meaning of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The assets of F1 are measured on the basis of value under § 1.1297-1(d)(1)(v)(C).


(*2*) Throughout Year 1, F2 owns assets with a value of $1,200x, of which $1,000x is treated as non-passive and $200x is treated as passive in the hands of F2. F2 has outstanding debt of $600x. On the financial statement end date of F1's applicable financial statement, the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1 is $600x. In Year 1, F2 earned $120x of income, of which, in the hands of F2, $100x is treated as non-passive and $20x is treated as passive.


(B) *Result*—(*1*) Because F1 owns all the stock of F2, F2 is a look-through subsidiary of F1 within the meaning of § 1.1297-2(g)(3). Under section 1297(c) and § 1.1297-2(b)(2), F1 is treated as if it held 100% of the assets of F2 and received directly 100% of the income of F2. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, because F1 is engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business and the stock of F2 is an asset that is available to satisfy the insurance liabilities of F1, F1 treats its proportionate share of the income and assets of F2 as non-passive. The amount of income and assets that is treated as non-passive is subject to the limitation of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(*2*) Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the amount of F1's proportionate share of F2's income that is treated as non-passive cannot exceed the greater of two amounts: $60x, which is F1's proportionate share of F2's income ($120x) multiplied by 50% (the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1, which is $600x, divided by the value of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets, which is $1,200x); and $100x, which is F1's proportionate share of the income of F2 that is treated as non-passive in the hands of F2. Therefore, for the purpose of characterizing F1's proportionate share of F2's income, $100x is treated as non-passive, and $20x is treated as passive.


(*3*) Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the amount of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets that is treated as non-passive cannot exceed the greater of two amounts: $600x, which is F1's proportionate share of F2's income ($1,200x) multiplied by 50% (the net equity value of the F2 stock held by F1, which is $600x, divided by the value of F1's proportionate share of F2's assets, which is $1,200x); and $1,000x, which is F1's proportionate share of the assets of F2 that are treated as non-passive in the hands of F2. Therefore, for the purpose of characterizing F1's proportionate share of the assets of F2, $1,000x is treated as non-passive, and $200x is treated as passive.


(e) *Qualifying domestic insurance corporation*—(1) *General rule.* A domestic corporation (or a foreign corporation that is treated as a domestic corporation pursuant to a valid section 953(d) election and that computes its reserves as a domestic insurance company would under subchapter L) is a qualifying domestic insurance corporation if it is—


(i) Subject to tax as an insurance company under subchapter L of the Internal Revenue Code;


(ii) Subject to federal income tax on its net income; and


(iii) A look-through subsidiary of a tested foreign corporation.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(f) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to taxable years of shareholders beginning on or after January 14, 2021. A shareholder may choose to apply such rules for any open taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 14, 2021, provided that, with respect to a tested foreign corporation, it consistently applies the provisions of this section and § 1.1297-4, for such year and all subsequent years.



---

[N] [T.D. 9936, 86 FR 4571, Jan. 15, 2021]




