# § 778.224   “Other similar payments”.

(a) *General.* Sections 778.216 through 778.223 have enumerated and discussed the basic types of payments for which exclusion from the regular rate is specifically provided under section 7(e)(2) because they are not made as compensation for hours of work. Section 7(e)(2) also authorizes exclusion from the regular rate of other similar payments to an employee which are not made as compensation for his hours of employment. Such payments do not depend on hours worked, services rendered, job performance, or other criteria that depend on the quality or quantity of the employee's work. Conditions not dependent on the quality or quality of work include a reasonable waiting period for eligibility, the requirement to repay benefits as a remedy for employee misconduct, and limiting eligibility on the basis of geographic location or job position. Since a variety of miscellaneous payments are paid by an employer to an employee under peculiar circumstances, it was not considered feasible to attempt to list them. They must, however, be “similar” in character to the payments specifically described in section 7(e)(2). It is clear that the clause was not intended to permit the exclusion from the regular rate of payments such as most bonuses or the furnishing of facilities like board and lodging which, though not directly attributable to any particular hours of work are, nevertheless, clearly understood to be compensation for services.


(b) *Examples of other excludable payments.* A few examples may serve to illustrate some of the types of payments intended to be excluded as “other similar payments”.


(1) Sums paid to an employee for the rental of his truck or car.


(2) Loans or advances made by the employer to the employee.


(3) The cost to the employer of conveniences furnished to the employee such as:


(i) Parking spaces and parking benefits;


(ii) Restrooms and lockers;


(iii) On-the-job medical care;


(iv) Treatment provided on-site from specialists such as chiropractors, massage therapists, physical therapists, personal trainers, counselors, or Employee Assistance Programs; or


(v) Gym access, gym memberships, fitness classes, and recreational facilities.


(4) The cost to the employer of providing wellness programs, such as health risk assessments, biometric screenings, vaccination clinics (including annual flu vaccinations), nutrition classes, weight loss programs, smoking cessation programs, stress reduction programs, exercise programs, coaching to help employees meet health goals, financial wellness programs or financial counseling, and mental health wellness programs.


(5) Discounts on employer-provided retail goods and services, and tuition benefits (whether paid to an employee, an education provider, or a student loan program).


(6) Adoption assistance (including financial assistance, legal services, or information and referral services).



---

[N] [84 FR 68775, Dec. 16, 2019]




