# § 22.531   Channels for paging operation.

The following channels are allocated for assignment to base transmitters that provide paging service, either individually or collectively under a paging geographic area authorization. Unless otherwise indicated, all channels have a bandwidth of 20 kHz and are designated by their center frequencies in MegaHertz. 


(a)-(b) [Reserved] 


(c) Upon application using FCC Form 601, common carriers may be authorized to provide one-way paging service using the leased subcarrier facilities of broadcast stations licensed under part 73 of this chapter.


(d) Occasionally in case law and other formal and informal documents, the low VHF channels have been referred to as “lowband” channels, and the high VHF channels have been referred to as “guardband” channels.


(e) Pursuant to the U.S.-Canada Interim Coordination Considerations for 929-932 MHz, as amended, only the following UHF channels may be assigned in the continental United States North of Line A or in the State of Alaska East of Line C, within the indicated longitudes:


(1) From longitude W.73° to longitude W.75° and from longitude W.78° to longitude W.81°:


(2) From longitude W.81° to longitude W.85°:


(3) Longitudes other than specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section:


(4) At any longitude, with authorization condition requiring coordinated, shared use and equal access by licensees in both countries:


(f) For the purpose of issuing paging geographic authorizations, the paging geographic areas used for UHF channels are the MEAs, and the paging geographic areas used for the low and high VHF channels are the EAs (see § 22.503(b)).



---

[N] [59 FR 59507, Nov. 17, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 59954, Nov. 21, 1994; 62 FR 11635, Mar. 12, 1997; 63 FR 68945, Dec. 14, 1998; 64 FR 33784, June 24, 1999; 70 FR 19309, Apr. 13, 2005]




