# § 743.2   High performance computers: Post shipment verification reporting.

(a) *Scope.* This section outlines special post-shipment reporting requirements for exports of certain computers to destinations in Computer Tier 3, see § 740.7(d) for a list of these destinations. Post-shipment reports must be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this section, and all relevant records of such exports must be kept in accordance with part 762 of the EAR.


(b) *Requirement.* Exporters must file post-shipment reports and keep records in accordance with recordkeeping requirements in part 762 of the EAR for high performance computer exports to destinations in Computer Tier 3, as well as, exports of commodities used to enhance computers previously exported or reexported to Computer Tier 3 destinations, where the “Adjusted Peak Performance” (“APP”) is greater than that listed in ECCN 4A003.b in the Commerce Control List, supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR.


(c) *Information that must be included in each post-shipment report.* No later than the last day of the month following the month in which the export takes place, the exporter must submit the following information to BIS at the address listed in paragraph (d) of this section:


(1) Exporter name, address, and telephone number;


(2) License number;


(3) Date of export;


(4) End-user name, point of contact, address, telephone number;


(5) Carrier;


(6) Air waybill or bill of lading number;


(7) Commodity description, quantities—listed by model numbers, serial numbers, and APP level in WT; and


(8) Certification line for exporters to sign and date. The exporter must certify that the information contained in the report is accurate to the best of his or her knowledge.


(d) *Address.* A copy of the post-shipment report(s) required under paragraph (b) of this section shall be delivered, via courier, to: U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Enforcement Analysis, HPC Team, 14th Street and Constitution Ave., NW., Room 4065, Washington, DC 20230. Note that BIS will not accept reports sent C.O.D.



---

[N] [71 FR 20886, Apr. 24, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 35, Jan. 2, 2008; 76 FR 36988, June 24, 2011; 77 FR 39369, July 2, 2012; 79 FR 45296, Aug. 4, 2014; 81 FR 64675, Sept. 20, 2016]




