# ยง 110.20   Definitions.

Unless defined in this part, all terms defined in 49 U.S.C. 5102 are used in their statutory meaning and all terms defined in 2 CFR part 200 with respect to administrative requirements for grants are used as defined therein. Other terms used in this part are defined as follows:


*Allowable costs* means those costs that are: Eligible, reasonable, necessary, and allocable to the activities permitted by the appropriate Federal cost principles, and approved in the grant.


*Associate Administrator* means the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration or a person designated by the Associate Administrator.


*National curriculum* means the curriculum required to be developed under 49 U.S.C. 5115 and necessary to train public sector emergency response and preparedness teams, enabling them to comply with performance standards as stated in 49 U.S.C. 5115(c).


*Political subdivision* means a county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority (including any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937), school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (whether or not incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State law), any other regional or interstate government entity, or any agency or instrumentality of a local government.


*Public sector employee* means an individual employed by a State, political subdivision of a State, Territory, or Indian tribe and who during the course of employment has responsibilities related to responding to an accident or incident involving the transportation of hazardous material, including an individual employed by a State, political subdivision of a State, Territory, or Indian tribe as a firefighter or law enforcement officer and an individual who volunteers to serve as a firefighter for a State, political subdivision of a State, Territory, or Indian tribe.



---

[N] [84 FR 3999, Feb. 14, 2019]




