# § 346.52   Labeling of permitted combinations of anorectal active ingredients.

Indications, warnings, and directions for use, respectively, applicable to each ingredient in the product may be combined to eliminate duplicative words or phrases so that the resulting information is clear and understandable. 


(a) *Statement of identity.* For a combination drug product that has an established name, the labeling of the product states the established name of the combination drug product, followed by the statement of identity established in § 346.50(a). For a combination drug product that does not have an established name, the labeling of the product states the statement of identity established in § 346.50(a). 


(b) *Indications.* The labeling of the product states, under the heading “Indications,” the indication(s) for each ingredient in the combination, as established in the indications sections of this subpart. 


(c) *Warnings.* The labeling of the product states, under the heading “Warnings,” the warning(s) for each ingredient in the combination, as established in the warnings sections of this subpart. 


(d) *Directions.* The labeling of the product states, under the heading “Directions,” directions that conform to the directions established for each ingredient in the directions sections of this subpart. When the time intervals or age limitations for administration of the individual ingredients differ, the directions for the combination product may not exceed any maximum dosage limits established for the individual ingredients in the applicable OTC drug monograph. 




