# ยง 16.10   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section.


*Act.* The Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988.


*Alcoholic beverage.* Includes any beverage in liquid form which contains not less than one-half of one percent (.5%) of alcohol by volume and is intended for human consumption.


*Bottle.* To fill a container with an alcoholic beverage and to seal such container.


*Bottler.* A person who bottles an alcoholic beverage.


*Brand label.* The label carrying, in the usual distinctive design, the brand name of the alcoholic beverage.


*Container.* The innermost sealed container, irrespective of the material from which made, in which an alcoholic beverage is placed by the bottler and in which such beverage is offered for sale to members of the general public.


*Health.* Includes, but is not limited to, the prevention of accidents.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, joint-stock company, business trust, association, corporation, or any other business or legal entity, including a receiver, trustee, or liquidating agent, and also includes any State, any State agency, or any officer or employee thereof.


*Sale and distribution.* Includes sampling or any other distribution not for sale.


*State.* Includes any political subdivision of any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Wake Island, the Midway Islands, Kingman Reef, or Johnston Island.


*State law.* Includes State statutes, regulations and principles and rules having the force of law. 


*TTB.* The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*United States.* The several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Wake Island, the Midway Islands, Kingman Reef, and Johnston Island.


*Use of other terms.* Any other term defined in the Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act and used in this part shall have the same meaning as assigned to it by the Act.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-294, 55 FR 5421, Feb. 14, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-425, 65 FR 11892, Mar. 7, 2000; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16925, Apr. 4, 2006]




