# § 1.246-3   Exclusion of certain dividends.

(a) *In general.* Corporate taxpayers are denied, in certain cases, the dividends-received deduction provided by section 243 (dividends received by corporations), section 244 (dividends received on certain preferred stock), and section 245 (dividends received from certain foreign corporations). The above-mentioned dividends-received deductions are denied, under section 246(c)(1), to corporate shareholders: 


(1) If the dividend is in respect of any share of stock which is sold or otherwise disposed of in any case where the taxpayer has held such share for 15 days or less; or 


(2) If and to the extent that the taxpayer is under an obligation to make corresponding payments with respect to substantially identical stock or securities. It is immaterial whether the obligation has arisen pursuant to a short sale or otherwise. 


(b) *Ninety-day rule for certain preference dividends.* In the case of any stock having a preference in dividends, a special rule is provided by section 246(c)(2) in lieu of the 15-day rule described in section 246(c)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the taxpayer receives dividends on such stock which are attributable to a period or periods aggregating in excess of 366 days, the holding period specified in section 246(c)(1)(A) shall be 90 days (in lieu of 15 days). 


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *“Otherwise disposed of”.* As used in this section the term *otherwise disposed of* includes disposal by gift. 


(2) *“Substantially identical stock or securities”.* The term *substantially identical stock or securities* is to be applied according to the facts and circumstances in each case. In general, the term has the same meaning as the corresponding terms in sections 1091 and 1233 and the regulations thereunder. See paragraph (d)(1) of § 1.1233-1. 


(3) *Obligation to make corresponding payments.* (i) Section 246(c)(1)(B) of the Code denies the dividends-received deduction to a corporate taxpayer to the extent that such taxpayer is under an obligation, with respect to substantially identical stock or securities, to make payments corresponding to the dividend received. Thus, for example, where a corporate taxpayer is in both a “long” and “short” position with respect to the same stock on the date that such stock goes ex-dividend, the dividend received on the stock owned by the taxpayer will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction to the extent that the taxpayer is obligated to make payments to cover the dividends with respect to its offsetting short position in the same stock. The dividends-received deduction is denied in such a case without regard to the length of time the taxpayer has held the stock on which such dividends are received. 


(ii) The provisions of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example: 


(d) *Determination of holding period*—(1) *In general.* Special rules are provided by paragraph (3) of section 246(c) for determining the period for which the taxpayer has held any share of stock for purposes of the restriction provided by such section. In computing the holding period the day of disposition but not the day of acquisition shall be taken into account. Also, there shall not be taken into account any day which is more than 15 days after the date on which the share of stock becomes ex-dividend. Thus, the holding period is automatically terminated at the end of such 15-day period without regard to how long the stock may be held after that date. In the case of stock qualifying under paragraph (2) of section 246(c) (as having preference in dividends) a 90-day period is substituted for the 15-day period prescribed in this subparagraph. Finally, section 1223(4), relating to holding periods in the case of wash sales, shall not apply. Therefore, tacking of the holding period of the stock disposed of to the holding period of the stock acquired where a wash sale occurs is not permitted for purposes of determining the holding period described in section 246(c). 


(2) *Special rules.* Section 246(c) requires that the holding periods determined thereunder shall be appropriately reduced for any period that the taxpayer's stock holding is offset by a corresponding short position resulting from an option to sell, a contractual obligation to sell, or a short sale of, substantially identical stock or securities. The holding periods of stock held for a period of 15 days or less on the date such short position is created shall accordingly be reduced to the extent of such short position. Where the amount of stock acquired within such period exceeds the amount as to which the taxpayer establishes a short position, the stock the holding period of which must be reduced because of such short position shall be that most recently acquired within such period. If, on the date the short position is created, the amount of stock subject to the short position exceeds the amount, if any, of stock held by the taxpayer for 15 days or less, the excess shares of stock sold short shall, to the extent thereof, postpone until the termination of the short position the commencement of the holding periods of subsequently acquired stock. Stock having a preference in dividends is also subject to the rules prescribed in this subparagraph, except that the 90-day period provided by paragraph (b) of this section shall apply in lieu of the 15-day period otherwise applicable. The rules prescribed in this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(e) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section shall apply to stock acquired after December 31, 1957, or with respect to stock acquired before that date where the taxpayer has made a short sale of substantially identical stock or securities after that date. 




