# ยง 905.17   What are the requirements for the energy efficiency and/or renewable energy report (EE/RE report) alternative?

(a) *Requests to submit an EE/RE report.* End-use customers may submit a request to prepare an EE/RE report instead of an IRP. Requests to submit EE/RE reports must include data on: 


(1) The source of the EE/RE reporting requirement (number, title, date, and jurisdiction of law or regulation); 


(2) The initial, annual, and other reporting requirement(s) of the report; and 


(3) A summary outline of the EE/RE report's required data or components, including any requirements for documenting customer energy efficiency and renewable energy activities. 


(b) *EE/RE report requirement.* The EE/RE report is based on a mandate by a State, Tribal, or Federal Government to implement energy efficiency and/or renewable energy activities within a specified timeframe, for which there is also an associated reporting requirement. The EE/RE report may include only electrical resource use and energy efficiency and/or renewable energy activities, or may additionally include other resource information, such as water and natural gas data. At a minimum, the EE/RE report must annually document energy efficiency and/or renewable energy activities undertaken by the end-use customer. 


(c) *Western's response to EE/RE report requests.* Western will respond to requests to accept EE/RE reports within 30 days of receiving the request. If Western disapproves a request to allow use of the EE/RE report, the customer must maintain its currently applicable IRP or small customer plan, or submit its initial IRP no later than 1 year after the date of the disapproval letter. Alternatively, the customer may submit a request for small customer plan or minimum investment report, as appropriate, within 30 days after the date of the disapproval letter. 


(d) *EE/RE report contents.* EE/RE reports must include: 


(1) Customer name, address, phone number, email and Website if applicable, and contact person; 


(2) Authority or requirement to complete the EE/RE report, including the source of the requirement (number, title, date, and jurisdiction of law); and


(3) A description of the customer's required energy efficiency and/or renewable energy activities, including: 


(i) Level of investment or expenditure in energy efficiency and/or renewable energy, and quantifiable energy savings or use goals, if defined by the EE/RE reporting requirement; 


(ii) Annual actual or estimated energy and/or capacity savings, if any, associated with energy efficiency and resulting from the EE/RE reporting requirement; 


(iii) Actual or estimated energy and/or capacity, if any, associated with renewable energy and resulting from the EE/RE reporting requirement; 


(iv) A description of the energy efficiency and/or renewable energy activities to be undertaken over the next 2 years as a result of the EE/RE reporting requirement. 


(e) *EE/RE report approval.* Western will approve the EE/RE report when the report meets the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(f) *When to submit the EE/RE report.* The customer must submit the first EE/RE report to the appropriate Western Regional Manager within 1 year after Western approves the request to accept the EE/RE report. Customers choosing this option must maintain IRP or small customer plan compliance with Western's IRP regulations in effect before May 1, 2000, including submitting annual progress reports or update letters, until submitting the first EE/RE report to ensure there is no gap in complying with section 114 of EPAct. Customers must submit, in writing, an EE/RE report every 5 years. 


(g) *Maintaining EE/RE reports.* (1) Every year on the anniversary of Western's approval of the first EE/RE report, customers choosing this option must submit an annual EE/RE letter to Western. The letter must contain summary information identifying customer annual energy and capacity savings associated with energy efficiency, if any, and annual customer energy and capacity associated with renewable energy, if any. The letter must also verify that the customer remains in compliance with the EE/RE reporting requirement. Additionally, the letter must include a revised description of customer DSM and/or renewable energy activities if the description from the EE/RE report has changed or expired. If this information is contained in an EE/RE report sent to another authority, the customer may submit that report instead of a separate letter. 


(2) Customers may submit annual EE/RE letters outside of the anniversary date if previously agreed to by Western if the letter contains all required data for the previous full year. 


(h) *Loss of eligibility to submit the EE/RE report.* (1) A customer ceases to be eligible to submit a EE/RE report if: 


(i) The EE/RE reporting requirement no longer applies to the customer, or


(ii) The customer does not comply with the EE/RE reporting requirements in applicable State, Tribal, or Federal law. 


(2) Western will work with a customer no longer eligible to submit an EE/RE report to develop an appropriate schedule to submit a small customer plan or other plan or report required under this subpart.




