# § 63.17   Special provisions for U.S. international common carriers.

(a) Unless otherwise prohibited by the terms of its Section 214 certificate, a U.S. common carrier authorized under this part to provide international private line service, whether as a reseller or facilities-based carrier, may interconnect its authorized private lines to the public switched network on behalf of an end user customer for the end user customer's own use.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a U.S. common carrier, whether a reseller or facilities-based carrier, may engage in “switched hubbing” to countries provided the carrier complies with the following conditions:


(1) U.S.-outbound switched traffic shall be routed over the carrier's authorized U.S. international circuits extending between the United States and a country that is exempt from the international settlements policy (*i.e.*, the “hub” country), and then forwarded to the third country only by taking at published rates and reselling the international message telephone service (IMTS) of a carrier in the hub country; 


(2) U.S.-inbound switched traffic shall be carried to a country that is exempt from the international settlements policy (*i.e.*, the “hub” country) as part of the IMTS traffic flow from a third country and then terminated in the United States over the carrier's authorized U.S. international circuits extending between the United States and the hub country.


(3) Authorized carriers filing tariffs pursuant to §§ 61.19 or 61.28 of this chapter that route U.S.-billed traffic via switched hubbing shall tariff their service on a “through” basis between the United States and the ultimate point of origination or termination; 


(4) No U.S. common carrier may engage in switched hubbing to or from a third country where it has an affiliation with a foreign carrier unless and until it has received authority to serve that country under § 63.18(e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3).



---

[N] [60 FR 67339, Dec. 29, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 15728, Apr. 9, 1996; 63 FR 64754, Dec. 9, 1997; 64 FR 19064, Apr. 19, 1999; 66 FR 16881, Mar. 28, 2001; 67 FR 45390, July 9, 2002; 69 FR 23154, Apr. 28, 2004; 78 FR 11112, Feb. 15, 2013; 88 FR 21443, Apr. 10, 2023]




