# ยง 3555.108   Full faith and credit.

(a) *General.* The Loan Note Guarantee constitutes an obligation supported by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the lender has actual knowledge at the time it becomes such lender or which the lender participates in or condones. Misrepresentation includes negligent misrepresentation.


(b) *Interest.* A note that provides for the payment of interest on interest, however, shall not be guaranteed. If the note to which the Loan Note Guarantee is attached or relates provides for the payment of interest on interest, then the Loan Note Guarantee is void. Notwithstanding the prohibition of interest on interest, interest may be capitalized in connection with re-amortization under subpart G of this part.


(c) *Violations.* The Loan Note Guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent any loss is occasioned by violation of usury laws, civil rights laws, negligent servicing, failure to obtain the required security or use of loan funds for unauthorized purposes, regardless of the time at which Rural Development acquires knowledge of the foregoing. Negligent servicing is defined as servicing that is inconsistent with this subpart and includes the failure to perform those services which a reasonably prudent Lender would perform in servicing its own loan portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes not only the concept of a failure to act, but also not acting in a timely manner or acting contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent Lender would act up to the time of loan maturity or until a final loss is paid.


(d) *Indemnification.* The loan note guarantee will remain in effect for any holder of the loan who acquired it from an originating lender. If the Agency determines that a lender did not originate a loan in accordance with the requirements in this part, and the Agency pays a claim under the loan guarantee, the Agency may revoke the originating lender's eligibility status in accordance with subpart B of this part and may also require the originating lender:


(1) To indemnify the Agency for the loss, if the default leading to the payment of loss claim occurred within five (5) years of loan closing, when one or more of the following conditions is satisfied:


(i) The originating lender utilized unsupported data or omitted material information when submitting the request for a conditional commitment to the Agency;


(ii) The originating lender failed to properly verify and analyze the applicant's income and employment history in accordance with Agency guidelines;


(iii) The originating lender failed to address property deficiencies identified in the appraisal or inspection report that affect the health and safety of the occupants or the structural integrity of the property;


(iv) The originating lender used an appraiser that was not properly licensed or certified, as appropriate, to make residential real estate appraisal in accordance with ยง 3555.103(a); or,


(2) To indemnify the Agency for the loss regardless of how long ago the loan closed or the default occurred, if the Agency determines that fraud or misrepresentation was involved with the origination of the loan.


(3) In addition, the Agency may use any other legal remedies it has against the originating lender.



---

[N] [78 FR 73941, Dec. 9, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 6429, Feb. 8, 2016; 81 FR 26464, May 3, 2016]




