# ยง 195.10   Hearings.

(a) *Opportunity for hearing.* Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 195.9, reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either (1) fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the responsible Department official that the matter be scheduled for hearing or (2) advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under section 602 of the Act and ยง 195.11(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is available. 


(b) *Time and place of hearing.* Hearings shall be held at the offices of the responsible component of the Department of Defense in Washington, D.C., at a time fixed by the responsible Department official unless he determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the component requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before the responsible Department official or, at his discretion, before a hearing examiner designated by him. 


(c) *Hearing examiner.* The examiner shall be a field grade officer or civilian employee above the grade of GS-12 (or the equivalent) who shall be a person admitted to practice law before a Federal court or the highest court of a State. 


(d) *Right to counsel.* In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the responsible component of the Department shall have the right to be represented by counsel. 


(e) *Procedures.* (1) The recipient shall receive an open hearing at which he or his counsel may examine any witnesses present. Both the responsible Department official and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the officer conducting the hearing at the outset of or during the hearing. 


(2) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this part, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary by the officer conducting the hearing. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made. 


(f) *Consolidated or joint hearings.* In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with this part with respect to two or more programs to which this part applies, or noncompliance with this part and the regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under Title VI of the Act, the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower), the Secretary of a Military Department, or other responsible Department official designated by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower) after consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower) may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of appropriate procedures not inconsistent with this part. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as this part is concerned, shall be made in accordance with ยง 195.11. 



---

[N] [29 FR 19291, Dec. 31, 1964, as amended at 30 FR 133, Jan. 7, 1965. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 32965, July 18, 1991] 




