# § 550.185   Payment of availability pay.

(a) Availability pay is paid only for periods of time during which a criminal investigator receives basic pay. Availability pay is an amount equal to the lesser of—(1) 25 percent of a criminal investigator's rate of basic pay, as defined in § 550.103, including amounts designated as “salary” for special agents in the Diplomatic Security Service; or


(2) The maximum amount that may be paid to avoid exceeding the maximum earnings limitation on premium pay for law enforcement officers in 5 U.S.C. 5547(c).


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a criminal investigator who is eligible for availability pay shall continue to receive such pay during any period such investigator is attending agency-sanctioned training, on agency-ordered travel status, on agency-approved leave with pay, or on excused absence with pay for relocation purposes.


(c) Agencies may, at their discretion, provide availability pay to criminal investigators during training that is considered initial, basic training usually provided in the first year of service.


(d) Agencies may, at their discretion, provide for the continuation of availability pay when a criminal investigator is on excused absence with pay, except where payment is mandatory under paragraph (b) of this section.


(e) The amount of availability pay payable to a criminal investigator for a pay period is not affected by the occurrence of a paid holiday during that period.



---

[N] [59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 64 FR 4521, Jan. 29, 1999] 




