# ยง 172.601   ASTP/ONC review.

(a) ASTP/ONC may, in its sole discretion, review all or any part of any RCE determination, policy, or action. If ASTP/ONC reviews an RCE determination that required ASTP/ONC's prior authorization under this part, no ASTP/ONC officer, employee, or agent who was engaged with helping to evaluate or decide the prior authorization, or a prior authorization involving the same party(s) or underlying facts, may participate in deciding or advising ASTP/ONC on its review of that determination.


(b) ASTP/ONC may, in its sole discretion and on notice to affected QHINs or Applicant QHINs, stay any RCE determination, policy, or other action pending ASTP/ONC review. If ASTP/ONC stays an RCE determination that required ASTP/ONC's prior authorization under this part, no ASTP/ONC officer, employee, or agent who was engaged with helping to evaluate or decide the prior authorization, or a prior authorization involving the same party(s) or underlying facts, may participate in deciding or advising ASTP/ONC on whether it should stay that determination.


(c) ASTP/ONC may, in its sole discretion and on written notice, request that a QHIN, Applicant QHIN, or the RCE provide ASTP/ONC additional information regarding any RCE determination, policy, or other action.


(d) On completion of its review, ASTP/ONC may affirm, modify, or reverse the determination, policy, or other action under review. ASTP/ONC will provide notice to affected QHINs or Applicant QHINs that includes the basis for ASTP/ONC's decision.


(e) ASTP/ONC will provide written notice under this section to affected QHINs or Applicant QHINs in the same manner as the original RCE determination, policy, or other action under review.


(f) ASTP/ONC will issue a decision under this section within a timeframe agreed to by the affected Applicant QHIN or QHIN, as applicable, the RCE, and ASTP/ONC. ASTP/ONC may, at its sole discretion, extend the timeframe for a decision as circumstances necessitate.






