# ยง 361.6   Advice of shipment.

(a) If the value of any one shipment to one consignee at one time by one consignor, except in the case of any intracity shipment or the shipment of registered securities by certified mail, or by another means providing the same protection as certified mail, equals or exceeds $10,000, immediate notice thereof shall be forwarded by the consignor to the consignee by separate mail. Such notice shall include:


(1) A complete record of the contents of the shipment;


(2) The method of transportation employed and the name of the carrier; and


(3) The date of delivery to such carrier.


(b) The consignee shall arrange that:


(1) Shipment when received, be opened and inspected by one or more responsible employees;


(2) Immediate advice of any difference between the amounts or quantity indicated in the notice by the consignor to the consignee and in the shipment when opened be forwarded to the consignor;


(3) The consignor and the post office, or office of other carrier through which delivery would be made, be notified immediately in the event of the failure of the shipment to arrive in due course;


(4) The consignor be advised immediately concerning any damage to the shipment; and


(5) All findings of the consignee in such cases be made a matter of record subject to the inspection of the Secretary or other Government officer, in connection with any necessary investigation.



---

[N] [41 FR 19302, May 12, 1976. Redesignated at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984. Further redesignated at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 19751, June 2, 1986]




