# ยง 180.362   Fenbutatin-oxide; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of the miticide/acaricide fenbutatin-oxide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the plant commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only fenbutatin-oxide, hexakis (2-methyl-2-phenylpropyl) distannoxane, in or on the commodity.


(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the miticide/acaricide fenbutatin-oxide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the animal commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of fenbutatin-oxide, hexakis (2-methyl-2-phenylpropyl) distannoxane, and its organotin metabolites, dihydroxybis(2-methyl-2-phenylpropyl) stannane and 2-methyl-2-phenylpropylstannoic acid, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of fenbutatin-oxide, in or on the commodity.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved] 


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* A tolerance with regional registration, as defined in ยง 180.1(l), is established for residues of the miticide/acaricide fenbutatin-oxide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the plant commodity in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance level specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only fenbutatin-oxide, hexakis (2-methyl-2-phenylpropyl) distannoxane, in or on the commodity.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved] 



---

[N] [65 FR 33713, May 24, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 41930, Aug. 1, 2007; 73 FR 5109, Jan. 29, 2008; 76 FR 23494, Apr. 27, 2011]




