# § 94.16   Milk and milk products.

(a) The following milk products are exempt from the provisions of this part:


(1) Cheese, but not including cheese with liquid and not including cheese containing any item that is regulated by other sections of this part, unless such item is independently eligible for importation into the United States under this part;


(2) Butter; and


(3) Butteroil.


(b) Milk and milk products originating in, or shipped from, any region where foot-and-mouth disease is considered to exist under § 94.1(a) may be imported into the United States if they meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section:


(1) They are in a concentrated liquid form and have been processed by heat by a commercial method in a container hermetically sealed promptly after filling but before such heating, so as to be shelf stable without refrigeration. 


(2) They are dry milk or dry milk products, including dry whole milk, nonfat dry milk, dried whey, dried buttermilk, and formulations which contain any such dry milk products, and are consigned directly to an approved establishment 
14 for further processing in a manner approved by the Administrator, as adequate to prevent the introduction or dissemination of livestock diseases into the United States. However, in specific cases, upon request by the importer to the Administrator, and approval by the Administrator, they may be stored for a temporary period in an approved warehouse 
14 under the supervision of an inspector of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service pending movement to an approved establishment. Such products shall be transported from the United States port of first arrival to an approved establishment 
14 or an approved warehouse, 
14 and from an approved warehouse 
14 to an approved establishment 
14 only under Department seals or seals of the U.S. Customs Service. Such seals shall be broken only by such an inspector or other person authorized to do so by the Administrator. Such products shall not be removed from the approved warehouse 
14 or approved establishment 
14 except upon special permission by the Administrator, and upon compliance with all the conditions and requirements specified by him for such movement in each specific case. 


(3) Milk and milk products not exempted under paragraph (a) and not of classes included within the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section may be imported if the importer first applies to and receives written permission from the Administrator, authorizing such importation. Permission will be granted only when the Administrator determines that such action will not endanger the health of the livestock of the United States. Products subject to this provision include but are not limited to condensed milk, long-life milks such as sterilized milk, casein and caseinates, lactose, and lactalbumin. 


(4) Small amounts of milk and milk products subject to the restrictions of this part may in specific cases be imported for purposes of examination, testing, or analysis, if the importer applies to and receives written approval for such importation from the Administrator. Approval will be granted only when the Administrator determines that such action will not endanger the health of the livestock of the United States. 


(c) Milk and milk products originating in and shipped from regions listed under § 94.1(a) as free of foot-and-mouth disease but which have entered a port or otherwise transited a region where APHIS considers the disease to exist may not be imported into the United States unless:


(1) The product was transported under serially numbered official seals applied at the point of origin of the shipment by an authorized representative of the region of such origin; except that, if any seal applied at the point of origin was broken by any foreign official to inspect the shipment, an authorized representative of that region applied a new serially numbered official seal to the hold, compartment, or container in which the milk or milk products were transported; and if any member of a ship's crew broke a seal, the serial number of the seal, the location of the seal, and the reason for breaking the seal were recorded in the ship's log.


(2) The numbers of such seals are listed on, or are on a list attached to, the bill of lading or similar document accompanying the shipment. 


(3) Upon arrival of the carrier at the United States port, an inspector of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service determines that the seals are intact and that their numbers are in agreement with the numbers appearing on the accompanying document; *Provided,* That, if the representative finds that any seal has been broken or has a different number than is recorded on the accompanying document, then the milk or milk products may remain eligible for entry into the United States only if APHIS personnel are available to inspect the hold, compartment, or container, the cartons or other containers of milk or milk products, and all accompanying documentation; and the importer furnishes additional documentation (either copies of pages from the ship's log signed by the officer-in-charge, or certification from a foreign government that the original seal was removed and the new seal applied by officials of the government) that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the milk or milk products were not contaminated or exposed to contamination during movement from the region of origin to the United States.


(d) Except for milk and milk products imported from Canada, and except as provided in this paragraph, milk or milk products imported from a region listed under § 94.1(a) as free of foot-and-mouth disease must be accompanied by a certificate endorsed by a full-time, salaried veterinarian employed by the region of export. The certificate must state that the milk was produced and processed in a region listed under § 94.1(a) as free of foot-and-mouth disease, or that the milk product was processed in one such region from milk produced in another such region. The certificate must name the region in which the milk was produced and the region in which the milk or milk product was processed. Further, the certificate must state that, except for movement under seal as described in § 94.16(c), the milk or milk product has never been in a region in which foot-and-mouth disease exists. Milk or milk products from a region listed under § 94.1(a) as free of foot-and-mouth disease and that were processed in whole or in part from milk or milk products from a region not listed under § 94.1(a) as free of foot-and-mouth disease may be imported into the United States only in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [40 FR 44123, Sept. 25, 1975]


