# § 1.904-6   Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.

(a) *In general.* The amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued with respect to a separate category (as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v)) of income (including U.S. source income assigned to the separate category) includes only those foreign income taxes that are allocated and apportioned to the separate category under the rules of § 1.861-20 (as modified by this section). In applying the foreign tax credit limitation under sections 904(a) and (d) to general category income described in section 904(d)(2)(A)(ii) and § 1.904-4(d), foreign source income in the general category is a statutory grouping. However, general category income is the residual grouping of income for purposes of assigning foreign income taxes to separate categories. In addition, in determining the numerator of the foreign tax credit limitation under sections 904(a) and (d), where U.S. source income is the residual grouping, the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued for which a deduction is allowed, for example, under section 901(k)(7), with respect to foreign source income in a separate category includes only those foreign income taxes that are allocated and apportioned to foreign source income in the separate category under the rules of § 1.861-20 (as modified by this section). For purposes of this section, unless otherwise stated, terms have the same meaning as provided in § 1.861-20(b). For examples illustrating the application of this section, see § 1.861-20(g).


(b) *Assigning an item of foreign gross income to a separate category.* For purposes of assigning an item of foreign gross income to a separate category or categories (or foreign source income in a separate category) under § 1.861-20, the rules of this paragraph (b) apply.


(1) *Base differences.* Any item of foreign gross income that is attributable to a base difference described in § 1.861-20(d)(2)(ii)(B) is assigned to the separate category described in section 904(d)(2)(H)(i), and to foreign source income in that category.


(2) *Disregarded payments*—(i) *In general*—(A) *Assignment of foreign gross income.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, if a taxpayer that is an individual or a domestic corporation includes an item of foreign gross income by reason of the receipt of a disregarded payment by a foreign branch or foreign branch owner (as those terms are defined in § 1.904-4(f)(3)), or a non-branch taxable unit, the foreign gross income item is assigned to a separate category under § 1.861-20(d)(3)(v).


(B) *Definition of non-branch taxable unit.* The term *non-branch taxable unit* means a person or interest that is described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section, respectively.


(*1*) *Persons.* A non-branch taxable unit described in this paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) means a person that is not otherwise a foreign branch owner and that is a U.S. individual, a domestic corporation, or a foreign or domestic partnership (or other pass-through entity, as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)) an interest in which is owned, directly or indirectly through one or more other partnerships (or other pass-through entities), by a U.S. individual or a domestic corporation.


(*2*) *Interests.* A non-branch taxable unit described in this paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*2*) means an interest of a foreign branch owner or an interest of a person described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) of this section that is not otherwise a foreign branch, and that is either a disregarded entity or a branch, as defined in § 1.267A-5(a)(2), including a branch described in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)(*3*) (modified by substituting the term “person” for “controlled foreign corporation”).


(ii) *Foreign branch group contributions*—(A) *In general.* If a taxpayer includes an item of foreign gross income by reason of a foreign branch group contribution, the foreign gross income is assigned to the foreign branch category, or, in the case of a foreign branch owner that is a partnership, to the partnership's general category income that is attributable to the foreign branch. See, however, §§ 1.861-20(d)(3)(v)(C)(*2*), 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii)(A), and 1.960-1(e) for rules providing that foreign income tax on a disregarded payment that is a contribution from a controlled foreign corporation to a taxable unit is assigned to the residual grouping and cannot be deemed paid under section 960.


(B) *Foreign branch group contribution.* A foreign branch group contribution is a contribution (as defined in § 1.861-20(d)(3)(v)(E)) made by a member of a foreign branch owner group to a member of a foreign branch group that the payor owns, made by a member of a foreign branch group to another member of that group that the payor owns, or made by a member of a foreign branch group to a member of a different foreign branch group that the payor owns. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B), the terms *foreign branch group* and *foreign branch owner group* have the meanings provided in § 1.904-4(f)(3).


(c) *Allocating and apportioning deductions.* For purposes of applying § 1.861-20(e) to allocate and apportion deductions allowed under foreign law to foreign gross income in the separate categories, before undertaking the steps outlined in § 1.861-20(e), foreign gross income in the passive category is first reduced by any related person interest expense that is allocated to the income under the principles of section 954(b)(5) and § 1.904-5(c)(2)(ii)(C). In allocating and apportioning expenses not specifically allocated under foreign law, the principles of foreign law are applied only after taking into account the reduction of passive income by the application of section 954(b)(5). In allocating and apportioning expenses when foreign law does not provide rules for the allocation or apportionment of expenses, losses or other deductions to particular items of foreign gross income, then the principles of section 954(b)(5), in addition to the principles of the section 861 regulations (as defined in § 1.861-8(a)(1)), apply to allocate and apportion expenses, losses or other foreign law deductions to foreign gross income after reduction of passive income by the amount of related person interest expense allocated to passive income under section 954(b)(5) and § 1.904-5(c)(2)(ii)(C).


(d) *Apportionment of taxes for purposes of applying the high-tax income tests.* If taxes have been allocated and apportioned to passive income under the rules of paragraph (a) this section, the taxes must further be apportioned to the groups of income described in § 1.904-4(c)(3) through (5) for purposes of determining if the group is high-taxed income that is recharacterized as income in another separate category under the rules of § 1.904-4(c). See also § 1.954-1(c)(1)(iii)(B) (defining a single item of passive category foreign personal holding company income by reference to the grouping rules under § 1.904-4(c)(3) through (5)). Taxes are related to income in a particular group under the same rules as those in paragraph (a) of this section except that those rules are applied by apportioning foreign income taxes to the groups described in § 1.904-4(c)(3) through (5) instead of separate categories.


(e) *Allocation and apportionment of deemed paid taxes and certain creditable foreign tax expenditures*—(1) *Taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) or (d).* If a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder includes any amount in gross income under section 951(a)(1)(A) or 951A(a), any foreign tax deemed paid with respect to such amount under section 960(a) or (d) is allocated to the separate category to which the inclusion is assigned.


(2) *Taxes deemed paid under section 960(b)(1).* If a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder receives a distribution of previously taxed earnings and profits from a first-tier corporation that is excluded from the domestic corporation's income under section 959(a) and § 1.959-1, any foreign tax deemed paid under section 960(b)(1) with respect to such distribution is allocated to the same separate category as the annual PTEP account and PTEP group (as defined in § 1.960-3(c)) from which the distribution is made.


(3) *Taxes deemed paid under section 960(b)(2).* If a controlled foreign corporation receives a distribution of previously taxed earnings and profits from an immediately lower-tier corporation that is excluded from such controlled foreign corporation's gross income under section 959(b) and § 1.959-2, any foreign tax deemed paid under section 960(b)(2) with respect to such distribution is allocated to the same separate category as the annual PTEP account and PTEP group (as defined in § 1.960-3(c)) from which the distribution is made. *See also* § 1.960-3(c)(2).


(4) *Creditable foreign tax expenditures*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, creditable foreign tax expenditures (CFTEs) allocated to a partner under § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(*a*) are allocated for purposes of this section to the same separate category as the separate category to which the taxes were allocated in the hands of the partnership under the rules of paragraph (a) of this section.


(ii) *Foreign branch category.* CFTEs allocated to a partner in a partnership under § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(*a*) are allocated and apportioned to the foreign branch category of the partner to the extent that:


(A) The CFTEs are allocated and apportioned by the partnership under the rules of paragraph (a) of this section to the general category;


(B) In the hands of the partnership, the CFTEs are related to general category income attributable to a foreign branch (as described in § 1.904-4(f)(2)) under the principles of paragraph (a) of this section; and


(C) The partner's distributive share of the income described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(B) of this section is foreign branch category income of the partner under § 1.904-4(f)(1)(i)(B).


(f) *Treatment of certain foreign income taxes paid or accrued by United States shareholders.* Some or all of the foreign gross income of a United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation, or of a U.S. person that owns the United States shareholder (the “U.S. owner”), that is attributable to foreign law inclusion regime income with respect to a foreign law CFC described in § 1.861-20(d)(3)(iii) or foreign law pass-through income from a reverse hybrid described in § 1.861-20(d)(3)(i)(C) is assigned to the section 951A category if, were the controlled foreign corporation the taxpayer that recognizes the foreign gross income, the foreign gross income would be assigned to the controlled foreign corporation's tested income group (as defined in § 1.960-1(b)(33)) within the general category to which an inclusion under section 951A is attributable. The amount of the United States shareholder's, or the U.S. owner's, foreign gross income that is assigned to the section 951A category (or a specified separate category associated with the section 951A category) is based on the inclusion percentage (as defined in § 1.960-2(c)(2)) of the United States shareholder. For example, if a United States shareholder has an inclusion percentage of 60 percent, then 60 percent of the foreign gross income of a United States shareholder that would be assigned (under § 1.861-20(d)(3)(iii)) to the tested income group within the general category income of a reverse hybrid that is a controlled foreign corporation to which an inclusion under section 951A is attributable is assigned to the section 951A category or the specified separate category for income resourced under a tax treaty, and not to the general category.


(g) *Applicability dates.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g), this section applies to taxable years that begin after December 31, 2019. Paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies to taxable years that begin after December 31, 2019, and end on or after November 2, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 8214, 53 FR 27029, July 18, 1988, as amended by T.D. 8412, 57 FR 20652, May 14, 1992; T.D. 9141, 69 FR 43308, July 20, 2004; T.D. 9260, 71 FR 24533, Apr. 25, 2006; T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69098, Dec. 17, 2019; T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72059, Nov. 12, 2020; 86 FR 54368, Oct. 1, 2021; T.D. 9959, 87 FR 363, Jan. 4, 2022]




