# ยง 350.215   MCSAP administration: Response to CVSP.

(a) *First year of the CVSP.* (1) FMCSA will notify the Lead State Agency within 30 days after FMCSA begins its review of the State's first year of the CVSP, including the budget, whether FMCSA:


(i) Approves the CVSP; or


(ii) Withholds approval because the CVSP:


(A) Does not meet the requirements of this part; or


(B) Is not adequate to ensure effective enforcement of compatible (as defined in ยง 350.105 of this part) laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety.


(2) If FMCSA withholds approval of the CVSP, FMCSA will give the Lead State Agency a written explanation of the reasons for withholding approval and allow the Lead State Agency to modify and resubmit the CVSP for approval.


(3) The Lead State Agency will have 30 days from the date of the notice under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to modify and resubmit the CVSP.


(4) Failure to resubmit the modified CVSP may delay funding or jeopardize MCSAP eligibility.


(5) Final disapproval of a resubmitted CVSP will result in disqualification for MCSAP funding for that fiscal year.


(b) *Annual update for the second or third year of the CVSP.* (1) FMCSA will notify the Lead State Agency within 30 days after FMCSA begins its review of the State's annual update, including the budget, whether FMCSA:


(i) Approves the annual update; or


(ii) Withholds approval because the annual update:


(A) Does not meet the requirements of this part; or


(B) Is not adequate to ensure effective enforcement of compatible laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety.


(2) If FMCSA withholds approval of the annual update, FMCSA will give the Lead State Agency a written explanation of the reasons for withholding approval and allow the Lead State Agency to modify and resubmit the annual update for approval.


(3) The Lead State Agency will have 30 days from the date of the notice under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to modify and resubmit the annual update.


(4) Failure to resubmit the modified annual update may delay funding or jeopardize MCSAP eligibility.


(5) Final disapproval of a resubmitted annual update will result in disqualification for MCSAP funding for that fiscal year.


(c) *Judicial review.* Any State aggrieved by an adverse decision under this section may seek judicial review under 5 U.S.C. chapter 7.




