# ยง 53.6091-1   Place for filing chapter 42 tax returns.

Except as provided in ยง 53.6091-2 (relating to exceptional cases):


(a) *Persons other than corporations.* Chapter 42 tax returns of persons other than corporations shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office that serves the legal residence or principal place of business of the person required to make the return.


(b) *Corporations.* Chapter 42 tax returns of corporations shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office that serves the principal place of business or principal office or agency of the corporation.


(c) *Returns filed with service centers.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, unless a return is filed by hand carrying, whenever instructions applicable to Chapter 42 tax returns provide that the returns be filed with a service center, the returns must be so filed in accordance with the instructions. Returns which are filed by hand carrying shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive hand-carried returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, whichever is applicable.


(d) *Returns of persons subject to a termination assessment.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, income tax returns of persons with respect to whom a chapter 42 tax assessment was made under section 6852(a) with respect to the taxable year must be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 7368, 40 FR 29843, July 16, 1975, as amended by T.D. 7495, 42 FR 33727, July 1, 1977; T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62212, Dec. 5, 1995; T.D. 9156, 69 FR 55746, Sept. 16, 2004]




