# ยง 210.30   Payment orders.

(a) *Rejection.* A sender shall not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank unless authorized to do so by the Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank may reject, or impose conditions that must be satisfied before it will accept, a payment order for any reason. 


(b) *Selection of an intermediary bank.* For an interdistrict transfer through the Fedwire Funds Service, a Federal Reserve Bank is authorized and directed to execute a payment order through another Federal Reserve Bank. A sender shall not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that requires the Federal Reserve Bank to send a payment order to an intermediary bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) unless that intermediary bank is designated in the sender's payment order. A sender shall not send to a Federal Reserve Bank a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service that instructs use by a Federal Reserve Bank of a funds-transfer system or means of transmission other than the Fedwire Funds Service unless the Federal Reserve Bank agrees with the sender in writing to follow such instructions.


(c) *Execution date and payment date.* A sender shall not send a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service that instructs a Federal Reserve Bank to execute the payment order or to pay the beneficiary on a funds-transfer business day that is later than the Fedwire Funds Service funds-transfer business day on which the order is received by the Federal Reserve Bank, unless the Federal Reserve Bank agrees with the sender in writing to follow such instructions. 



---

[N] [55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990, as amended by Reg. J, 87 FR 34359, June 6, 2022]




