# ยง 252.132   Risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more but less than $100 billion.

(a) *U.S. risk committee certification.* A foreign banking organization subject to this subpart, must, on an annual basis, certify to the Board that it maintains a committee of its global board of directors (or equivalent thereof), on a standalone basis or as part of its enterprise-wide risk committee (or equivalent thereof) that:


(1) Oversees the risk management policies of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization; and


(2) Includes at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex firms.


(b) *Timing of certification.* The certification required under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed on an annual basis with the Board concurrently with the FR Y-7.


(c) *Responsibilities of the foreign banking organization.* The foreign banking organization must take appropriate measures to ensure that its combined U.S. operations implement the risk management policies overseen by the U.S. risk committee described in paragraph (a) of this section, and its combined U.S. operations provide sufficient information to the U.S. risk committee to enable the U.S. risk committee to carry out the responsibilities of this subpart.


(d) *Noncompliance with this section.* If a foreign banking organization does not satisfy the requirements of this section, the Board may impose requirements, conditions, or restrictions relating to the activities or business operations of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization. The Board will coordinate with any relevant State or Federal regulator in the implementation of such requirements, conditions, or restrictions. If the Board determines to impose one or more requirements, conditions, or restrictions under this paragraph, the Board will notify the organization before it applies any requirement, condition or restriction, and describe the basis for imposing such requirement, condition, or restriction. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement, condition, or restriction. The Board will respond in writing to the organization's request for reconsideration prior to applying the requirement, condition, or restriction.



---

[N] [Reg. YY, 79 FR 17323, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019]




