# § 257.82   Hydrologic and hydraulic capacity requirements for CCR surface impoundments.

(a) The owner or operator of an existing or new CCR surface impoundment, legacy CCR surface impoundment, or any lateral expansion of a CCR surface impoundment must design, construct, operate, and maintain an inflow design flood control system as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.








(1) The inflow design flood control system must adequately manage flow into the CCR unit during and following the peak discharge of the inflow design flood specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(2) The inflow design flood control system must adequately manage flow from the CCR unit to collect and control the peak discharge resulting from the inflow design flood specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) The inflow design flood is:


(i) For a high hazard potential CCR surface impoundment, as determined under § 257.73(a)(2) or § 257.74(a)(2), the probable maximum flood;


(ii) For a significant hazard potential CCR surface impoundment, as determined under § 257.73(a)(2) or § 257.74(a)(2), the 1,000-year flood;


(iii) For a low hazard potential CCR surface impoundment, as determined under § 257.73(a)(2) or § 257.74(a)(2), the 100-year flood; or


(iv) For an incised CCR surface impoundment, the 25-year flood.


(b) Discharge from the CCR unit must be handled in accordance with the surface water requirements under § 257.3-3.


(c) *Inflow design flood control system plan*—(1) *Content of the plan.* The owner or operator must prepare initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plans for the CCR unit according to the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section. These plans must document how the inflow design flood control system has been designed and constructed to meet the requirements of this section. Each plan must be supported by appropriate engineering calculations. The owner or operator of the CCR unit has completed the inflow design flood control system plan when the plan has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(4).


(2) *Amendment of the plan.* The owner or operator of the CCR unit may amend the written inflow design flood control system plan at any time provided the revised plan is placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(4). The owner or operator must amend the written inflow design flood control system plan whenever there is a change in conditions that would substantially affect the written plan in effect.


(3) *Timeframes for preparing the initial plan*—(i) *Existing CCR surface impoundments.* The owner or operator of the CCR unit must prepare the initial inflow design flood control system plan no later than October 17, 2016.


(ii) *New CCR surface impoundments and any lateral expansion of a CCR surface impoundment.* The owner or operator must prepare the initial inflow design flood control system plan no later than the date of initial receipt of CCR in the CCR unit.


(4) *Frequency for revising the plan.* The owner or operator must prepare periodic inflow design flood control system plans required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section every five years. The date of completing the initial plan is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first periodic plan. The owner or operator may complete any required plan prior to the required deadline provided the owner or operator places the completed plan into the facility's operating record within a reasonable amount of time. In all cases, the deadline for completing a subsequent plan is based on the date of completing the previous plan. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4), the owner or operator has completed an inflow design flood control system plan when the plan has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(4).


(5) The owner or operator must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority stating that the initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plans meet the requirements of this section.


(d) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(g), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(g), and the internet requirements specified in § 257.107(g).



---

[N] [80 FR 21468, Apr. 17, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 36451, July 30, 2018; 89 FR 39103, May 8, 2024]




