# § 761.40   Other Federal requirements.

In addition to the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A, use of grant funds requires compliance with the following Federal requirements: 


(a) *Labor standards.* (1) When grant funds are used to undertake physical improvements to increase security under § 761.15(b)(3), the following labor standards apply: 


(i) The grantee and its contractors and subcontractors must pay the following prevailing wage rates, and must comply with all related rules, regulations and requirements: 


(A) For laborers and mechanics employed in the program, the wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a *et seq.*) to be prevailing in the locality with respect to such trades; 


(B) For laborers and mechanics employed in carrying out nonroutine maintenance in the program, the HUD-determined prevailing wage rate. As used in paragraph (a) of this section, nonroutine maintenance means work items that ordinarily would be performed on a regular basis in the course of upkeep of a property, but have become substantial in scope because they have been put off, and that involve expenditures that would otherwise materially distort the level trend of maintenance expenses. Nonroutine maintenance may include replacement of equipment and materials rendered unsatisfactory because of normal wear and tear by items of substantially the same kind. Work that constitutes reconstruction, a substantial improvement in the quality or kind of original equipment and materials, or remodeling that alters the nature or type of housing units is not nonroutine maintenance. 


(ii) The employment of laborers and mechanics is subject to the provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-333). 


(2) The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to labor contributed under the following circumstances: 


(i) Upon the request of any resident management corporation, HUD may, subject to applicable collective bargaining agreements, permit residents (for purposes of the Public Housing Program, residents of a program managed by the resident management corporation) to volunteer a portion of their labor.


(ii) An individual may volunteer to perform services if: 


(A) The individual does not receive compensation for the voluntary services, or is paid expenses, reasonable benefits, or a nominal fee for voluntary services; and 


(B) Is not otherwise employed at any time in the work subject to paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) or (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section. 


(b) *Flood insurance.* Grants will not be awarded for proposed activities that involve acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair or improvement of a building or mobile home located in an area that has been identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as having special flood hazards unless: 


(1) The community in which the area is situated is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with 44 CFR parts 59 through 79; or 


(2) Less than a year has passed since FEMA notification to the community regarding such hazards; and 


(3) Flood insurance on the structure is obtained in accordance with section 102(a) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001). 


(c) *Lead-based paint.* The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, H, and R of this title.


(d) *Conflicts of interest.* In addition to the conflict of interest requirements in 2 CFR 200.112 (for all recipients and subrecipients), 200.317 (for recipients and subrecipients that are States), and 200.318(c) and 200.319(a)(5) (for recipients and subrecipients that are not States) for the Public Housing Program, no person, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, may obtain a personal or financial interest or benefit from an activity funded under these drug elimination programs, or have an interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, either for him or herself or for those with whom he or she has family or business ties, during his or her tenure, or for one year thereafter: 


(1) Who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected or appointed official of the grantee, that receives assistance under the program and who exercises or has exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to assisted activities; or 


(2) Who is in a position to participate in a decisionmaking process or gain inside information with regard to such activities. 


(e) *For IHAs,* § 950.115 of this title, “Applicability of civil rights requirements,” and § 950.120 of this title, “Compliance with other Federal requirements,” apply and control to the extent they may differ from other requirements of this section; 


(f) *Intergovernmental Review.* The requirements of Executive Order 12372 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197) and the regulations issued under the Order in part 52 of this title, to the extent provided by _Federal Register_ notice in accordance with 24 CFR 52.3, apply to these programs.


(g) *Environmental review.* Certain eligible activities under this part 761 are categorically excluded from review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321) and are not subject to review under related laws, in accordance with 24 CFR 50.19(b)(4), (b)(12), or (b)(13). If the PHDEP plan proposes the use of grant funds to assist any non-exempt activities, HUD will perform an environmental review to the extent required by 24 CFR part 50, prior to grant award.



---

[N] [61 FR 13987, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 49921, Sept. 14, 1999; 64 FR 50227, Sept. 15, 1999, 80 FR 75941, Dec. 7, 2015]




