# ยง 503.11   Special definitions.

(a) *Agricultural land* is land on which a food crop, a feed crop, or a fiber crop is grown. This includes range land and land used as pasture.


(b) *Agronomic rate* is the whole sludge application rate (dry weight basis) designed:


(1) To provide the amount of nitrogen needed by the food crop, feed crop, fiber crop, cover crop, or vegetation grown on the land; and


(2) To minimize the amount of nitrogen in the sewage sludge that passes below the root zone of the crop or vegetation grown on the land to the ground water.


(c) *Annual pollutant loading rate* is the maximum amount of a pollutant that can be applied to a unit area of land during a 365 day period.


(d) *Annual whole sludge application rate* is the maximum amount of sewage sludge (dry weight basis) that can be applied to a unit area of land during a 365 day period.


(e) *Bulk sewage sludge* is sewage sludge that is not sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land.


(f) *Cumulative pollutant loading rate* is the maximum amount of an inorganic pollutant that can be applied to an area of land.


(g) *Forest* is a tract of land thick with trees and underbrush.


(h) *Land application* is the spraying or spreading of sewage sludge onto the land surface; the injection of sewage sludge below the land surface; or the incorporation of sewage sludge into the soil so that the sewage sludge can either condition the soil or fertilize crops or vegetation grown in the soil.


(i) *Monthly average* is the arithmetic mean of all measurements taken during the month.


(j) *Other container* is either an open or closed receptacle. This includes, but is not limited to, a bucket, a box, a carton, and a vehicle or trailer with a load capacity of one metric ton or less.


(k) *Pasture* is land on which animals feed directly on feed crops such as legumes, grasses, grain stubble, or stover.


(l) *Public contact site* is land with a high potential for contact by the public. This includes, but is not limited to, public parks, ball fields, cemeteries, plant nurseries, turf farms, and golf courses.


(m) *Range land* is open land with indigenous vegetation.


(n) *Reclamation site* is drastically disturbed land that is reclaimed using sewage sludge. This includes, but is not limited to, strip mines and construction sites.




