# § 2.93   Expungement and reexamination procedures.

(a) *Office action.* An Office action issued to a registrant pursuant to § 2.92(f)(2) will require the registrant to provide such evidence of use, information, exhibits, affidavits, or declarations as may be reasonably necessary to rebut the prima facie case of nonuse by establishing that the required use in commerce has been made on or in connection with the goods and/or services at issue as of the date relevant to the proceeding. The Office action may also include requirements under §§ 2.11, 2.23, and 2.189, as appropriate.


(b) *Response*—(1) *Deadline.* Unless the registrant is notified otherwise in an Office action, the registrant's response to an Office action must be received by the Office within three months from the issue date. The time for response to a non-final Office action may be extended by one month upon timely request and payment of the fee set forth in § 2.6(a)(27). To be considered timely, a request for extension of time must be received by the Office on or before the deadline for response set forth in the non-final Office action. If the registrant fails to timely respond to a non-final Office action or timely submit a request for extension of time, the proceeding will terminate, and the registration will be cancelled as to the relevant goods and/or services.


(2) *Substantially complete response.* When a timely response is a bona fide attempt to advance the proceeding and is a substantially complete response to the outstanding Office action, but consideration of some matter or compliance with a requirement has been omitted, the registrant may be granted 30 days, or to the end of the time period for response to the action to which the substantially complete response was submitted, whichever is longer, to explain and supply the omission.


(3) *Signature.* The response must be signed by the registrant, someone with legal authority to bind the registrant (e.g., a corporate officer or general partner of a partnership), or a practitioner qualified to practice under § 11.14 of this chapter, in accordance with the requirements of § 2.193(e)(2).


(4) *Form.* Responses and requests for extensions of time must be submitted through TEAS. Responses sent via email or facsimile will not be accorded a date of receipt.


(5) *Response in an expungement proceeding.* In an expungement proceeding, an acceptable response consists of one or more of the following:


(i) Evidence of use, in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section, establishing that use of the mark in commerce occurred on or in connection with the goods and/or services at issue either before the filing date of the relevant petition to expunge under § 2.91(a)(1) or before the date the Director-initiated proceeding was instituted by the Director under § 2.92(b), as appropriate;


(ii) Verified statements signed by someone with firsthand knowledge of the facts to be proved and supporting evidence to establish that any nonuse as to particular goods and/or services with a sole basis under section 44(e) or section 66(a) of the Act is due to special circumstances that excuse such nonuse; and/or


(iii) Deletion of some or all of the goods and/or services at issue in the proceeding, if appropriate, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.


(6) *Response in a reexamination proceeding.* In a reexamination proceeding, an acceptable response consists of one or more of the following:


(i) Evidence of use, in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section, establishing that use of the mark in commerce occurred on or in connection with each particular good and/or service at issue, on or before the relevant date set forth in § 2.91(a)(2); and/or


(ii) Deletion of some or all of the goods and/or services at issue in the proceeding, if appropriate, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.


(7) *Evidence of use.* Evidence of use of the mark in commerce on or in connection with any particular good and/or service must be consistent with the definition of “use in commerce” set forth in section 45 of the Act and is not limited in form to that of specimens under § 2.56. Any evidence of use must be accompanied by a verified statement signed by someone with firsthand knowledge of the facts to be proved, setting forth in numbered paragraphs factual information about the use of the mark in commerce, including a description of the supporting evidence and how the evidence demonstrates use of the mark in commerce as of any relevant date for the goods and/or services at issue. Evidence must be labeled, and an itemized index of the evidence must be provided such that the particular goods and/or services supported by each item submitted as evidence of use are clear.


(c) *Action after response.* After response by the registrant, the Office will review the registrant's evidence of use or showing of applicable excusable nonuse, and/or arguments, and determine compliance with any requirement.


(1) *Final Office action.* If the registrant's timely response fails to rebut the prima facie case of nonuse or fully comply with all outstanding requirements, a final Office action will issue that addresses the evidence, includes the examiner's decision, and maintains any outstanding requirement. After issuance of a final Office action, the registrant may respond by filing within three months from the issue date of the final Office action:


(i) A request for reconsideration of the final Office action that seeks to further address the issue of use of the mark in commerce and/or comply with any outstanding requirement maintained in the final action; or


(ii) An appeal to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board under § 2.141.


(2) *Time for filing a request for reconsideration or petition to the Director.* (i) A request for reconsideration must be filed prior to the expiration of time provided for an appeal in § 2.142(a)(2). Filing a request for reconsideration does not stay or extend the time for filing an appeal or a petition under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) Prior to the expiration of time for filing an appeal to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board under § 2.142(a)(2), a registrant may file a petition to the Director under § 2.146 for relief from any outstanding requirement under §§ 2.11, 2.23, and 2.189 made final. If the petition is denied, the registrant will have 3 months from the date of issuance of the final action that contained the final requirement, or 30 days from the date of the decision on the petition, whichever date is later, to comply with the requirement. A requirement that is the subject of a petition decided by the Director may not subsequently be the subject of an appeal to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.


(3) *Termination of proceeding.* (i) If, upon review of any timely response, the Office finds that the registrant has rebutted the prima facie case of nonuse and complied with all outstanding requirements, the proceeding will terminate and a notice of termination shall be issued under § 2.94.


(ii) If, after issuance of the final action, the registrant fails to timely comply with any outstanding requirement, or the Office finds that the registrant has failed to rebut the prima facie case of nonuse of the mark on or in connection with any of the goods and/or services at issue in the proceeding, the proceeding will terminate, and a notice of termination shall be issued under § 2.94 after the time for appeal has expired or any appeal proceeding has terminated, pursuant to §§ 2.142 through 2.145.


(d) *Deletion of goods and/or services.* The registrant may respond to an Office action under this section by requesting that some or all of the goods and/or services at issue in the proceeding be deleted from the registration. No other amendment to the identification of goods or services in a registration will be permitted in a response.


(1) An acceptable deletion requested in a response under this section shall be immediate in effect, and reinsertion of goods and/or services or further amendments that would add to or expand the scope of the goods and/or services shall not be permitted. Deletion of goods and/or services in an expungement or reexamination proceeding after the submission and prior to the acceptance of an affidavit or declaration under section 8 or 71 of the Act will result in a fee under § 2.161(c) or § 7.37(c) of this chapter.


(2) A submission other than one made under this section, including a request to surrender the subject registration for cancellation under § 2.172 or a request to amend the registration under § 2.173, filed after the issuance of an Office action under this section, does not constitute a sufficient response to an Office action under this section. The registrant must notify the Office of such submission in a timely response.


(3) Deletion of goods and/or services at issue in a pending proceeding in a response, a surrender for cancellation under § 2.172, an amendment of the registration under § 2.173, or any other accepted submission, shall render the proceeding moot as to those goods and/or services, and no further determination will be made regarding the registrant's use of the mark in commerce as to those goods and/or services.



---

[N] [86 FR 64329, Nov. 17, 2021]




