# § 1600.1   Definitions.

As used in these regulations, chapter XVI, unless otherwise indicated, the term—


*Act* means the Legal Services Corporation Act, Pub. L. 93-355 (1974), as amended, Pub. L. 95-222 (1977), 42 U.S.C. 2996-29961.


*Appeal* means any appellate proceeding in a civil action as defined by law or usage in the jurisdiction in which the action is filed.


*Attorney* means a person who provides legal assistance to eligible clients and who is authorized to practice law in the jurisdiction where assistance is rendered.


*Control* means the direct or indirect ability to determine the direction of management and policies or to influence the management or operating policies of another organization to the extent that an arm's-length transaction may not be achieved. 


*Corporation* means the Legal Services Corporation established under the Act.


*Corporation funds* or *LSC funds* means any funds appropriated to LSC by Congress to carry out the purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 2996 *et seq.,* as amended.


*Director of a recipient* means a person directly employed by a recipient in an executive capacity who has overall day-to-day responsibility for management of operations by a recipient.


*Eligible client* means any person determined to be eligible for legal assistance under the Act, these regulations or other applicable law.


*Employee* means a person employed by the Corporation or by a recipient, or a person employed by a subrecipient whose salary is paid in whole or in major part with funds provided by the Corporation.


*Fee generating case* means any case or matter which, if undertaken on behalf of an eligible client by an attorney in private practice, reasonably may be expected to result in a fee for legal services from an award to a client from public funds or from an opposing party.


*Financial assistance* means annualized funding from the Corporation granted under section 1006(a)(1)(A) for the direct delivery of legal assistance to eligible clients.


*Legal assistance* means the provisions of any legal services consistent with the purposes and provisions of the Act or other applicable law.


*Non-LSC funds* means any funds that are not Corporation funds or LSC funds.


*Outside practice of law* means the provisions of legal assistance to a client who is not eligible to receive legal assistance from the employer of the attorney rendering assistance, but does not include, among other activities, teaching, consulting, or performing evaluations.


*Political* means that which relates to engendering public support for or opposition to candidates for public office, ballot measures, or political parties, and would include publicity or propaganda used for that purpose.


*President* means the President of the Corporation.


*Public funds* means the funds received directly or indirectly from the Corporation or a Federal, State, or local government or instrumentality of a government.


*Recipient* means any grantee or contractor receiving financial assistance from the Corporation under section 1006(a)(1)(A) of the Act.


*Staff attorney* means an attorney more than one half of whose annual professional income is derived from the proceeds of a grant from the Legal Services Corporation or is received from a recipient, subrecipient, grantee, or contractor that limits its activities to providing legal assistance to clients eligible for assistance under the Act.


*Tribal funds* means funds received from an Indian tribe or from a private foundation for the benefit of an Indian tribe.



---

[N] [49 FR 21327, May 21, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 24827, July 9, 1986; 82 FR 37337, Aug. 10, 2017]




