# § 721.11591   1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, 1,4-bis(2-phenoxyethyl) ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,4-benzenedicarboxylic acid, 1,4-bis(2-phenoxyethyl) ester (PMN P-19-36; CAS No. 25900-07-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure of confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solids or liquid droplets).


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4), where N = 3.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part may apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain modification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 73946, Dec. 2, 2022]










