# § 29.1401   Anticollision light system.

(a) *General.* If certification for night operation is requested, the rotorcraft must have an anticollision light system that—


(1) Consists of one or more approved anticollision lights located so that their emitted light will not impair the crew's vision or detract from the conspicuity of the position lights; and 


(2) Meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. 


(b) *Field of coverage.* The system must consist of enough lights to illuminate the vital areas around the rotorcraft, considering the physical configuration and flight characteristics of the rotorcraft. The field of coverage must extend in each direction within at least 30 degrees above and 30 degrees below the horizontal plane of the rotorcraft, except that there may be solid angles of obstructed visibility totaling not more than 0.5 steradians. 


(c) *Flashing characteristics.* The arrangement of the system, that is, the number of light sources, beam width, speed of rotation, and other characteristics, must give an effective flash frequency of not less than 40, nor more than 100, cycles per minute. The effective flash frequency is the frequency at which the rotorcraft's complete anticollision light system is observed from a distance, and applies to each sector of light including any overlaps that exist when the system consists of more than one light source. In overlaps, flash frequencies may exceed 100, but not 180, cycles per minute. 


(d) *Color.* Each anticollision light must be aviation red and must meet the applicable requirements of § 29.1397. 


(e) *Light intensity.* The minimum light intensities in any vertical plane, measured with the red filter (if used) and expressed in terms of “effective” intensities must meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. The following relation must be assumed: 


(f) *Minimum effective intensities for anticollision light.* Each anticollision light effective intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table:



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-7, 36 FR 12972, July 10, 1971; Amdt. 29-11, 41 FR 5290, Feb. 5, 1976] 




