# ยง 24.137   Alternate use of the wine premises for customs purposes.

(a) *General.* The wine premises may be alternated as a customs bonded warehouse under applicable customs laws and regulations, for the purpose of measuring, gauging, and bottling or packing wine. The use of the portion of the wine premises alternated as a customs bonded warehouse is subject to the approval of the district director of customs and the appropriate TTB officer. When it is necessary to convey wine in customs custody across bonded wine premises, the proprietor shall comply with the provisions of ยง 24.92.


(b) *Qualifying documents.* Where the proprietor desires to alternate a portion of wine premises for customs use, the following qualifying documents will be filed:


(1) TTB F 5120.25 to cover the alternation;


(2) A diagram clearly depicting any area, building, floor, room or major equipment in use during the alternation; and


(3) Any other documents or additional information the appropriate TTB officer may require.


(c) *Alternation.* After approval of the qualifying documents by the appropriate TTB officer, the proprietor may alternate the wine premises. Portions of the wine premises to be excluded by curtailment or included by extension may not be used for purposes other than those authorized. Prior to the effective date and hour of the alternation, the proprietor shall remove all wine and spirits from the portion of the wine premises to be alternated for customs purposes. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-344, 58 FR 40354, July 28, 1993; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, 13685, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87941, Nov. 6, 2024]




