# ยง 3286.113   Information provided by retailer.

(a) *Tracking information.* Within 30 days from the time a purchaser or lessee enters into a contract to purchase or lease a manufactured home, the retailer or distributor of the home must provide HUD with the following information:


(1) The home's serial number and manufacturer's certification label number;


(2) The name and address of the retailer or distributor that is selling or leasing the home;


(3) The state and address where the home is to be sited, and, if known, the name of the local jurisdiction; and


(4) The name of the purchaser or lessee.


(b) *Installation information.* Within 30 days from the date of installation, the retailer or distributor of the home must provide HUD with the following information:


(1) The name, address, telephone number, and license number of the licensed installer;


(2) The date of installer certification of completion of the installation;


(3) The date a qualified inspector verified the installation as being in compliance with the requirements of this part; and


(4) The name, address, and telephone number of the qualified inspector who performed the inspection of the installation as required by ยง 3286.109.


(c) *Method of providing information.* (1) The retailer or distributor must provide a copy of the information set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to HUD by providing a copy of the information to HUD by facsimile, e-mail, or first-class or overnight delivery.


(2) The information must be sent to: Administrator, Office of Manufactured Housing Programs, HUD, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Room 9164, Washington, DC 20410-8000, or to a fax number or e-mail address obtained by calling the Office of Manufactured Housing Programs. For convenience only, the URL of the Web site is *http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/mhs/mhshome.cfm* and the toll-free telephone number to contact the Office of Manufactured Housing Programs is 1-800-927-2891, extension 57.


(d) *Correcting information.* If the information provided by the retailer changes after it has been provided to HUD, the retailer must correct the information within 10 business days after the retailer learns of the change.


(e) *Record retention requirements.* The retailer or distributor must maintain a copy of the records required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for 3 years from the date of installation, as under ยง 3286.115.




