# § 60.40c   Applicability and delegation of authority.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each steam generating unit for which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after June 9, 1989 and that has a maximum design heat input capacity of 29 megawatts (MW) (100 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/h)) or less, but greater than or equal to 2.9 MW (10 MMBtu/h).


(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Clean Air Act, § 60.48c(a)(4) shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.


(c) Steam generating units that meet the applicability requirements in paragraph (a) of this section are not subject to the sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) or particulate matter (PM) emission limits, performance testing requirements, or monitoring requirements under this subpart (§ 60.42c, § 60.43c, § 60.44c, § 60.45c, § 60.46c, or § 60.47c) during periods of combustion research, as defined in § 60.41c.


(d) Any temporary change to an existing steam generating unit for the purpose of conducting combustion research is not considered a modification under § 60.14.


(e) Affected facilities (*i.e.* heat recovery steam generators and fuel heaters) that are associated with stationary combustion turbines and meet the applicability requirements of subpart KKKK of this part are not subject to this subpart. This subpart will continue to apply to all other heat recovery steam generators, fuel heaters, and other affected facilities that are capable of combusting more than or equal to 2.9 MW (10 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel but less than or equal to 29 MW (100 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel. If the heat recovery steam generator, fuel heater, or other affected facility is subject to this subpart, only emissions resulting from combustion of fuels in the steam generating unit are subject to this subpart. (The stationary combustion turbine emissions are subject to subpart GG or KKKK, as applicable, of this part.)


(f) Any affected facility that meets the applicability requirements of and is subject to subpart AAAA or subpart CCCC of this part is not subject to this subpart.


(g) Any facility that meets the applicability requirements and is subject to an EPA approved State or Federal section 111(d)/129 plan implementing subpart BBBB of this part is not subject to this subpart.


(h) Affected facilities that also meet the applicability requirements under subpart J or subpart Ja of this part are subject to the PM and NO_X_ standards under this subpart and the SO_2_ standards under subpart J or subpart Ja of this part, as applicable.


(i) Temporary boilers are not subject to this subpart.



---

[N] [72 FR 32759, June 13, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 5090, Jan. 28, 2009; 77 FR 9461, Feb. 16, 2012]




