# ยง 702.1   General provisions.

(a) *Purpose.* This regulation establishes the risk-based screening process for designating chemical substances as a High-Priority Substance or a Low-Priority Substance for risk evaluation as required under section 6(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2605(b)).


(b) *Scope of designations.* EPA will make priority designations pursuant to these procedures for a chemical substance, not for a specific condition or conditions of uses of a chemical substance.


(c) *Categories of chemical substances.* Nothing in this subpart shall be interpreted as a limitation on EPA's authority under 15 U.S.C. 2625(c) to take action, including the actions contemplated in this subpart, on a category of chemical substances.


(d) *Prioritization timeframe.* The Agency will publish a final priority designation for a chemical substance in no fewer than 9 months and no longer than 1 year following initiation of prioritization pursuant to ยง 702.7.


(e) *Metals or metal compounds.* EPA will identify priorities for chemical substances that are metals or metal compounds in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 2605(b)(2)(E).


(f) *Applicability.* These regulations do not apply to any chemical substance for which a manufacturer requests a risk evaluation under 15 U.S.C. 2605(b)(4)(C).


(g) *Scientific standards and weight of the scientific evidence.* EPA's proposed priority designations under ยง 702.9 and final priority designations under ยง 702.11 will be consistent with the scientific standards provision in 15 U.S.C. 2625(h) and the weight of the scientific evidence provision in 15 U.S.C. 2625(i).


(h) *Interagency collaboration.* EPA will consult with other relevant Federal Agencies during the administration of this subpart.




