# ยง 141.860   Violations.

(a) *E. coli MCL Violation.* A system is in violation of the MCL for *E. coli* when any of the conditions identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section occur.


(1) The system has an *E. coli*-positive repeat sample following a total coliform-positive routine sample.


(2) The system has a total coliform-positive repeat sample following an *E. coli*-positive routine sample.


(3) The system fails to take all required repeat samples following an *E. coli*-positive routine sample.


(4) The system fails to test for *E. coli* when any repeat sample tests positive for total coliform.


(b) *Treatment technique violation.* (1) A treatment technique violation occurs when a system exceeds a treatment technique trigger specified in ยง 141.859(a) and then fails to conduct the required assessment or corrective actions within the timeframe specified in ยง 141.859(b) and (c).


(2) A treatment technique violation occurs when a seasonal system fails to complete a State-approved start-up procedure prior to serving water to the public.


(c) *Monitoring violations.* (1) Failure to take every required routine or additional routine sample in a compliance period is a monitoring violation.


(2) Failure to analyze for *E. coli* following a total coliform-positive routine sample is a monitoring violation.


(d) *Reporting violations.* (1) Failure to submit a monitoring report or completed assessment form after a system properly conducts monitoring or assessment in a timely manner is a reporting violation.


(2) Failure to notify the State following an *E. coli*-positive sample as required by ยง 141.858(b)(1) in a timely manner is a reporting violation.


(3) Failure to submit certification of completion of State-approved start-up procedure by a seasonal system is a reporting violation.




