# § 1515.9   Appeal of security threat assessment based on other analyses.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to an applicant appealing an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment as follows:


(1) TSA has determined that the applicant for an HME or TWIC poses a security threat as provided in 49 CFR 1572.107.


(2) TSA had determined that an air cargo worker poses a security threat as provided in 49 CFR 1540.205.


(3) TSA had determined that an individual engaged in air cargo operations who works for certain aircraft operators, foreign air carriers, IACs, or certified cargo screening facilities, poses a security threat as provided in 49 CFR 1549.109.


(b) *Grounds for appeal.* An applicant may appeal an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment if the applicant is asserting that he or she does not pose a security threat. The appeal will be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in 49 CFR 1515.5(b), (e), and (f) and this section.


(c) *Final Determination of Threat Assessment.* (1) If the Assistant Administrator concludes that the applicant poses a security threat, following an appeal, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment upon the applicant. In addition—


(i) In the case of an HME, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the licensing State.


(ii) In the case of a TWIC, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the Coast Guard.


(iii) In the case of an air cargo worker, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the operator.


(iv) In the case of a certified cargo screening facilities worker, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the operator.


(2) The Final Determination includes a statement that the Assistant Administrator has reviewed the Initial Determination, the applicant's reply and any accompanying information, and any other materials or information available to him or her, and has determined that the applicant poses a security threat warranting denial of the security threat assessment for which the applicant has applied.


(d) *Withdrawal of Initial Determination.* If the Assistant Administrator concludes that the applicant does not pose a security threat, TSA serves a Withdrawal of the Initial Determination upon the applicant, and the applicant's employer where applicable.


(e) *Further review.* If the Assistant Administrator denies the appeal, the applicant may seek review in accordance with § 1515.11 of this part. A Final Determination issued under this section does not constitute a final order of TSA as provided in 49 U.S.C. 46110.


(f) *Appeal of immediate revocation.* If TSA directs an immediate revocation, the applicant may appeal this determination by following the appeal procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section. This applies—


(1) If TSA directs a State to revoke an HME pursuant to 49 CFR 1572.13(a).


(2) If TSA invalidates a TWIC by issuing an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation pursuant to 49 CFR 1572.21(d)(3).


(3) If TSA withdraws a Determination of No Security Threat for an individual engaged in air cargo operations who works for certain aircraft operators, foreign air carriers, IACs, or certified cargo screening facilities.



---

[N] [72 FR 3588, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 47695, Sept. 16, 2009; 76 FR 51867, Aug. 18, 2011]




