# § 10.5   Definitions.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions apply in this part:


*Administrator* means the head of an operating administration and includes the Under Secretary for Security and the Commandant of the Coast Guard.


*Department* means the Department of Transportation, including the Office of the Secretary, the Office of Inspector General, and the following operating administrations: This definition specifically excludes the Surface Transportation Board, which has its own Privacy Act regulations (49 CFR Part 1007), except to the extent that any system of records notice provides otherwise.


(1) Federal Aviation Administration.


(2) Federal Highway Administration.


(3) Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.


(4) Federal Railroad Administration.


(5) Federal Transit Administration.


(6) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


(7) St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.


(8) Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.


(9) Research and Innovative Technology Administration.


(10) Maritime Administration.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Department.


*Includes* means “includes but is not limited to;”


*Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted;


*Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate;


*May* is used in a permissive sense to state authority or permission to do the act prescribed;


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Department including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name of, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to, the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph;


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation or any person to whom has been delegated authority in the matter concerned;


*System of records* means a group of any records under the control of the Department from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual;


*Statistical record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by section 8 of title 13, United States Code; and


*Routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. 



---

[N] [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997; 65 FR 48184, Aug. 7, 2000; 67 FR 54746, Aug. 26, 2002; 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008]




