# § 54.2002   Eligible recipients.

(a) *Schools.* (1) Only schools meeting the definition of “elementary school” or “secondary school”, as defined in § 54.2000, and not excluded under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, shall be eligible for discounts on supported services under this subpart.


(2) Schools operating as for-profit businesses shall not be eligible for discounts under this subpart.


(3) Schools with endowments exceeding $50,000,000 shall not be eligible for discounts under this subpart.


(b) *Libraries.* (1) Only libraries eligible for assistance from a State library administrative agency under the Library Services and Technology Act (20 U.S.C. 9122) and not excluded under paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section shall be eligible for discounts under this subpart.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a library's eligibility for discounts under this subpart shall depend on its funding as an independent entity. Only libraries whose budgets are completely separate from any schools (including, but not limited to, elementary and secondary schools, colleges, and universities) shall be eligible for discounts as libraries under this subpart.


(3) Libraries operating as for-profit businesses shall not be eligible for discounts under this subpart.


(4) A Tribal college or university library that serves as a public library by having dedicated library staff, regular hours, and a collection available for public use in its community shall be eligible for discounts under this subpart.


(c) *Consortia*—(1) *Consortium Leader.* Each consortium seeking support under this subpart must identify an entity or organization that will lead the consortium (the “Consortium Leader”). The Consortium Leader may be an eligible school or library participating in the consortium; a state organization; public sector governmental entity, including a Tribal government entity; or a non-profit entity that is ineligible for support under this subpart. Ineligible state organizations, public sector entities, or non-profit entities may serve as Consortium Leaders or provide consulting assistance to consortia only if they do not participate as potential service providers during the competitive bidding process. An ineligible entity that serves as the Consortium Leader must pass through the full value of any discounts, funding, or other program benefits secured to the eligible schools and libraries that are members of the consortium.


(2) For consortia, discounts under this subpart shall apply only to the portion of eligible services and equipment used by eligible schools and libraries.


(3) Service providers shall keep and retain records of rates charged to and discounts allowed for eligible schools and libraries on their own or as part of a consortium. Such records shall be available for public inspection.






