# § 63.11120   What testing and monitoring requirements must I meet?

(a) Each owner or operator, at the time of installation, as specified in § 63.11113(e), of a vapor balance system required under § 63.11118(b)(1), and every 3 years thereafter, must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) You must demonstrate compliance with the leak rate and cracking pressure requirements, specified in item 1(g) of Table 1 to this subpart, for pressure-vacuum vent valves installed on your gasoline storage tanks using the test methods identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.1E,—Leak Rate and Cracking Pressure of Pressure/Vacuum Vent Valves, adopted October 8, 2003 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).


(2) You must demonstrate compliance with the static pressure performance requirement specified in item 1(h) of Table 1 to this subpart for your vapor balance system by conducting a static pressure test on your gasoline storage tanks using the test methods identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), or (a)(2)(iii) of this section.


(i) California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.3,—Determination of 2-Inch WC Static Pressure Performance of Vapor Recovery Systems of Dispensing Facilities, adopted April 12, 1996, and amended March 17, 1999 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).


(iii) Bay Area Air Quality Management District Source Test Procedure ST-30—Static Pressure Integrity Test—Underground Storage Tanks, adopted November 30, 1983, and amended December 21, 1994 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 63.14).


(b) Each owner or operator choosing, under the provisions of § 63.6(g), to use a vapor balance system other than that described in Table 1 to this subpart must demonstrate to the Administrator or delegated authority under paragraph § 63.11131(a) of this subpart, the equivalency of their vapor balance system to that described in Table 1 to this subpart using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting an initial performance test on the vapor balance system to demonstrate that the vapor balance system achieves 95 percent reduction using the California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.1,—Volumetric Efficiency for Phase I Vapor Recovery Systems, adopted April 12, 1996, and amended February 1, 2001, and October 8, 2003, (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(2) You must, during the initial performance test required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, determine and document alternative acceptable values for the leak rate and cracking pressure requirements specified in item 1(g) of Table 1 to this subpart and for the static pressure performance requirement in item 1(h) of Table 1 to this subpart.


(3) You must comply with the testing requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) Conduct of performance tests. Performance tests conducted for this subpart shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance (*i.e.,* performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(d) Owners and operators of gasoline cargo tanks subject to the provisions of Table 2 to this subpart must conduct annual certification testing according to the vapor tightness testing requirements found in § 63.11092(f).



---

[N] [73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4182, Jan. 24, 2011]




