# ยง 460.78   Dietary services.

(a) *Meal requirements.* (1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, the PACE organization must ensure, through the assessment and care planning process, that each participant receives nourishing, palatable, well-balanced meals that meet the participant's daily nutritional and special dietary needs. Each meal must meet the following requirements:


(i) Be prepared by methods that conserve nutritive value, flavor, and appearance.


(ii) Be prepared in a form designed to meet individual needs.


(iii) Be prepared and served at the proper temperature.


(2) The PACE organization must provide substitute foods or nutritional supplements that meet the daily nutritional and special dietary needs of any participant who has any of the following problems:


(i) Refuses the food served.


(ii) Cannot tolerate the food served.


(iii) Does not eat adequately.


(3) The PACE organization must provide nutrition support to meet the daily nutritional needs of a participant, if indicated by his or her medical condition or diagnosis. Nutrition support consists of tube feedings, total parenteral nutrition, or peripheral parenteral nutrition.


(b) *Sanitary conditions.* The PACE organization must do the following:


(1) Procure foods (including nutritional supplements and nutrition support items) from sources approved, or considered satisfactory, by Federal, State, Tribal, or local authorities with jurisdiction over the service area of the organization.


(2) Store, prepare, distribute, and serve foods (including nutritional supplements and nutrition support items) under sanitary conditions.


(3) Dispose of garbage and refuse properly.



---

[N] [64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 71335, Dec. 8, 2006]




