# ยง 91.520   Performance reports.

(a) *General.* Each jurisdiction that has an approved consolidated plan shall annually review and report, in a form prescribed by HUD, on the progress it has made in carrying out its strategic plan and its action plan. The performance report must include a description of the resources made available, the investment of available resources, the geographic distribution and location of investments, the families and persons assisted (including the racial and ethnic status of persons assisted), actions taken to affirmatively further fair housing, and other actions indicated in the strategic plan and the action plan. This performance report shall be submitted to HUD within 90 days after the close of the jurisdiction's program year. 


(b) *Affordable housing.* The report shall include an evaluation of the jurisdiction's progress in meeting its specific objective of providing affordable housing, including the number and types of families served. This element of the report must include the number of extremely low-income, low-income, moderate-income, middle-income, and homeless persons served.


(c) *Homelessness.* The report must include, in a form prescribed by HUD, an evaluation of the jurisdiction's progress in meeting its specific objectives for reducing and ending homelessness through:


(1) Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their individual needs;


(2) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons;


(3) Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time that individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again; and


(4) Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely low-income individuals and families and those who are


(i) Likely to become homeless after being discharged from publicly funded institutions and systems of care (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions);


(ii) Receiving assistance from public or private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, education, or youth needs.


(d) *CDBG.* For CDBG recipients, the report shall include a description of the use of CDBG funds during the program year and an assessment by the jurisdiction of the relationship of that use to the priorities and specific objectives identified in the plan, giving special attention to the highest priority activities that were identified. This element of the report must specify the nature of and reasons for any changes in its program objectives and indications of how the jurisdiction would change its programs as a result of its experiences. This element of the report also must include the number of extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income persons served by each activity where information on income by family size is required to determine the eligibility of the activity. 


(e) *HOME.* For HOME participating jurisdictions, the report shall include the results of on-site inspections of affordable rental housing assisted under the program to determine compliance with housing codes and other applicable regulations, an assessment of the jurisdiction's affirmative marketing actions and outreach to minority-owned and women-owned businesses, data on the amount and use of program income for projects, including the number of projects and owner and tenant characteristics, and data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 24 CFR 92.359, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.


(f) *HOPWA.* For jurisdictions receiving funding under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, the report must include the number of individuals assisted and the types of assistance provided, as well as data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e), pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.


(g) *ESG.* For jurisdictions receiving funding under the ESG program provided in 24 CFR part 576, the report, in a form prescribed by HUD, must include the number of persons assisted, the types of assistance provided, the project or program outcomes data measured under the performance standards developed in consultation with the Continuum(s) of Care, and data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 24 CFR 576.409, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.


(h) *HTF.* For jurisdictions receiving HTF funds, the report must describe the HTF program's accomplishments, and the extent to which the jurisdiction complied with its approved HTF allocation plan and the requirements of 24 CFR part 93, as well as data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 24 CFR 93.356, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.


(i) *Evaluation by HUD.* HUD shall review the performance report and determine whether it is satisfactory. If a satisfactory report is not submitted in a timely manner, HUD may suspend funding until a satisfactory report is submitted, or may withdraw and reallocate funding if HUD determines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the jurisdiction will not submit a satisfactory report.


(j) The report will include a comparison of the proposed versus actual outcomes for each outcome measure submitted with the consolidated plan and explain, if applicable, why progress was not made toward meeting goals and objectives.



---

[N] [60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6971, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75973, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015; 81 FR 80803, Nov. 16, 2016]




