# § 127.1407   Tests.

(a) Each operator of a waterfront facility handling LHG must conduct a static liquid-pressure test of the piping, hoses, and loading arms of the LHG-transfer system located in the marine transfer area for LHG, and must verify the set pressure of the safety and relief valves—


(1) After the system or the valves are altered;


(2) After major repairs to the system or the valves;


(3) After any increase in the MAWP of the system; and


(4) At least once each calendar year, with intervals between tests not exceeding 15 months.


(b) The pressure for the test under paragraph (a) of this section must be at least 1.1 times the MAWP and last for at least 30 minutes.


(c) The operator must conduct a test of each pressure gauge, to ensure that the displayed pressure is within 10 percent of the actual pressure, at least once each calendar year, with intervals between tests not exceeding 15 months.


(d) The operator must conduct a test of each item of remote operating or indicating equipment, such as a remotely operated valve, at least once each calendar year, with intervals between tests not exceeding 15 months.


(e) The operator must conduct a test of the emergency shutdown required by § 127.1205 at least once every two months, to ensure that it will perform as intended. If transfers of LHG occur less often than every two months, the operator may conduct this test before each transfer instead of every two months.


(f) The operator must conduct a test of the warning alarm required by § 127.1207 at least once every six months, to ensure that it will perform as intended. If transfers of LHG occur less often than every six months, the operator may conduct this test before each transfer instead of every six months.



---

[N] [CGD 88-049, 60 FR 39796, Aug. 3, 1995, as amended by USCG-2019-0444, 87 FR 5692, Feb. 2, 2022]










