# § 423.800   Administration of subsidy program.

(a) *Notification of eligibility for low-income subsidy.* CMS notifies the Part D sponsor offering the Part D plan, in which a subsidy eligible individual is enrolled, of the individual's eligibility for a subsidy under this section and the amount of the subsidy.


(b) *Reduction of premium or cost-sharing by PDP sponsor or organization.* Based on information provided by CMS under paragraph (a) of this section, or obtained under paragraph (d) of this section, the Part D sponsor offering the Part D plan in which a subsidy eligible individual is enrolled must reduce the individual's premiums and cost-sharing as applicable, and provide information to CMS on the amount of those reductions, in a manner determined by CMS. The Part D sponsor must track the application of the subsidies under this subpart to be applied to the out-of-pocket threshold.


(c) *Reimbursement for cost-sharing paid before notification of eligibility for low-income subsidy.* The Part D sponsor offering the Part D plan must reimburse subsidy eligible individuals, and organizations paying cost-sharing on behalf of such individuals, any excess premiums and cost-sharing paid by such individual or organization after the effective date of the individual's eligibility for a subsidy under this subpart.


(d) *Use of the best available evidence process to establish cost-sharing.* Part D sponsors must—


(1) Accept best available evidence as defined in § 423.772 of this part received from beneficiaries or other individuals acting directly on their behalf; and


(2) Update the subsidy eligible individual's LIS status. and respond to requests for assistance in securing acceptable evidence of subsidy eligibility from beneficiaries or other individuals acting directly on their behalf in accordance with the process(es) established by CMS, and within the reasonable timeframe(s) as determined by CMS.


(e) *Timeframe for refunds and recoveries due to retroactive adjustments to cost sharing.* Sponsors must process retroactive adjustments to cost-sharing for low-income subsidy eligible individuals and any resulting refunds and recoveries in accordance with the timeframe specified in § 423.466(a) of this part.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 1549, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19825, Apr. 15, 2010]




