# § 1.66-2   Treatment of community income where spouses live apart.

(a) Community income of spouses domiciled in a community property state will be treated in accordance with the rules provided by section 879(a) if all of the following requirements are satisfied—


(1) The spouses are married to each other at any time during the calendar year;


(2) The spouses live apart at all times during the calendar year;


(3) The spouses do not file a joint return with each other for a taxable year beginning or ending in the calendar year;


(4) One or both spouses have earned income that is community income for the calendar year; and


(5) No portion of such earned income is transferred (directly or indirectly) between such spouses before the close of the calendar year.


(b) *Living apart.* For purposes of this section, living apart requires that spouses maintain separate residences. Spouses who maintain separate residences due to temporary absences are not considered to be living apart. Spouses who are not members of the same household under § 1.6015-3(b) are considered to be living apart for purposes of this section.


(c) *Transferred income.* For purposes of this section, transferred income does not include a *de minimis* amount of earned income that is transferred between the spouses. In addition, any amount of earned income transferred for the benefit of the spouses' child will not be treated as an indirect transfer to one spouse. Additionally, income transferred between spouses is presumed to be a transfer of earned income. This presumption is rebuttable.


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section:



---

[N] [T.D. 9074, 68 FR 41070, July 10, 2003]




