# § 766.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following definitions apply:


*Administrative law judge.* The person authorized to conduct hearings in administrative enforcement proceedings brought under the EAA or to hear appeals from the imposition of temporary denial orders. The term “judge” may be used for brevity when it is clear that the reference is to the administrative law judge.


*Assistant Secretary.* The Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement, Bureau of Industry and Security.


*Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS).* Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce (formerly the Bureau of Export Administration) and all of its component units, including, in particular for purposes of this part, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Office of Export Enforcement, and the Office of Exporter Services. 


*Final decision.* A decision or order assessing a civil penalty, denial of export privileges or other sanction, or otherwise disposing of or dismissing a case, which is not subject to further review under this part, but which is subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate Federal district court as authorized by law.


*Initial decision.* A decision of the administrative law judge in proceedings involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, which is subject to appellate review by the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security, but which becomes the final decision in the absence of such an appeal.


*Party.* BIS and any person named as a respondent under this part.


*Recommended decision.* A decision of the administrative law judge in proceedings involving violations other than those relating to part 760 of the EAR, which is subject to review by the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security, who issues a written order affirming, modifying or vacating the recommended decision.


*Respondent.* Any person named as the subject of a charging letter, proposed charging letter, temporary denial order, or other order proposed or issued under this part.


*Under Secretary.* The Under Secretary for Industry and Security, United States Department of Commerce.



---

[N] [61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 20631, Apr. 26, 2002; 70 FR 8250, Feb. 18, 2005]




