# ยง 161.11   Environmental review and consultation requirements.

In addition to the environmental review requirements of NEPA the Department has other statutory environmental review and consultation requirements. Departmental officials, in cooperation with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and the Office of the Legal Adviser shall, to the maximum extent possible, conduct environmental review and consultation for these additional requirements concurrently with and integrated with preparation of assessments, and environmental impact statements. The principal additional requirements affecting the Department of State's actions are outlined below. 


(a) Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.,* requires identification of and consultation on aspects of any Departmental action that may have effects in the United States on listed species or their habitat. As appropriate, written request for consultation, along with the draft environmental document, shall be conveyed by the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues to the Regional Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or the National Marine Fisheries Service, as appropriate, for the Region in the United States where the action will be carried out. 


(b) Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470(f), requires identification of National Register properties, eligible properties, or properties in the United States which may be eligible for the National Register within the area of the potential impact of a proposed Departmental action. Evaluation of the impact of the action on such properties shall be discussed in draft environmental impact statements and transmitted to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation for comments. 


(c) Executive Order 11988 (Floodplains Management) and Executive Order 11990 (Wetlands), requires identification of actions which will occur in or affect a floodplain or wetland (e.g., in areas along the boundary with Canada or Mexico). A comparative evaluation of such actions shall be discussed in draft environmental impact statements and transmitted to the U.S. Water Resources Council for comments. 


(d) Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 16 U.S.C. 661 *et seq.*

(e) Section 309 of the Clean Air Act of 1955, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7609.


(f) Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*

(g) Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1451 *et seq.*

(h) Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.*

(i) Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1501 *et seq.*

(j) Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1361 *et seq.*

