# § 1.529A-5   Reporting of the establishment of and contributions to an ABLE account.

(a) *In general.* A filer defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must, with respect to each ABLE account—


(1) File an annual information return, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, with the Internal Revenue Service; and


(2) Furnish an annual statement, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, to the designated beneficiary of the ABLE account.


(b) *Additional definitions.* In addition to the definitions in § 1.529A-1(b), the following definitions also apply for purposes of this section—


(1) *Filer* means the State or its agency or instrumentality that establishes and maintains the qualified ABLE program under which an ABLE account is established. The filing may be done by either an officer or employee of the State or its agency or instrumentality having control of the qualified ABLE program, or the officer's or employee's designee.


(2) *TIN* means taxpayer identification number as defined in section 7701(a)(41).


(c) *Requirement to file return*—(1) *Form of return.* For purposes of reporting the information described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the filer must file Form 5498-QA, “ABLE Account Contribution Information,” or any successor form, together with Form 1096, “Annual Summary and Transmittal of U.S. Information Returns.”


(2) *Information included on return.* With respect to each ABLE account, the filer must include on the return—


(i) The name, address, and TIN of the designated beneficiary of the ABLE account;


(ii) The name, address, and TIN of the filer;


(iii) Information regarding the establishment of the ABLE account, as required by the form and its instructions;


(iv) Information regarding the disability certification or other basis for eligibility of the designated beneficiary, as required by the form and its instructions. For further information regarding eligibility and disability certification, see § 1.529A-2(d) and (e), respectively;


(v) The total amount of any contributions made with respect to the ABLE account during the calendar year; such contributions do not include any contribution rejected and returned to the contributor before being deposited into or allocated to the ABLE account or any excess contributions, excess compensation contributions, or excess aggregate contributions returned as described in § 1.529A-2(g)(4);


(vi) The fair market value of the ABLE account as of the last day of the calendar year; and


(vii) Any other information required by the form, its instructions, or published guidance. See §§ 601.601(d) and 601.602 of this chapter.


(3) *Time and manner of filing return*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the information returns required under this paragraph must be filed on or before May 31 of the year following the calendar year with respect to which the return is being filed, in accordance with the forms and their instructions.


(ii) *Extensions of time.* See §§ 1.6081-1 and 1.6081-8 for rules relating to extensions of time to file information returns required in this section.


(iii) *Electronic filing.* See § 301.6011-2 of this chapter for rules relating to electronic filing. See also Instructions for Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA, Distributions From ABLE Accounts and ABLE Account Contribution Information.


(iv) *Substitute forms.* The filer may file the returns required under this paragraph (c) on an acceptable substitute form. See Publication 1179, “General Rules and Specifications for Substitute Forms 1096, 1098, 1099, 5498, and Certain Other Information Returns.”


(d) *Requirement to furnish statement*—(1) *In general.* The filer must furnish a statement to the designated beneficiary of the ABLE account for which it is required to file a Form 5498-QA (or any successor form). The statement must include—


(i) The information required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section;


(ii) A legend that identifies the statement as important tax information that is being furnished to the Internal Revenue Service; and


(iii) The name and address of the office or department of the filer that is the information contact for questions regarding the ABLE account to which the Form 5498-QA relates.


(2) *Time and manner of furnishing statement*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the filer must furnish the statement described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the designated beneficiary on or before March 15 of the year following the calendar year with respect to which the statement is being furnished. If mailed, the statement must be sent to the designated beneficiary's last known address. The statement may be furnished electronically, as provided in § 1.529A-7.


(ii) *Extensions of time.* The Internal Revenue Service may, at its discretion, grant an extension of time to furnish statements required in this section.


(3) *Copy of Form 5498-QA.* The filer may satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (d) by furnishing either a copy of Form 5498-QA (or successor form) or an acceptable substitute form. See Publication 1179, “General Rules and Specifications for Substitute Forms 1096, 1098, 1099, 5498, and Certain Other Information Returns.”


(e) *Request for TIN of designated beneficiary.* The filer must request the TIN of the designated beneficiary at the time the ABLE account is established if the filer does not already have a record of the designated beneficiary's correct TIN. The filer must clearly notify the designated beneficiary that the law requires the designated beneficiary to furnish a TIN so that it may be included on an information return to be filed by the filer. The designated beneficiary may provide his or her TIN in any manner including orally, in writing, or electronically. If the TIN is furnished in writing, no particular form is required. Form W-9, “Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification,” may be used, or the request may be incorporated into the forms related to the establishment of the ABLE account.


(f) *Penalties*—(1) *Failure to file return.* The section 6693 penalty may apply to the filer that fails to file information returns at the time and in the manner required by this section, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause. See section 6693 and § 301.6693-1 of this chapter.


(2) *Failure to furnish TIN.* The section 6723 penalty may apply to any designated beneficiary who fails to furnish his or her TIN to the filer. See section 6723, and § 301.6723-1 of this chapter, for rules relating to the penalty for failure to furnish a TIN.


(g) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to information returns required to be filed, and payee statements required to be furnished, after December 31, 2020. See § 1.529A-8 for the provision of transition relief.






