# ยง 393.132   Specific securement requirements for flattened or crushed vehicles.

(a) *Applicability.* The rules in this section apply to the transportation of vehicles such as automobiles, light trucks, and vans that have been flattened or crushed. 


(b) *Prohibition on the use of synthetic webbing.* The use of synthetic webbing to secure flattened or crushed vehicles is prohibited except that such webbing may be used to connect wire rope or chain to anchor points on the commercial motor vehicle. However, the webbing (regardless of whether edge protection is used) must not come into contact with the flattened or crushed cars.


(c) *Securement of flattened or crushed vehicles.* Flattened or crushed vehicles must be transported on vehicles which have: 


(1) Containment walls or comparable means on four sides which extend to the full height of the load and which block against movement of the cargo in the forward, rearward and lateral directions; or 


(2)(i) Containment walls or comparable means on three sides which extend to the full height of the load and which block against movement of the cargo in the direction for which there is a containment wall or comparable means, and 


(ii) A minimum of two tiedowns are required per vehicle stack; or 


(3)(i) Containment walls on two sides which extend to the full height of the load and which block against movement of the cargo in the forward and rearward directions, and 


(ii) A minimum of three tiedowns are required per vehicle stack; or 


(4) A minimum of four tiedowns per vehicle stack. 


(5) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4), the following rules must be satisfied: 


(i) Vehicles used to transport flattened or crushed vehicles must be equipped with a means to prevent liquids from leaking from the bottom of the vehicle, and loose parts from falling from the bottom and all four sides of the vehicle extending to the full height of the cargo.


(ii) The means used to contain loose parts may consist of structural walls, sides or sideboards, or suitable covering material, alone or in combinations. 


(iii) The use of synthetic material for containment of loose parts is permitted. 



---

[N] [67 FR 61225, Sept. 27, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 35834, June 22, 2006]




