# § 201.65   Commissions, discounts and other payments, credits, benefits and allowances.

(a) *General.* This section sets forth the rules which govern the eligibility of commissions, discounts and certain other payments, credits, benefits and allowances for USAID-financing. 


(b) *Commissions to sales agents.* Unless otherwise provided in the implementing document, a commission paid, or to be paid, to a bona fide agent of the supplier is eligible for financing under this part, if such agent either has made a direct and substantial contribution toward securing the purchase contract for the supplier or is engaged on a continuing basis in securing similar contracts for the supplier. Such commissions are eligible to the extent they comply with § 201.65(f). 


(c) *Commissions and other payments, credits, benefits or allowances to importers, purchasing agents and others.* Unless otherwise authorized by USAID, no commission or other payment, credit, benefit or allowance of any kind shall be paid, made, or given, or agreed to be paid, made or given, in connection with any sale subject to this part by the supplier or its agent: 


(1) To or for the benefit of the importer; 


(2) To or for the benefit of a purchasing agent or other agent or representative of an importer, even though such agent or representative may also have an agreement with a supplier to represent the supplier; or 


(3) To any third party in connection with a sale by the supplier to its dealer, distributor, or established agent in the cooperating country. 


(d) *Trade discounts.* To arrive at the net amount eligible for USAID-financing, all trade discounts, whether in the form of payments, credits, or allowances, to which the importer is entitled shall be deducted from the gross amount of the supplier's invoice submitted under § 201.52(a)(2)(i)(D). 


(e) *Commissions and other payments or benefits attributable to USAID-financing.* Every commission or other payment, credit, benefit, or allowance of any kind paid, made or given, or agreed to be paid, made or given, in connection with the sale of commodities financed under this part to any person described in § 201.65(c) (1), (2) or (3) shall be presumed conclusively to have been paid from USAID funds and shall thereby be subject to the requirements of this part 201. 


(f) *Maximum commission.* A commission shall not exceed the lesser of the amount which the supplier customarily pays in connection with similar transactions or the amount which is customary in the trade. 


(g) *Reporting.* All commissions and other payments, credits, benefits or allowances of any kind paid, made or given, or agreed to be paid, made or given, by the supplier in connection with USAID-financed sales of commodities and commodity-related services shall be fully reported on the Invoice-and-Contract Abstract of the Supplier's Certificate required under § 201.52(a)(6). Any such amounts not reported shall be ineligible for USAID-financing. 


(h) *Brokerage commission.* In connection with ocean freight services, USAID will finance a brokerage commission only if: 


(1) Such commission does not exceed 2
1/2 percent of the ocean freight charge (exclusive of deadfreight, demurrage and detention); 


(2) Such commission is payable to an individual resident in a country included in the authorized source code; a non-resident citizen of a country included in the authorized source code; or a corporation or partnership organized under the laws of a country included in the authorized source code; and 


(3) The names of all persons receiving such commissions appear on the face of the charter party. 


(i) *Address commissions.* An address commission to or for the benefit of a charterer shall be deemed a discount on the stated freight rate or freight charge which the supplier of transportation services shall deduct from the cost of transportation financed by USAID. If the supplier of the commodity is the charterer, it shall refund to USAID any address commission received by it. If the supplier of the commodity is not the charterer, the borrower/grantee shall be responsible for making a refund to USAID of any such commissions received by the charterer. 




