# § 2550.20   Definitions.

(a) *AAE.* Alternative Administrative Entity.


(b) *Administrative costs.* As used in this part, those costs incurred by a State in the establishing and operating a State entity; the specific administrative costs for which a Corporation administrative grant may be used as defined in the Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements to State and Local Governments.


(c) *Alternative Administrative Entity (AAE).* A State entity approved by the Corporation to perform the duties of a State Commission, including developing a three-year comprehensive national service plan, preparing applications to the Corporation for funding and approved national service positions, and administering service program grants; in general, an AAE must meet the same composition and other requirements as a State Commission, but may receive waivers from the Corporation to accommodate State laws that prohibit inquiring as to the political affiliation of members, to have more than 25 voting members (the maximum for a State Commission), and/or to select members in a manner other than selection by the chief executive officer of the State.


(d) *Approved National Service Position.* A national service program position for which the Corporation has approved the provision of a national service educational award as one of the benefits to be provided for successful completion of a term of service.


(e) *Corporation.* As used in this part, the Corporation for National and Community Service established pursuant to the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 12651).


(f) *Corporation representative.* Each of the individuals employed by the Corporation for National and Community Service to assist the States in carrying out national and community service activities; the Corporation representative must be included as a member of the State Commission or AAE.


(g) *Indian tribe.* (1) An Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including—


(i) Any Native village, as defined in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(c)), whether organized traditionally or pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the “Indian Reorganization Act”; 48 Stat. 984, chapter 576; 25 U.S.C. 461 *et seq.*); and


(ii) Any Regional Corporation or Village Corporation as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602 (g) or (j)), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States under Federal law to Indians because of their status as Indians; and


(2) Any tribal organization controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by an entity described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(h) *Older adult.* An individual 55 years of age or older.


(i) *Service-learning.* A method under which students or participants learn and develop through active participation in thoughtfully organized service that is conducted in and meets the needs of a community and that is coordinated with an elementary school, secondary school, institution of higher education, or community service program, and with the community; service-learning is integrated into and enhances the academic curriculum of the students, or the educational components of the community service program in which the participants are enrolled, and it provides time for the students or participants to reflect on the service experience.


(j) *Service learning programs.* The totality of the service learning programs receiving assistance from the Corporation under subtitle B of the Act, either directly or through a grant-making entity; this includes school-based, community-based, and higher education-based service-learning programs.


(k) *State.* As used in this part, the term State refers to each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 


(l) *State Commission.* A bipartisan or nonpartisan State entity, approved by the Corporation, consisting of 15-25 members (appointed by the chief executive officer of the State), that is responsible for developing a comprehensive national service plan, assembling applications for funding and approved national service positions, and administering national and community service programs in the State.


(m) *State Educational Agency.* The same meaning given to such term in section 1471(23) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(23)).


(n) *State entity.* A State Commission, AAE, or Transitional Entity that has been authorized by the Corporation to perform the duties of a State Commission.



---

[N] [58 FR 60981, Nov. 18, 1993, as amended at 67 FR 45362, July 9, 2002; 70 FR 39607, July 8, 2005]




