# § 1090.1115   PTD requirements for distillate and residual fuels.

(a) *General requirements.* On each occasion when any person transfers custody or title of any distillate or residual fuel, other than when fuel is sold or dispensed to the ultimate end user at a retail outlet or WPC facility, the transferor must provide the transferee PTDs that include the following information:


(1) The sulfur per-gallon standard that the transferor represents the fuel to meet under subpart D of this part (*e.g.,* 15 ppm sulfur for ULSD or 1,000 ppm sulfur for ECA marine fuel).


(2) An accurate and clear statement of the applicable designation(s) of the fuel under § 1090.1015 (*e.g.,* “ULSD”, “500 ppm LM diesel fuel”, or “ECA marine fuel”).


(3) If the fuel does not meet the sulfur standard in § 1090.305(b) for ULSD, the following statement: “Not for use in highway vehicles or engines or nonroad, locomotive, or marine engines.”


(b) *500 ppm LM diesel fuel language requirements.* For batches of 500 ppm LM diesel fuel, in addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, PTDs must include the following information:


(1) The following statement: “500 ppm sulfur (maximum) LM diesel fuel. For use only in accordance with a compliance plan under 40 CFR 1090.515(g). Not for use in highway vehicles or other nonroad vehicles and engines.”


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *ECA marine fuel language requirements.* For batches of ECA marine fuel, in addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, PTDs must include the following information:


(1) The following statement: “1,000 ppm sulfur (maximum) ECA marine fuel. For use in Category 3 marine vessels only. Not for use in Category 1 or Category 2 marine vessels.”


(2) A party may replace the required statement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section with the following statement for qualifying vessels under 40 CFR part 1043: “High sulfur fuel. For use only in ships as allowed by MARPOL Annex VI, Regulation 3 or Regulation 4.”


(3) Under 40 CFR 1043.80, a fuel supplier (*i.e.,* the person who transfers custody or title of marine fuel onto a vessel) must provide bunker delivery notes to vessel operators.


(d) *Distillate global marine fuel language requirements.* For batches of distillate global marine fuel, in addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, PTDs must include the following information:


(1) The following statement: “5,000 ppm sulfur (maximum) Distillate Global Marine Fuel. For use only in steamships or Category 3 marine vessels outside of an Emission Control Area (ECA), consistent with MARPOL Annex VI.”


(2) [Reserved]




