# § 89.5   Responsibilities.

(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (ASD(M&RA)) oversees the implementation of this part.


(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(M&RA), the DASD(MC&FP):


(1) Designates military representatives by position as liaisons to State councils, nominated by the Secretaries of the Military Departments by the procedures outlined in § 89.7 of this part.


(2) Designates the DoD ex-officio member serving as a liaison to MIC3, insofar as DoD is invited to do so by MIC3.


(3) Maintains a roster of designated liaisons to State councils in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.


(4) Monitors issues arising under the Compact:


(i) Affecting children of military families attending and transferring between member State schools; and


(ii) The implementation of § 89.8 of this part, affecting children of military families transferring between member state schools and DoDEA's schools (consisting of the Department of Defense Schools (DoDDS)—Europe, DoDDS—Pacific, and DDESS.


(c) Under the authority, direction, and control of ASD(M&RA), the Director, DoDEA:


(1) To the extent allowable by 10 U.S.C. 2164 and 20 U.S.C. 921-932, adjusts operating policies and procedures issued pursuant to DoD Directive 1342.20, “Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA)” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134220p.pdf*) to implement the provisions of the Compact described in § 89.8 of this part.


(2) Informs boards and councils, described in DoD Instruction 1342.15, “Educational Advisory Committees and Councils” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134215p.pdf*) and DoD Instruction 1342.25, “School Boards for Department of Defense Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS)” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134225p.pdf*), of the Compact provisions in § 89.8 of this part and the DoDEA administration of these provisions.


(3) Addresses disputes over provisions in § 89.8 of this part between member States and DoDEA. When differences cannot be resolved with a member State, works with MIC3 to resolve these disputes.


(4) Establishes the DoDEA Committee to review compliance with the provisions in § 89.8 of this part and to address issues raised by the Secretaries of the Military Departments concerning the implementation of these provisions.


(5) Ensures all personally identifiable information is collected, maintained, disseminated, and used in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.


(6) Ensures that DoDEA schools comply with § 89.8 and that DoDEA school-level officials inform DoDEA students transferring to schools in member States of the benefits extended by receiving States under the Compact.


(d) The Secretaries of the Military Departments:


(1) Nominate military representatives by position, in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 89.7 of this part, for designation as liaisons to State Councils by the DASD(MC&FP) when such DoD liaison is requested.


(2) Establish departmental policies and procedures to inform military communities of:


(i) The provisions of this part as it affects children of military families attending and transferring between member State schools; and


(ii) The provisions in § 89.8 of this part concerning students transferring between DoDEA and member State schools.


(3) Procedures to resolve issues or challenges raised by parents concerning the provisions of § 89.8 of this part.




