# § 1822.270   Technical, legal, and other services.

(a) *Appraisals.* The property will be appraised by an RD employee authorized to make real estate appraisals. The appraisal will consist of a narrative statement prepared and signed by the authorized employee describing in detail the items considered in arriving at the value of the property. Two values will be established by the appraiser: 


(1) The fair market value of the total property “as is”. 


(2) The aggregate fair market value of the building sites after development. 


(i) In determining the value of the property, the appraiser will consider the value and selling prices of similar building sites in the area. The selling prices of similar sites must be fully documented. 


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Title clearance and legal services.* For a loan to a public nonprofit organization, title clearance and legal services will be obtained in accordance with instructions from the OGC, observing the provisions of subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter to the extent feasible. For a loan to a private nonprofit organization, the provisions of subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter regarding title clearance and legal services will apply. The applicant will be encouraged to have the same approved closing agent, where practical, perform the title clearance work in connection with the purchase of the land and the sale of the individual sites. 


(c) *Contracts for legal services.* On projects requiring more legal services than are customarily required for title clearance alone, the applicant will be required to have a written contract when loan funds will be used for legal services. All such contracts will be subject to review and approval by the State director and therefore should be submitted to the State Director before execution by the applicant. Contracts will provide for the types of service to be performed and the amount of fees to be paid either in lump sum on the completion of all services or in installments as services are performed. 


(d) *Engineering services.* On projects requiring engineering services, a written contract will be required between the engineer and the borrower. All such contracts will be subject to review and approval by the State director and therefore should be submitted to the State Director before execution by the applicant. The form of contract must conform with standard professional practices and describe the types of services to be performed and fees to be paid. 



---

[N] [35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 51 FR 6733, Feb. 26, 1986; 56 FR 67471, Dec. 31, 1991; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]




