# ยง 28.64   Bond, Form 5110.67.

(a) *General.* Where the proprietor of a manufacturing bonded warehouse desires to withdraw distilled spirits and wines from time to time without payment of tax, as authorized in ยง 28.25, he shall file, as provided in ยง 28.51, a continuing bond on Form 5110.67. The bond shall be executed in a penal sum sufficient to cover the tax at the rates prescribed by law on the maximum quantity of distilled spirits and wines which may remain unaccounted for at any one time: *Provided,* That the maximum penal sum of such bond shall not exceed $200,000, but in no case shall the penal sum be less than $1,000. Distilled spirits and wines withdrawn for transfer to a manufacturing bonded warehouse shall remain unaccounted for until the evidence of deposit in such warehouse, as required by this part, has been filed. The proprietor shall, at the time of executing Form 5110.67, designate the premises from which the withdrawals are to be made, provided that, as to any one bond on Form 5110.67, such premises shall be located in the same internal revenue region.


(b) *Apportioning bonds.* If the bond, Form 5110.67 is in less than the maximum penal sum, the principal shall apportion the bond, in accordance with the requirements on the bond form. The principal may reapportion the bond coverage, if changing conditions make this necessary, by filing a consent of surety, Form 5000.18, in accordance with its instructions.



---

[N] [25 FR 5734, June 23, 1960. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-62, 44 FR 71721, Dec. 11, 1979; T.D. TTB-8, 69 FR 3832, Jan. 27, 2004; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1134, Jan. 4, 2017]




