# § 107.530   Restrictions on investments of idle funds by leveraged Licensees.

(a) *Applicability of this section.* This § 107.530 applies if you have outstanding Leverage or if you have applied for Leverage. 


(b) *Permitted investments of idle funds.* Funds not invested in Small Businesses must be maintained in: 


(1) Direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States, which mature within 15 months from the date of the investment; or 


(2) Repurchase agreements with federally insured institutions, with a maturity of seven days or less. The securities underlying the repurchase agreements must be direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States. The securities must be maintained in a custodial account at a federally insured institution; or 


(3) Mutual funds, securities, or other instruments that exclusively consist of, or represent pooled assets of, investments described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section; or


(4) Certificates of deposit with a maturity of one year or less, issued by a federally insured institution; or 


(5) A deposit account in a federally insured institution, subject to a withdrawal restriction of one year or less; or 


(6) A checking account in a federally insured institution; or 


(7) A reasonable petty cash fund. 


(c) *Deposit of funds in excess of the insured amount.* (1) You are permitted to deposit funds in a federally insured institution in excess of the institution's insured amount, but only if the institution is “well capitalized” in accordance with the definition set forth in regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as amended (12 CFR 325.103). 


(2) Exception: You may make a temporary deposit (not to exceed 30 days) in excess of the insured amount, in a transfer account established to facilitate the receipt and disbursement of funds or to hold funds necessary to honor Commitments issued. 


(d) *Deposit of funds in Associate institution.* A deposit in, or a repurchase agreement with, a federally insured institution that is your Associate is not considered a Financing of such Associate under § 107.730, provided the terms of such deposit or repurchase agreement are no less favorable than those available to the general public. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 20294, Apr. 4, 2012]




