# ยง 260.103   Definitions.

As used in this regulation, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Candidate.* One who meets the eligibility criteria set forth in ยง 260.107, and who has completed and submitted the necessary forms and documents in order to be considered for selection for a fellowship or scholarship.


(b) *Direct educational expenses.* Those expenses directly related to attending school including tuition, student fees, books, and expendable supplies but excluding travel expenses to and from the school.


(c) *Employing agency.* The agency for which the candidate works. This may be either a State or local highway/transportation agency or the FHWA.


(d) *Fellowship.* The grant presented to the recipient's school and administered by the school to assist the candidate financially during the period of graduate study.


(e) *Living stipend.* The portion of the fellowship or scholarship grant remaining after the direct educational expenses have been deducted.


(f) *Local highway/transportation agency.* The agency or metropolitan planning organization with the responsibility for initiating and carrying forward a highway program or public transportation program utilizing highways at the local level, usually the city or county level.


(g) *National Highway Institute (NHI).* The organization located within the FHWA responsible for the administration of the FHWA fellowship and scholarship grant programs.


(h) *Recipient.* The successful candidate receiving a fellowship or scholarship.


(i) *Scholarship.* The grant presented to the recipient's school and administered by the school to assist the candidate financially during the period of post-secondary study.


(j) *State highway/transportation agency.* The agency with the responsibility for initiating and carrying forward a highway program or public transportation program utilizing highways at the State level.




