# § 702.45   Submission of manufacturer requests for risk evaluations.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) One or more manufacturers of a chemical substance may request that EPA conduct a risk evaluation on a chemical substance.


(2) Such requests must comply with all the requirements, procedures, and criteria in this section.


(3) Subject to limited exceptions in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, it is the burden of the requesting manufacturer(s) to provide EPA with the information necessary to carry out the risk evaluation.


(4) In determining whether there is sufficient information to support a manufacturer-requested risk evaluation, EPA expects to apply the same standard as it would for EPA-initiated risk evaluations, including but not limited to the considerations and requirements in § 702.37.


(5) EPA may identify data needs at any time during the process described in this section, and, by submitting a request for risk evaluation under this section, the requesting manufacturer(s) agrees to provide, or develop and provide, EPA with information EPA deems necessary to carry out the risk evaluation, consistent with the provisions described in this subpart.


(6) EPA will not expedite or otherwise provide special treatment to a manufacturer-requested risk evaluation pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 2605(b)(4)(E)(ii).


(7) Once initiated in accordance with paragraph (e)(9) of this section, EPA will conduct manufacturer-requested risk evaluations following the procedures in §§ 702.37 through 702.43 and §§ 702.47 through 702.49 of this subpart.


(8) For purposes of this section, information that is “known to or reasonably ascertainable by” the requesting manufacturer(s) would include all information in the requesting manufacturer's possession or control, plus all information that a reasonable person similarly situated might be expected to possess, control, or know. Meeting this standard requires an exercise and documentation of due diligence that may vary depending on the circumstances and parties involved. At a minimum, due diligence requires:


(i) A thorough search and collection of publicly available information;


(ii) A reasonable inquiry within the requesting manufacturer's entire organization; and


(iii) A reasonably inquiry outside of the requesting manufacturer's organization, including inquiries to upstream suppliers; downstream users; and employees or other agents of the manufacturer, including persons involved in research and development, import or production, or marketing.


(9) In the event that a group of manufacturers of a chemical substance submit a request for risk evaluation under this section, the term “requesting manufacturer” in paragraphs (a), (c), and (i) of this section shall apply to all manufacturers in the group. EPA will otherwise coordinate with the primary contact named in the request for purposes of communication, payment of fees, and other actions as needed.


(b) *Method for submission.* All manufacturer-requested risk evaluations under this subpart must be submitted via the EPA Central Data Exchange (CDX) found at *https://cdx.epa.gov.*

(c) *Content of request.* Requests must include all of the following information:


(1) Name, mailing address, and contact information of the entity (or entities) submitting the request. If more than one manufacturer submits the request, all individual manufacturers must provide their contact information.


(2) The chemical identity of the chemical substance that is the subject of the request. At a minimum, this includes: all known names of the chemical substance, including common or trades names, CAS number, and molecular structure of the chemical substance.


(3) For requests pertaining to a category of chemical substances, an explanation of why the category is appropriate under 15 U.S.C. 2625(c). EPA will determine whether the category is appropriate for risk evaluation as part of reviewing the request in paragraph (e) of this section.


(4) A description of the circumstances under which the chemical substance is intended, known, or reasonably foreseen to be manufactured, processed, distributed in commerce, used, or disposed of, and all information known to or reasonably ascertainable by the requesting manufacturer that supports the identification of the circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(4).


(5) All information known to or reasonably ascertainable by the requesting manufacturer(s) on the health and environmental hazard(s) of the chemical substance, human and environmental exposure(s), and exposed population(s), including but not limited to:


(i) The chemical substance's exposure potential, including occupational, general population and consumer exposures, and facility release information;


(ii) The chemical substance's hazard potential, including all potential environmental and human health hazards;


(iii) The chemical substance's physical and chemical properties;


(iv) The chemical substance's fate and transport properties including persistence and bioaccumulation;


(v) Industrial and commercial locations where the chemical is used or stored;


(vi) Whether there is any storage of the chemical substance near significant sources of drinking water, including the storage facility location and the nearby drinking water source(s);


(vii) Consumer products containing the chemical;


(viii) The chemical substance's production volume or significant changes in production volume; and


(ix) Any other information relevant to the hazards, exposures and/or risks of the chemical substance.


(6) Where information described in paragraph (c)(4) or (5) of this section is unavailable, an explanation as to why, and the rationale for why, in the requester's view, the provided information is nonetheless sufficient to allow EPA to complete a risk evaluation on the chemical substance.


(7) Copies of all information referenced in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, or citations if the information is readily available from public sources.


(8) A signed certification from the requesting manufacturer(s) that all information contained in the request is accurate and complete, as follows:


(9) Where appropriate, information that will inform EPA's determination as to whether restrictions imposed by one or more States have the potential to have a significant impact on interstate commerce or health or the environment, and that as a consequence the request is entitled to preference pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 2605(b)(4)(E)(iii).


(d) *Confidential business information.* Persons submitting a request under this subpart are subject to EPA confidentiality regulations at 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, and 40 CFR part 703.


(e) *EPA process for reviewing requests.* (1) *Public notification of receipt of request.* Within 15 days of receipt of a manufacturer-requested risk evaluation, EPA will notify the public that such request has been received.


(2) *Initial review for completeness.* EPA will determine whether the request appears to meet the requirements specified in this section (*i.e.,* complete), or whether the request appears to not have met the requirements specified in this section (*i.e.,* incomplete). EPA will notify the requesting manufacturer of the outcome of this initial review. For requests initially determined to be incomplete, EPA will cease review, pending actions taken by the requesting manufacturer pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. For requests initially determined to be complete, EPA will proceed to the public notice and comment process described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(3) *Public notice and comment.* No later than 90 days after initially determining a request to be complete pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, EPA will submit for publication the receipt of the request in the _Federal Register,_ open a docket for that request and provide no less than a 60-day public comment period. The docket will contain the CBI sanitized copies of the request and all supporting information. The notice will encourage the public to submit comments and information relevant to the manufacturer-requested risk evaluation, including, but not limited to, identifying information not provided in the request, information the commenter believes necessary to conduct a risk evaluation, and any other information relevant to the conditions of use.


(4) *Secondary review for sufficiency.* Within 90 days following the end of the comment period in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, EPA will further consider whether public comments highlight deficiencies in the request not identified during EPA's initial review, and/or that the available information is not sufficient to support a reasoned evaluation. EPA will notify the requesting manufacturer of the outcome of this review. For requests determined to not be supported by sufficient information, EPA will cease review, pending actions taken pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. For requests determined to be supported by sufficient information, EPA will proceed with request review process in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section.


(5) *Grant.* Where EPA determines a request to be complete and sufficiently supported in accordance with paragraphs (e)(2) and (4) of this section, and subject to the percentage limitations in TSCA section 6(b)(4)(E)(i)(II), EPA will grant the request. A grant does not mean that EPA has all information necessary to complete the risk evaluation.


(6) *Publication of draft conditions of use and request for information.* EPA will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ that identifies draft conditions of use, requests relevant information from the public, and provides no less than a 60-day public comment period. Within 90 days following the close of the public comment period in this paragraph, EPA will determine whether further information is needed to carry out the risk evaluation and notify the requesting manufacturer of its determination, pursuant to paragraph (e)(7) of this section. If EPA determines at this time that no further information is necessary, EPA will initiate the risk evaluation, pursuant to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(7) *Identification of information needs.* Where additional information needs are identified, EPA will notify the requesting manufacturer and set a reasonable amount of time, as determined by EPA, for response. In response to EPA's notice, and subject to the limitations in paragraph (g) of this section, the requesting manufacturer may:


(i) *Provide the necessary information.* EPA will set a reasonable amount of time, as determined by EPA, for the requesting manufacturer to produce or develop and produce the information. Upon receipt of the new information, EPA will review for sufficiency and make publicly available to the extent possible, including CBI-sanitized copies of that information; or


(ii) *Withdraw the risk evaluation request.* Fees to be collected or refunded shall be determined pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section and 40 CFR 700.45; or


(iii) *Request that EPA obtain the information using authorities under TSCA sections 4, 8 or 11.* The requesting manufacturer must provide a rationale as to why the information is not reasonably ascertainable to them. EPA will review and provide notice of its determination to the requesting manufacturer. Upon receipt of the information, EPA will review the additional information for sufficiency and provide additional public notice.


(8) *Unfulfilled information needs.* In circumstances where there have been additional data needs identified pursuant to paragraph (e)(7) of this section that are not fulfilled, because the requesting manufacturer is unable or unwilling to fulfill those needs in a timely manner, the requesting manufacture has produced information that is insufficient as determined by EPA, or EPA determines that a request to use TSCA authorities under section 4, 8 or 11 is not warranted, EPA may deem the request to be constructively withdrawn under paragraph (e)(7)(ii) of this section.


(9) *Initiation of the risk evaluation.* Within 90 days of the end of the comment period provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, or within 90 days of EPA determining that information identified and received pursuant to paragraph (e)(7) of this section is sufficient, EPA will initiate the requested risk evaluation and follow all requirements in this subpart, including but not limited to §§ 702.37 through 702.43 and §§ 702.47 through 702.49 of this subpart, and notify the requesting manufacturer and the public. Initiation of the risk evaluation does not limit or prohibit the Agency from identifying additional data needs during the risk evaluation process.


(f) *Incomplete or insufficient request.* Where EPA has determined that a request is incomplete or insufficient pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) or (4) of this section, the requesting manufacturer may supplement and resubmit the request. EPA will follow the process described in paragraph (e) of this section as it would for a new request.


(g) *Withdrawal of request.* The requesting manufacturer may withdraw a request at any time prior to EPA's grant of such request pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) of this section, or in accordance with paragraph (e)(7) of this section and subject to payment of applicable fees. The requesting manufacturer may not withdraw a request once EPA has initiated the risk evaluation. EPA may deem a request constructively withdrawn in the event of unfulfilled information needs pursuant to paragraph (e)(8) of this section or non-payment of fees as required in 40 CFR 700.45. EPA will notify the requesting manufacturer and the public of the withdrawn request.


(h) *Data needs identified post-initiation.* Where EPA identifies additional data needs after the risk evaluation has been initiated, the requesting manufacturer may remedy the deficiency pursuant to paragraph (e)(7)(i) or (iii) of this section.


(i) *Supplementation of original request.* At any time prior to the end of the comment period described in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, the requesting manufacturer(s) may supplement the original request with any new information that becomes available to the requesting manufacturer(s). At any point prior to the completion of a manufacturer-requested risk evaluation pursuant to this section, the requesting manufacturer(s) must supplement the original request with any information that meets the criteria in 15 U.S.C. 2607(e) and this section, or with any other reasonably ascertainable information that has the potential to change EPA's risk evaluation. Such information must be submitted consistent with 15 U.S.C. 2607(e) if the information is subject to that section or otherwise within 30 days of when the requesting manufacturer(s) obtain the information.


(j) *Limitations on manufacturer-requested risk evaluations.* (1) *In general.* EPA will initiate a risk evaluation for all requests from manufacturers for non-TSCA Work Plan Chemicals that meet the criteria in this subpart, until EPA determines that the number of manufacturer-requested chemical substances undergoing risk evaluation is equal to 25% of the High-Priority Substances identified in subpart A as undergoing risk evaluation. Once that level has been reached, EPA will initiate at least one new manufacturer-requested risk evaluation for each manufacturer-requested risk evaluation completed so long as there are sufficient requests that meet the criteria of this subpart, as needed to ensure that the number of manufacturer-requested risk evaluations is equal to at least 25% of the High-Priority substances risk evaluations and not more than 50%.


(2) *Preferences.* In conformance with § 702.35(c), in evaluating requests for TSCA Work Plan Chemicals and requests for non-TSCA Work Plan chemicals, EPA will give preference to requests for risk evaluations on chemical substances:


(i) First, for which EPA determines that restrictions imposed by one or more States have the potential to have a significant impact on interstate commerce, health or the environment; and then


(ii) Second, based on the order in which the requests are received.


(k) *Fees.* Manufacturers must pay fees to support risk evaluations as specified under 15 U.S.C. 2605(b)(4)(E)(ii), and in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 2625(b) and 40 CFR 700.45. In the event that a request for a risk evaluation is withdrawn by the requesting manufacturer pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, the total fee amount due will be either, in accordance with 40 CFR 700.45(c)(2)(x) or (xi) (as adjusted by 40 CFR 700.45(d) when applicable), 50% or 100% of the actual costs expended in carrying out the risk evaluation as of the date of receipt of the withdrawal notice. The payment amount will be determined by EPA, and invoice or refund issued to the requesting manufacturer as appropriate.






