# ยง 225.5   Registration, reports, and inspections.

(a) *Registration of bank holding companies.* Each company shall register within 180 days after becoming a bank holding company by furnishing information in the manner and form prescribed by the Board. A company that receives the Board's prior approval under subpart B of this part to become a bank holding company may complete this registration requirement through submission of its first annual report to the Board as required by paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Reports of bank holding companies.* Each bank holding company shall furnish, in the manner and form prescribed by the Board, an annual report of the company's operations for the fiscal year in which it becomes a bank holding company, and for each fiscal year during which it remains a bank holding company. Additional information and reports shall be furnished as the Board may require.


(c) *Examinations and inspections.* The Board may examine or inspect any bank holding company and each of its subsidiaries and prepare a report of their operations and activities. With respect to a foreign banking organization, the Board may also examine any branch or agency of a foreign bank in any state of the United States and may examine or inspect each of the organization's subsidiaries in the United States and prepare reports of their operations and activities. The Board shall rely, as far as possible, on the reports of examination made by the primary federal or state supervisor of the subsidiary bank of the bank holding company or of the branch or agency of the foreign bank.




