# § 385.24   Project Management Plans.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, develop a Project Management Plan prior to initiating activities on a project.


(2) The Project Management Plan shall define the activities, and where appropriate, the subordinate tasks, as well as the assignment of responsibility for completing products and activities such as Project Implementation Reports, Pilot Project Design Reports, plans and specifications, real estate acquisition, construction contracts and construction, Comprehensive Plan Modification Reports, and other activities necessary to support implementation of the Plan.


(3) The Project Management Plan shall include a quality control plan, as described in § 385.21.


(4) As appropriate, the Project Management Plan shall include activities to be conducted to meet the requirements of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, as described in § 385.26(e).


(5) The Project Management Plan shall provide schedule and funding information for the project.


(6) In accordance with § 385.18, Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on the Project Management Plan.


(b) *Revisions to Project Management Plans.* The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor may, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, revise the Project Management Plan whenever necessary, including after completion of the Project Implementation Report, or Plans and Specifications. In accordance with § 385.18, the Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on revisions to the Project Management Plan.




