# § 150.140   Fruit jelly.

(a) The jellies for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are the jelled foods each of which is made from a mixture of one or a permitted combination of the fruit juice ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section, which meets the specifications in paragraph (d) of this section and which is labeled in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such mixture is concentrated with or without heat. The volatile flavoring materials or essence from such mixture may be captured during concentration, separately concentrated, and added back to any such mixture, together with any concentrated essence accompanying any optional fruit ingredient.


(b)(1) Each of the fruit juice ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is the filtered or strained liquid extracted with or without the application of heat and with or without the addition of water, from one of the following mature, properly prepared fruits which are fresh, frozen and/or canned:


(2) The permitted combinations are of two, three, four, or five of the fruit juice ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the weight of each is not less than one-fifth of the weight of the combination. Each such fruit juice ingredient in any such combination is an optional ingredient.


(c) The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:


(1) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.


(2) Spice.


(3) Acidifying agents.


(4) Pectin, in a quantity which reasonably compensates for deficiency, if any, of the natural pectin content of the fruit juice ingredient.


(5) Buffering agents.


(6) Preservatives.


(7) Antifoaming agents except those derived from animal fats.


(8) Mint flavoring and artificial green coloring, in case the fruit juice ingredient or combination of fruit juice ingredients is extracted from apple, crabapple, pineapple, or two or all of such fruits.


(9) Cinnamon flavoring, other than artificial flavoring, and artificial red coloring in case the fruit juice ingredient or combination of fruit juice ingredients is extracted from apple or crabapple or both such fruits.


(d) For the purposes of this section:


(1) The mixture referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall contain not less than 45 parts by weight of the fruit juice ingredients as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section to each 55 parts by weight of saccharine ingredient as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.


(2) Any requirement with respect to the weight of any fruit juice ingredient, whether prepared from concentrated, unconcentrated, or diluted fruit juice means the weight determined by the following method: (i) Determine the percent of soluble solids in such fruit juice ingredient by the method for soluble solids referred to in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; (ii) multiply the percent so found by the weight of such fruit juice ingredient; (iii) divide the result by 100; (iv) subtract from the quotient the weight of any added saccharine ingredient solids or other added solids; and (v) multiply the remainder by the factor for such fruit juice ingredient prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The result is the weight of the fruit juice ingredient.


(3) The soluble-solids content of the finished jelly is not less than 65 percent, as determined by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), section 31.011, under “Solids by Means of Refractometer—Official Final Action,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(4) The weight of any optional saccharine ingredient means the weight of the solids of such ingredient.


(e)(1) The name of each jelly for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is as follows:


(i) In case the jelly is made with a single fruit juice ingredient, the name is “Jelly”, preceded or followed by the name or synonym whereby the fruit from which such fruit juice ingredient was extracted is designated in paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) In case the jelly is made with a combination of two, three, four, or five fruit juice ingredients, the name is “Jelly”, preceded or followed by the words “Mixed fruit” or by the names or synonyms whereby the fruits from which the fruit juice ingredients were extracted are designated in paragraph (b) of this section, in the order of predominance, if any, of the weights of any such fruit juice ingredients in the combination.


(2) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:


(i) The name(s) of the fruit or fruits used may be declared without specifying the particular form of the fruit or fruits used.


(ii) When the optional ingredients listed in paragraphs (c) (3), (4), and (5) of this section are declared on the label, the declaration may be followed by the statement “Used as needed” on all jellies to which they are customarily, but not always, added to compensate for natural variations in the fruit juice ingredients used.



---

[N] [42 FR 14445, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11831, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10101, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24895, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2882, Jan. 6, 1993; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




