# § 1207.102   Waiver of prohibition in 18 U.S.C. 208.

(a) *Prohibition.* Employees are prohibited by criminal statute, 18 U.S.C. 208(a), from participating personally and substantially in an official capacity in any particular matter in which, to their knowledge, they, or any person whose interests are imputed to them under the statute, have a financial interest, if the particular matter will have a direct and predictable effect on that interest. 


(b) *Specific waiver available.* A NASA employee may request a waiver of this prohibition. NASA may grant a specific waiver of the prohibition only if the Agency determines that the employee's financial interest is not so substantial as to be deemed likely to affect the integrity of the employee's services. The waiver must be obtained before the employee participates in the matter. 


(c) *Officials authorized to make waiver determinations.* (1) For the employees listed below, waivers must be approved by the Administrator or Deputy Administrator. No further delegation is authorized. 


(i) Employees who are required by 5 CFR 2634.202 to file Public Financial Disclosure Reports; 


(ii) Employees who are appointed under authority of section 203(c)(2) (“NASA Excepted Positions”) or section 203(c)(10) (“Alien Scientists”) of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2473(c)(2) and 2473(c)(10)); 


(iii) Astronauts and astronaut candidates; 


(iv) Chief Counsel; and 


(v) Procurement Officers. 


(2) For all other Headquarters employees, the Associate Administrator for Headquarters Operations may approve waivers of 18 U.S.C. 208. This authority may not be redelegated. 


(3) For all other Center employees, the Center Director or Deputy Center Director may approve waivers of 18 U.S.C. 208. This authority may not be redelegated. 


(d) *Procedures for specific waiver.* The employee's request for a waiver must be in writing. The request must describe the particular matter involved, the relevant duties of the employee, and the exact nature and amount of the disqualifying financial interest. 


(1) *Headquarters employees.* (i) Those Headquarters employees described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must submit their requests to the Official-in-Charge of the Headquarters office in which they are employed and to the General Counsel for concurrence. The Official-in-Charge will then submit the request to the Administrator with recommendations on the proposed waiver. 


(ii) Other Headquarters employees must submit their requests to the Associate General Counsel (General) for concurrence, and to the Associate Administrator for Headquarters Operations for approval. 


(2) *Center employees.* (i) Those Center employees described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must submit their requests to the Center Chief Counsel for concurrence and then to the Director of the Center where they are employed. The Center Director will provide the request, with recommendations, to the appropriate Enterprise Associate Administrator and to the General Counsel for review and submission to the Administrator. 


(ii) Other Center employees must submit their requests to the Center Chief Counsel for concurrence, and then to their Center Director or Deputy Center Director for approval. 


(3) Copies of approved waivers must be forwarded to the Associate Administrator for Human Resources and Education, the General Counsel, and the Office of Government Ethics. 


(e) *Cross-references.* For regulations concerning general waiver guidance and exemptions under 18 U.S.C. 208, see 5 CFR part 2640.



---

[N] [66 FR 59137, Nov. 27, 2001]




