# § 141.704   Analytical methods.

(a) *Cryptosporidium.* Systems must analyze for *Cryptosporidium* using *Method 1623: Cryptosporidium and Giardia in Water by Filtration/IMS/FA,* 2005, United States Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-815-R-05-002 or *Method 1622: Cryptosporidium in Water by Filtration/IMS/FA,* 2005, United States Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-815-R-05-001, which are incorporated by reference, or alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of these methods online from *http://www.epa.gov/safewater/disinfection/lt2* or from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water, 1201 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460 (*Telephone:* 800-426-4791). You may inspect a copy at the Water Docket in the EPA Docket Center, 1301 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC (*Telephone:* 202-566-2426) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Systems must analyze at least a 10 L sample or a packed pellet volume of at least 2 mL as generated by the methods listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Systems unable to process a 10 L sample must analyze as much sample volume as can be filtered by two filters approved by EPA for the methods listed in paragraph (a) of this section, up to a packed pellet volume of at least 2 mL.


(2)(i) Matrix spike (MS) samples, as required by the methods in paragraph (a) of this section, must be spiked and filtered by a laboratory approved for *Cryptosporidium* analysis under § 141.705.


(ii) If the volume of the MS sample is greater than 10 L, the system may filter all but 10 L of the MS sample in the field, and ship the filtered sample and the remaining 10 L of source water to the laboratory. In this case, the laboratory must spike the remaining 10 L of water and filter it through the filter used to collect the balance of the sample in the field.


(3) Flow cytometer-counted spiking suspensions must be used for MS samples and ongoing precision and recovery (OPR) samples.


(b) *E. coli.* System must use methods for enumeration of E. coli in source water approved in § 136.3(a) of this chapter or alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part.


(1) The time from sample collection to initiation of analysis may not exceed 30 hours unless the system meets the condition of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) The State may approve on a case-by-case basis the holding of an *E. coli* sample for up to 48 hours between sample collection and initiation of analysis if the State determines that analyzing an *E. coli* sample within 30 hours is not feasible. *E. coli* samples held between 30 to 48 hours must be analyzed by the Colilert reagent version of Standard Method 9223B as listed in § 136.3(a) of this title.


(3) Systems must maintain samples between 0 °C and 10 °C during storage and transit to the laboratory.


(c) *Turbidity.* Systems must use methods for turbidity measurement approved in § 141.74(a)(1).



---

[N] [71 FR 769, Jan. 5, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 30959, June 29, 2009]




