# § 30.1   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


(a) *Foreign futures* means any contract for the purchase or sale of any commodity for future delivery made, or to be made, on or subject to the rules of any foreign board of trade.


(b) *Foreign option* means any transaction or agreement which is or is held out to be of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, an “option”, “privilege”, “indemnity”, “bid”, “offer”, “put”, “call”, “advance guaranty” or “decline guaranty”, made or to be made on or subject to the rules of any foreign board of trade.


(c) *Foreign futures or foreign options customer* means any person located in the United States, its territories or possessions who trades in foreign futures or foreign options: *Provided,* That an owner or holder of a proprietary account as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter shall not be deemed to be a foreign futures or foreign options customer within the meaning of §§ 30.6 and 30.7 of this part.


(d) *Foreign futures and options customer omnibus account* is defined as an account in which the transactions of one or more foreign futures and foreign options customers are combined and carried in the name of the originating futures commission merchant rather than in the name of each individual foreign futures or foreign options customer. 


(e) *Foreign futures and options broker* (FFOB) is defined as a non-U.S. person that is a member of a foreign board of trade, as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter, licensed, authorized or otherwise subject to regulation in the jurisdiction in which the foreign board of trade is located; or a foreign affiliate of a U.S. futures commission merchant, licensed, authorized or otherwise subject to regulation in the jurisdiction in which the affiliate is located.


(f) *30.7 customer* means any foreign futures or foreign options customer as defined in paragraph (c) of this section as well as any foreign-domiciled person who trades in foreign futures or foreign options through a futures commission merchant; *Provided, however,* that an owner or holder of a proprietary account as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter shall not be deemed to be a 30.7 customer.


(g) *30.7 account* means any account maintained by a futures commission merchant for or on behalf of 30.7 customers to hold money, securities, or other property to margin, guarantee, or secure foreign futures or foreign option positions.


(h) *30.7 customer funds* means any money, securities, or other property received by a futures commission merchant from, for, or on behalf of 30.7 customers to margin, guarantee, or secure foreign futures or foreign option positions, or money, securities, or other property accruing to 30.7 customers as a result of foreign futures and foreign option positions.



---

[N] [52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 47280, Aug. 2, 2000; 78 FR 68648, Nov. 14, 2013; 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018]




