# ยง 442.12   Provider agreement: General requirements.

(a) *Certification and recertification.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a Medicaid agency may not execute a provider agreement with a facility for nursing facility services nor make Medicaid payments to a facility for those services unless the Secretary or the State survey agency has certified the facility under this part to provide those services. (See ยง 442.101 for certification by the Secretary or by the State survey agency).


(b) *Exception.* The certification requirement of paragraph (a) of this section does not apply with respect to religious nonmedical institutions as defined in ยง 440.170(b) of this chapter.


(c) *Conformance with certification condition.* An agreement must be in accordance with the certification provisions set by the Secretary or the survey agency under subpart C of this part for ICFs/IID or subpart E of part 488 of this chapter for NFs. 


(d) *Denial for good cause.* (1) If the Medicaid agency has adequate documentation showing good cause, it may refuse to execute an agreement, or may cancel an agreement, with a certified facility.


(2) A provider agreement is not a valid agreement for purposes of this part even though certified by the State survey agency, if the facility fails to meet the civil rights requirements set forth in 45 CFR parts 80, 84, and 90.



---

[N] [45 FR 22936, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 48865, Sept. 26, 1991; 59 FR 56235, Nov. 10, 1994; 64 FR 67052, Nov. 30, 1999]




