# § 1051.605   What provisions apply to engines already certified under the motor vehicle program or the Large Spark-ignition program?

(a) *General provisions.* If you are an engine manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce into commerce new recreational vehicles, and engines for recreational vehicles, if the engines are already certified to the requirements that apply to spark-ignition engines under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 or 40 CFR part 1048 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1051 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1051. See § 1051.610 for similar provisions that apply to vehicles that are already certified to the vehicle-based standards for motor vehicles.


(b) *Vehicle-manufacturer provisions.* If you are not an engine manufacturer, you may install an engine certified for the appropriate model year under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 in a recreational vehicle as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the non-recreational engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for installation in a recreational vehicle, we will consider you a manufacturer of recreational vehicles. Such engine modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.


(c) *Liability.* Engines for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 or 40 CFR part 1048. This paragraph (c) applies to engine manufacturers, vehicle manufacturers who use such an engine, and all other persons as if the engine were used in its originally intended application. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new engines and vehicles; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1051 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under this part 1051 or under 40 CFR part 85 or 1068.505.


(d) *Specific requirements.* If you are an engine or vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new engine or vehicle, the vehicle using the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:


(1) Your engine must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.


(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:


(i) Change any fuel system or evaporative system parameters from the certified configuration (this does not apply to refueling controls).


(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.


(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.


(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in recreational vehicles. This includes engines used in any application, without regard to which company manufactures the vehicle or equipment. Show this as follows:


(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.


(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.


(4) You must ensure that the engine has the emission control information label we require under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.


(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the vehicle. In the supplemental label, do the following:


(i) Include the heading: “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.


(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.


(iii) State: “THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR A RECREATIONAL USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.”.


(iv) State the date you finished installation (month and year), if applicable.


(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible after the engine is installed in the vehicle or, if the vehicle obscures the engine's emission control information label, the make sure the vehicle manufacturer attaches duplicate labels, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.


(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:


(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) List the engine or vehicle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(iii) State: “We produce each listed [engine or vehicle] model for recreational application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1051.605.”.


(e) *Failure to comply.* If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1051 and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1051. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).


(f) *Data submission.* We may require you to send us emission test data on any applicable nonroad duty cycles.


(g) *Participation in averaging, banking and trading.* Engines or vehicles adapted for recreational use under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1051. These engines or vehicles may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These engines or vehicles must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 86 if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an applicable standard.



---

[N] [70 FR 40501, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59254, Oct. 8, 2008]




