# ยง 35.6340   Disposal of CERCLA-funded property.

(a) *Equipment.* For equipment that is no longer needed, or at the end of the project period, whichever is earlier, the recipient must:


(1) Analyze two alternatives: The cost of leaving the equipment in place, and the cost of removing the equipment and disposing of it in another manner.


(2) Document the analysis of the two alternatives in the inventory report. *See* ยง 35.6660 regarding requirements for the inventory report.


(i) If it is most cost-effective to remove the equipment and dispose of it in another manner:


(A) If the equipment has a residual fair market value of $5,000 or more, the recipient must request disposition instructions from EPA in the inventory report. See ยง 35.6345 for equipment disposal options.


(B) If the equipment has a residual fair market value of less than $5,000, the recipient may retain the equipment for the recipient's use on another CERCLA site. If, however, there is any remaining residual value at the time of final disposition, the recipient must reimburse the Hazardous Substance Superfund for EPA's vested interest in the current fair market value of the equipment at the time of disposition.


(ii) If it is most cost-effective to leave the equipment in place, recommend in the inventory report that the equipment be left in place.


(3) Submit the inventory report to EPA, even if EPA has stopped supporting the project.


(b) *Supplies.* (1) If supplies have an aggregate fair market value of $5,000 or more at the end of the project period, the recipient must take one of the following actions at the direction of EPA:


(i) Use the supplies on another CERCLA project and reimburse the original project for the fair market value of the supplies;


(ii) If both the recipient and EPA concur, keep the supplies and reimburse the Hazardous Substance Superfund for EPA's interest in the current fair market value of the supplies; or


(iii) Sell the supplies and reimburse the Hazardous Substance Superfund for EPA's interest in the current fair market value of the supplies, less any reasonable selling expenses.


(2) If the supplies remaining at the end of the project period have an aggregate fair market value of less than $5,000, the recipient may keep the supplies to use on another CERCLA project. If the recipient cannot use the supplies on another CERCLA project, then the recipient may keep or sell the supplies without reimbursing the Hazardous Substance Superfund.




