# § 622.479   Area and seasonal closures.

(a) *Closures applicable to specific areas*—(1) *Mutton snapper spawning aggregation area.* The mutton snapper spawning aggregation area is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a).


(i) From March 1 through June 30, each year, fishing is prohibited in those parts of the mutton snapper spawning aggregation area that are in the EEZ around St. Croix.


(ii) Fishing with pots, traps, bottom longlines, gillnets or trammel nets is prohibited year-round in those parts of the mutton snapper spawning aggregation area that are in the EEZ around St. Croix.


(2) *Red hind spawning aggregation area east of St. Croix.* The red hind spawning aggregation area east of St. Croix is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 2 to this paragraph (a)(2).


(i) From December 1 through the last day of February, each year, fishing is prohibited in the red hind spawning aggregation area east of St. Croix.


(ii) Fishing with pots, traps, bottom longlines, gillnets or trammel nets is prohibited year-round in the red hind spawning aggregation area east of St. Croix.


(b) *Seasonal closures applicable to specific species*—(1) *Black, red, tiger, and yellowfin grouper closure.* From February 1 through April 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess black, red, tiger, or yellowfin grouper in or from the EEZ around St. Croix. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such grouper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(2) *Black, blackfin, silk, and vermilion snapper closure.* From October 1 through December 31, each year, no person may fish for or possess black, blackfin, silk, or vermilion snapper in or from the EEZ around St. Croix. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such snapper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(3) *Lane and mutton snapper closure.* From April 1 through June 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess lane or mutton snapper in or from the EEZ around St. Croix. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such snapper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(4) *Queen conch.* No person may fish for or possess a queen conch in or from the EEZ around St. Croix, except from November 1 through May 31 in the area east of 64°34′ W longitude, which includes Lang Bank.






