# § 10.412   Importer obligations.

(a) *General.* An importer who makes a declaration under § 10.410(a) of this subpart is responsible for the truthfulness of the declaration and of all the information and data contained in the certification or other information submitted to CBP under § 10.411(a) of this subpart, for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.


(b) *Compliance.* In order to make a claim for preferential treatment under § 10.410 of this subpart, the importer:


(1) Must have records that explain how the importer came to the conclusion that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment. Those records must include documents that support a claim that the article in question qualifies for preferential tariff treatment because it meets the applicable rules of origin set forth in General Note 26, HTSUS, and in this subpart. Those records may include a properly completed certification or other information as set forth in § 10.411 of this subpart; and


(2) May be required to demonstrate that the conditions set forth in § 10.463 of this subpart were met if the imported article was shipped through an intermediate country.


(c) *Information provided by exporter or producer.* The fact that the importer has issued a certification based on information provided by the exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. A U.S. importer who voluntarily makes a corrected declaration will not be subject to penalties for having made an incorrect declaration (*see* § 10.481 of this subpart).



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76132, Dec. 20, 2006]




