# § 123.51   Commercial samples transported by automobile through Canada between ports in the United States.

(a) *General provisions.* A commercial traveler arriving at a U.S. frontier port desiring to transport his commercial samples by automobile through Canada to another place in the United States without displaying the samples in Canada may request a U.S. Customs officer at the port of departure to cord and seal the outer containers of the samples if they can be effectively corded and sealed.


(b) *List of samples.* The traveler shall furnish the U.S. Customs officer at the port of exit a list, in duplicate, of all the articles in the containers, with their approximate values, in substantially the following form:


(c) *Checking, cording, and sealing by U.S. Customs officers.* The Customs officer shall check the list with the articles and satisfy himself that the values shown are approximately correct. The Customs officer will cord and seal the containers with yellow in-transit seals. The traveler may be required to assist the Customs officer in the cording and sealing. The original of the list, signed by the Customs officer over his title and showing that the articles on the list have been checked by the officer against those in the containers shall be returned to the traveler for submission by him to Canadian customs upon his arrival in Canada.


(d) *In-transit manifest.* The traveler shall execute and file Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C, in the original only, at the U.S. port of departure, as an in-transit manifest covering the movement of the samples to the U.S. port through which the traveler will return. Descriptions, quantities, and values may be shown thereon by noting “Commercial Samples” and the number of corded and sealed containers. The manifest shall be returned to the traveler to accompany the samples after being signed and dated by the Customs officer.


(e) *Presentation of in-transit manifest at U.S. port of reentry.* Upon return to the United States, the traveler shall present Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C and the corded and sealed samples to the U.S. Customs officer at the port where the samples are returned to this country. The Customs officer shall verify that there has been no irregularity.



---

[N] [T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982]




