# ยง 679.119   Recreational salmon fisheries.

(a) *Daily bag limits and possession limits.* For each person recreational fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area, the following daily bag and possession limits apply:


(1) *Chinook salmon.* From April 1 to August 31, the daily bag limit is one Chinook salmon of any size and the possession limit is one daily bag limit (one Chinook salmon). From September 1 to March 31, the daily bag limit is two Chinook salmon of any size and the possession limit is one daily bag limit (two Chinook salmon).


(2) *Coho salmon, sockeye salmon, pink salmon, and chum salmon.* For coho salmon, sockeye salmon, pink salmon, and chum salmon, the daily bag limit is a total of six fish combined, of any size, of which a maximum of three may be coho salmon. The possession limit for coho salmon, sockeye salmon, pink salmon, and chum salmon is one daily bag limit (six fish total).


(3) *Combination of bag/possession limits.* A person who fishes for or possesses salmon in or from the Cook Inlet EEZ Area, specified in paragraph (a) of this section, may not combine such bag or possession limits with any bag or possession limit applicable to Alaska State waters.


(4) *Responsibility for bag/possession limits.* The operator of a vessel that fishes for or possesses salmon in or from the Cook Inlet EEZ Area is responsible for the cumulative bag or possession limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section that apply to that vessel, based on the number of persons aboard.


(5) *Transfer at sea.* A person who fishes for or possesses salmon in or from the Cook Inlet EEZ Area under a bag or possession limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section may not transfer a salmon at sea from a fishing vessel to any other vessel, and no person may receive at sea such salmon.


(b) *Careful release.* Any salmon brought aboard a vessel and not immediately returned to the sea with a minimum of injury will be included in the daily bag limit of the person catching the salmon.






