# § 1.274-11   Disallowance of deductions for certain entertainment, amusement, or recreation expenditures paid or incurred after December 31, 2017.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in this section, no deduction otherwise allowable under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) is allowed for any expenditure with respect to an activity that is of a type generally considered to be entertainment, or with respect to a facility used in connection with an entertainment activity. For this purpose, dues or fees to any social, athletic, or sporting club or organization are treated as items with respect to facilities and, thus, are not deductible. In addition, no deduction otherwise allowable under chapter 1 of the Code is allowed for amounts paid or incurred for membership in any club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Entertainment*—(i) *In general.* For section 274 purposes, the term *entertainment* means any activity which is of a type generally considered to constitute entertainment, amusement, or recreation, such as entertaining at bars, theaters, country clubs, golf and athletic clubs, sporting events, and on hunting, fishing, vacation and similar trips, including such activity relating solely to the taxpayer or the taxpayer's family. These activities are treated as entertainment under this section, subject to the objective test, regardless of whether the expenditure for the activity is related to or associated with the active conduct of the taxpayer's trade or business. The term *entertainment* may include an activity, the cost of which otherwise is a business expense of the taxpayer, which satisfies the personal, living, or family needs of any individual, such as providing a hotel suite or an automobile to a business customer or the customer's family. The term *entertainment* does not include activities which, although satisfying personal, living, or family needs of an individual, are clearly not regarded as constituting entertainment, such as the providing of a hotel room maintained by an employer for lodging of employees while in business travel status or an automobile used in the active conduct of a trade or business even though used for routine personal purposes such as commuting to and from work. On the other hand, the providing of a hotel room or an automobile by an employer to an employee who is on vacation would constitute entertainment of the employee.


(ii) *Food or beverages.* Under this section, the term *entertainment* does not include food or beverages unless the food or beverages are provided at or during an entertainment activity. Food or beverages provided at or during an entertainment activity generally are treated as part of the entertainment activity. However, in the case of food or beverages provided at or during an entertainment activity, the food or beverages are not considered entertainment if the food or beverages are purchased separately from the entertainment, or the cost of the food or beverages is stated separately from the cost of the entertainment on one or more bills, invoices, or receipts. The amount charged for food or beverages on a bill, invoice, or receipt must reflect the venue's usual selling cost for those items if they were to be purchased separately from the entertainment or must approximate the reasonable value of those items. If the food or beverages are not purchased separately from the entertainment, or the cost of the food or beverages is not stated separately from the cost of the entertainment on one or more bills, invoices, or receipts, no allocation between entertainment and food or beverage expenses may be made and, except as further provided in this section and section 274(e), the entire amount is a nondeductible entertainment expenditure under this section and section 274(a).


(iii) *Objective test.* An objective test is used to determine whether an activity is of a type generally considered to be entertainment. Thus, if an activity is generally considered to be entertainment, it will be treated as entertainment for purposes of this section and section 274(a) regardless of whether the expenditure can also be described otherwise, and even though the expenditure relates to the taxpayer alone. This objective test precludes arguments that *entertainment* means only entertainment of others or that an expenditure for entertainment should be characterized as an expenditure for advertising or public relations. However, in applying this test the taxpayer's trade or business is considered. Thus, although attending a theatrical performance generally would be considered entertainment, it would not be so considered in the case of a professional theater critic attending in a professional capacity. Similarly, if a manufacturer of dresses conducts a fashion show to introduce its products to a group of store buyers, the show generally would not be considered entertainment. However, if an appliance distributor conducts a fashion show, the fashion show generally would be considered to be entertainment.


(2) *Expenditure.* The term *expenditure* as used in this section includes amounts paid or incurred for goods, services, facilities, and other items, including items such as losses and depreciation.


(3) *Expenditures for production of income.* For purposes of this section, any reference to *trade or business* includes an activity described in section 212.


(c) *Exceptions.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any expenditure described in section 274(e)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), or (9).


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. In each example, assume that the taxpayer is engaged in a trade or business for purposes of section 162 and that neither the taxpayer nor any business associate is engaged in a trade or business that relates to the entertainment activity. Also assume that none of the exceptions under section 274(e) and paragraph (c) of this section apply.


(1) *Example 1.* Taxpayer A invites, B, a business associate, to a baseball game to discuss a proposed business deal. A purchases tickets for A and B to attend the game. The baseball game is entertainment as defined in § 1.274-11(b)(1) and thus, the cost of the game tickets is an entertainment expenditure and is not deductible by A.


(2) *Example 2.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (*Example 1),* except that A also buys hot dogs and drinks for A and B from a concession stand. The cost of the hot dogs and drinks, which are purchased separately from the game tickets, is not an entertainment expenditure and is not subject to the disallowance under § 1.274-11(a) and section 274(a)(1). Therefore, A may deduct 50 percent of the expenses associated with the hot dogs and drinks purchased at the game if the expenses meet the requirements of section 162 and § 1.274-12.


(3) *Example 3.* Taxpayer C invites D, a business associate, to a basketball game. C purchases tickets for C and D to attend the game in a suite, where they have access to food and beverages. The cost of the basketball game tickets, as stated on the invoice, includes the food or beverages. The basketball game is entertainment as defined in § 1.274-11(b)(1), and, thus, the cost of the game tickets is an entertainment expenditure and is not deductible by C. The cost of the food and beverages, which are not purchased separately from the game tickets, is not stated separately on the invoice. Thus, the cost of the food and beverages is an entertainment expenditure that is subject to disallowance under section 274(a)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section, and C may not deduct the cost of the tickets or the food and beverages associated with the basketball game.


(4) *Example 4.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(3) of this section (*Example 3*), except that the invoice for the basketball game tickets separately states the cost of the food and beverages and reflects the venue's usual selling price if purchased separately. As in paragraph (d)(3) of this section (*Example 3*), the basketball game is entertainment as defined in § 1.274-11(b)(1), and, thus, the cost of the game tickets, other than the cost of the food and beverages, is an entertainment expenditure and is not deductible by C. However, the cost of the food and beverages, which is stated separately on the invoice for the game tickets and reflects the venue's usual selling price of the food and beverages if purchased separately, is not an entertainment expenditure and is not subject to the disallowance under section 274(a)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section. Therefore, C may deduct 50 percent of the expenses associated with the food and beverages provided at the game if the expenses meet the requirements of section 162 and § 1.274-12.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies for taxable years that begin on or after October 9, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 9925, 85 FR 64033, Oct. 9, 2020]




