# ยง 2101.2   Relationships of Commission's functions to responsibilities of other government units.

(a) *Projects involving the Capitol building and the Library of Congress.* Plans concerning the Capitol building and the buildings of the Library of Congress are outside the purview of the Commission except as to questions on which the Committees of Congress require the Commission to advise.


(b) *Other Federal government projects.* Officers and departments of the federal government responsible for finally approving or acting upon proposed projects within the purview of the Commission's functions as described in ยง 2101.1 (a) are required first to submit plans or designs for such projects to the Commission for its advice and comments.


(c) *Projects within the jurisdiction of the District of Columbia government.* The District of Columbia seeks Commission advice on exterior alteration or new construction of public buildings or major public works within its boundaries. The District of Columbia government also shall seek Commission advice on certain private construction requiring building or demolition permits from the D.C. Permit Branch (D.C. Law 5-422). These include certain actions by the District of Columbia government pursuant to either D.C. Law 5-422 or D.C. Law 2-144 within areas subject to the Shipstead-Luce or Old Georgetown Acts (ยง 2101.1 (b) and (c)) prior to the issuance of a permit. 
2 Alterations of buildings, demolition, or new construction at individually designated landmarks or within historic districts are further subject to the permit requirements of the Historic Landmark and Historic District Protection Act of 1978 (D.C. Law 2-144). Upon request, advice will be given on the subject of lot subdivisions.




