# ยง 618.255   Judicial review of determinations.

(a) *General.* A worker, group of workers, certified or recognized union, or authorized representative of such worker or group may commence a civil action for review of the determination by filing a complaint with the United States Court of International Trade (USCIT) within 60 days after the date of publication of the notice of a final determination in the _Federal Register_*,* as provided under section 284 of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2395).


(b) *Final determination.* Only determinations issued under ยง 618.245(g) are final determinations for purposes of judicial review.


(c) *Certified record of the Department.* Upon receiving a copy of the summons and complaint from the clerk of the USCIT, the Department will file with the court a certified record meeting the requirements of the rules of the USCIT. When the certified record contains confidential business information, the Department will file a public version of the record redacting the confidential business information, and a separate version that includes the confidential business information, in accordance with the rules of the USCIT.


(d) *Further proceedings.* Upon remand by the USCIT, the Department will conduct an additional investigation and the Certifying Officer will make new or modified findings of fact and will modify or affirm the previous determination. Upon making this subsequent determination, the Certifying Officer will publish a summary of the determination and the reasons for the determination in the _Federal Register_*,* redacting any confidential business information from the published summary. The Certifying Officer also will file the determination upon remand and the record on which the determination is based with the USCIT, in accordance with the rules of USCIT.


(e) *Standard of review.* The determination and findings of fact by the Certifying Officer are conclusive if the USCIT determines that they are supported by substantial evidence, as provided under section 284 of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2395).


(f) *Individual benefits denials.* Appeals of denials of individual benefits are not determinations under section 222 of the Act and are not subject to review by the USCIT under section 284 of the Act.


(g) *Manner of filing.* Requests for judicial review must be filed in accordance with the rules of the USCIT.




