# § 800.80   Methods and order of performing official inspection services.

(a) *Methods*—(1) *General.* All official inspection services shall be performed in accordance with methods and procedures prescribed in the regulations and the instructions.


(2) *Lot inspection services.* A lot inspection service shall be based on a representative sampling and examination of the grain in the entire lot, except as provided in § 800.85, and an accurate analysis of the grain in the sample.


(3) *Stowage examination service.* A stowage examination service shall be based on a thorough and accurate examination of the carrier or container into which grain will be loaded.


(4) *Submitted sample inspection service.* A submitted sample inspection service shall be based on a submitted sample of sufficient size to enable official personnel to perform a complete analysis for grade. If a complete analysis for grade cannot be performed because of an inadequate sample size or other conditions, the request for service shall be dismissed or a factor only inspection may be performed upon request.


(5) *Reinspection and appeal inspection service.* A reinspection, appeal inspection, or Board appeal inspection service shall be based on an independent review of official grade information, official factor information, or other information consistent with the scope of the original inspection.


(b) *Order of service.* Official inspection services shall be performed, to the extent practicable, in the order in which they are received. Priority shall be given to inspections required for export grain. Priority may be given to other kinds of inspection services under the Act with the specific approval of the Service.


(c) *Recording receipt of documents.* Each document submitted by or on behalf of an applicant for inspection services shall be promptly stamped or similarly marked by official personnel to show the date of receipt.


(d) *Conflicts of interest.* No official personnel shall perform or participate in performing an official inspection service on grain or on a carrier or container in which they have a direct or indirect financial interest.



---

[N] [50 FR 49669, Dec. 4, 1985]




