# § 870.15   Compliance, enforcement, and appeals.

(a) AMS will notify the appropriate investigating agencies of the United States and CCC may terminate the Agreement and demand a full refund of payments plus interest and suspend and debar the offending company from further government participation as deemed necessary to protect the interests of the government, if the eligible domestic user is suspected by AMS to have knowingly:


(1) Adopted any scheme or device which violates the Agreement;


(2) Made any fraudulent representation; or


(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a determination under the Agreement.


(b) No Member or Delegate of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of the Agreement or to any benefit to arise therefrom, except that this provision shall not be construed to extend to their interest in any incorporated company, if the Agreement is for the general benefit of such company, nor shall it be construed to extend to any benefit which may accrue to such official in their capacity as a party to an Agreement.


(c) Eligible domestic users who dispute a WCMD program administration decision may request a review of the decision by the Director.


(1) Requests for review must be in writing and contain the relevant facts upon which the review will be heard. Requests must be received by WCMD within 15 days from the date the eligible domestic user receives the disputed decision.


(2) Requests must be directed to: Director, Warehouse and Commodity Management Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, at *EAATM.ELS@usda.gov.*

(d) 7 CFR 2.79(a)(23) authorizes the AMS Administrator to administer the EAATM program (7 U.S.C. 9037(c)). In light of the aforementioned redelegation, AMS is considered a successor “Agency” under 7 CFR 11.1, and decisions made under EAATM, if deemed adverse, are subject to NAD jurisdiction. Accordingly, appeals under this program shall be heard by the USDA National Appeals Division.


(e) Eligible domestic users who dispute a review decision by the Director must appeal such decision to the USDA National Appeals Division pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 6912(e) and 7 CFR 11. Such an appeal must be made within 30 days of receipt of a WCMD decision.


(f) CCC may terminate the Upland Cotton Domestic User Agreement at any time.


(g) When a new Agreement is executed for any reason, including but not limited to programmatic requirements, expiration of authorizing legislation, or exhaustion of funds, any previous Agreement between CCC and the eligible domestic user shall be null and void/terminated.


(h) The Director may waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where timeliness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the program.










