# § 1070.16   Timing of responses to requests for CFPB records.

(a) *In general.* Except as set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, and § 1070.17, the CFPB shall respond to requests according to their order of receipt.


(b) *Multitrack processing.* (1) The CFPB may establish separate tracks to process simple and complex requests. The CFPB may assign a request to the simple or complex track(s) based on the amount of work and/or time needed to process the request. The CFPB shall process requests in each track based on the date the request was perfected in accordance with § 1070.14(d).


(2) The CFPB may provide a requester in its complex track with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request to qualify for faster processing within the specified limits of the simple track(s).


(c) *Time period for responding to requests for records.* Ordinarily, the CFPB shall have twenty (20) business days from when a request is received by the CFPB to determine whether to grant or deny a request for records. The twenty (20) business day time period set forth in this paragraph (c) shall not be tolled by the CFPB except that the CFPB may:


(1) Make one reasonable demand to the requester for clarifying information about the request and toll the twenty (20) business day time period while it awaits the clarifying information; or


(2) Toll the twenty (20) business day time period while it awaits clarification from or addresses any dispute with the requester regarding the assessment of fees.


(d) *Unusual circumstances.* (1) Where the CFPB determines that due to unusual circumstances it cannot respond either to a request within the time period set forth in paragraph (c) of this section or to an appeal within the time period set forth in § 1070.21, the CFPB may extend the applicable time periods by informing the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances and of the date by which the CFPB expects to complete its processing of the request or appeal. Any extension or extensions of time with respect to a request or an appeal shall not cumulatively total more than ten (10) business days. However, if the CFPB determines that it needs additional time beyond a ten (10) business day extension to process a request, then the CFPB shall notify the requester, provide the requester with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request, arrange for an alternative time frame for processing the request, or modify the request, and notify the requester of the availability of services provided by its FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).


(2) As used in this paragraph (d), “unusual circumstances” means:


(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;


(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or


(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more CFPB offices having substantial subject matter interest therein.




