# § 207.61   How is registration and listing information provided to FDA?

(a) *Electronic format.* (1) Except as provided in § 207.65, all information submitted under this part must be transmitted to FDA in electronic format by using our electronic drug registration and listing system, in a form that we can process, review, and archive. We may periodically issue guidance on how to provide registration and listing information in electronic format (specifying for example method of transmission, media, file formats, preparation, and organization of files).


(2) Information provided in electronic format must comply with part 11 of this chapter, except as follows:


(i) Advertisements and labeling, including the content of labeling, required under this part are exempt from the requirements in § 11.10(a), (c) through (h), and (k) of this chapter and the corresponding requirements in § 11.30 of this chapter.


(ii) All other information submitted under this part is exempt from the requirements in § 11.10(b), (c), and (e) of this chapter and the corresponding requirements in § 11.30 of this chapter.


(b) *English language.* Drug establishment registration and drug listing information must be provided in the English language. The content of labeling must be provided at a minimum in the English language. Where § 201.15(c) of this chapter permits product labeling solely in a foreign language, the content of labeling must be submitted in that language along with an accurate English translation.






