# § 283.5   Motion to dismiss.

(a) *Filing of motion to dismiss.* Prior to or at the same time as filing the answer, FNS may file a motion to dismiss. The appeal may be challenged on the basis that the notice of appeal was not filed within 10 days or as that time may have been extended by the ALJ, the appeal petition was not filed in accordance with § 283.4, or that the appeal petition is substantially incomplete and could not be quickly and easily cured by amendment. The motion must be accompanied by clear and convincing proof of any of these factors alleged as grounds for dismissal.


(b) *Service of motion to dismiss.* FNS shall serve the State agency with a copy of the motion to dismiss. The State agency will have 10 days from date of service to submit objections to the motion.


(c) *Ruling on a motion to dismiss.* The ALJ will rule on the motion to dismiss before any further action proceeds on the basis of the merits of the appeal. The basis of the ruling will be clearly documented and will become part of the official record. If the ALJ denies the motion, FNS shall file its answer in accordance with § 283.6 within 60 days of service of the ALJ's ruling, unless there is a motion for reconsideration filed pursuant to § 283.17(d) or review by the Judicial Officer is sought pursuant to § 283.20.


(d) *Dismissal of appeal.* If the ALJ finds the basis for the motion to have merit, the appeal may be dismissed. The initial decision of the ALJ shall become final and effective 30 days after service in accordance with § 283.17(c)(2) unless either party pursues the options as discussed in §§ 283.17(d) and 283.20.


(e) *Waiver.* Failure to file for dismissal of the appeal by the time the answer is required to be filed will result in waiver of the right to request dismissal.




