# § 63.7082   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each existing or new lime kiln(s) and their associated cooler(s), and processed stone handling (PSH) operations system(s) located at an LMP that is a major source.




(b) For purposes of complying with the PM emissions limitations of this subpart, a new lime kiln is a lime kiln, and (if applicable) its associated lime cooler, for which construction or reconstruction began after December 20, 2002, if you met the applicability criteria in § 63.7081 at the time you began construction or reconstruction.


(c) For the purposes of complying with the HCl, mercury, organic HAP, and D/F emissions limitations of this subpart, a new lime kiln is a lime kiln (only) for which construction or reconstruction began after January 5, 2023, if you met the applicability criteria in § 63.7081 at the time you began construction or reconstruction.








(d) A new PSH operations system is the equipment in paragraph (g) of this section, for which construction or reconstruction began after December 20, 2002, if you met the applicability criteria in § 63.7081 at the time you began construction or reconstruction.


(e) A lime kiln or PSH operations system is reconstructed if it meets the criteria for reconstruction defined in § 63.2.




(f) An existing lime kiln is any lime kiln, and (when complying with PM emissions limitations) its associated lime cooler, that does not meet the definition of a new kiln of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.




(g) An existing PSH operations system is any PHS operations system that does not meet the definition of a new PSH operations system in paragraph (c) of this section.


(h) A PSH operations system includes all equipment associated with PSH operations beginning at the processed stone storage bin(s) or open storage pile(s) and ending where the processed stone is fed into the kiln. It includes man-made processed stone storage bins (but not open processed stone storage piles), conveying system transfer points, bulk loading or unloading systems, screening operations, surge bins, bucket elevators, and belt conveyors. No other materials processing operations are subject to this subpart.


(i) Nuisance dust collectors on lime coolers are part of the lime materials processing operations and are not covered by this subpart.


(j) Lime hydrators are not subject to this subpart.


(k) Open material storage piles are not subject to this subpart.





---

[N] [69 FR 416, Jan. 5, 2004, as amended at 89 FR 57753, July 16, 2024]










