# § 902.60   Data collection.

(a) *Fiscal year reporting period—limitation on changes after PHAS effective date.* To allow for a period of consistent assessments to refine and make necessary adjustments to PHAS, a PHA is not permitted to change its fiscal year for the first 3 full fiscal years following the effective date of this regulation, unless such change is approved by HUD for good cause.


(b) *Request for extension of time to submit unaudited financial information.* In the event of extenuating circumstances, a PHA may request extensions of time to submit its unaudited financial information. To receive an extension, a PHA must ensure that HUD receives the extension request electronically 15 days before the submission due date. The PHA's electronic extension request must include an objectively verifiable justification as to why the PHA cannot submit the information by the submission due date. PHAs shall submit their requests for extensions of time for the submission of unaudited financial information through the FASS-PH Secure Systems Web site. HUD shall forward its determination electronically to the requesting PHA.


(c) *Request for waiver of due date for PHA submission of audited financial information.* (1) HUD, for good cause, may grant PHAs a waiver of the due date of the submission of audited financial information to HUD. HUD shall consider written requests from PHAs for a waiver of the report submission due date (established by the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, as no later than 9 months after the end of the fiscal year). The PHA's written request for a waiver of the due date of the submission of audited financial information must include an objectively verifiable justification as to why the PHA cannot submit the information by the submission due date. A PHA shall submit its written request for such a waiver, 30 days prior to the submission due date, to its local field office. HUD shall forward its written determination of the waiver request to the PHA and, if appropriate, establish a new submission due date for the audited financial information.


(2) A waiver of the due date for the submission of audited financial information to HUD does not relieve a PHA of its responsibility to submit its audited information to OMB's Federal Audit Clearinghouse no later than 9 months after the end of its fiscal year.


(d) *Rejected unaudited financial submissions.* When HUD rejects a PHA's year-end unaudited financial information after the due date, a PHA shall have 15 days from the date of the rejection to resubmit the information without a penalty being applied, in accordance with § 902.62.


(e) *Late points and late presumptive failure.* Late points and late presumptive failure will only be applied to the financial condition indicator since the management operations information is derived from the financial condition submission.


(f) *Score change.* A management operations score can change as a result of the audited submission since the management operations information is derived from the financial condition submission.



---

[N] [76 FR 10149, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 75941, Dec. 7, 2015]




