# ยง 8.13   Revocation of accreditation and Accreditation Body approval.

(a) *The Secretary's action following revocation of accreditation.* If an Accreditation Body revokes an OTP's accreditation, the Secretary may conduct an investigation into the reasons for the revocation. Following such investigation, the Secretary may determine that the OTP's certification should no longer be in effect, at which time the Secretary will initiate procedures to revoke the program's certification in accordance with ยง 8.14. Alternatively, the Secretary may determine that another action or combination of actions would better serve the public health, including the establishment and implementation of a corrective plan of action that will permit the certification to continue in effect while the OTP seeks reaccreditation.


(b) *Accreditation Body approval.* (1) If the Secretary withdraws the approval of an Accreditation Body under ยง 8.6, the certifications of OTPs accredited by such Body shall remain in effect for a period of 1 year after the date of withdrawal of approval of the Accreditation Body, unless the Secretary determines that to protect public health or safety, or because the Accreditation Body fraudulently accredited treatment programs, the certifications of some or all of the programs should be revoked or suspended or that a shorter time period should be established for the certifications to remain in effect. The Secretary may extend the time in which a certification remains in effect under this paragraph (b)(1) on a case-by-case basis.


(2) Within 1 year from the date of withdrawal of approval of an Accreditation Body, or within any shorter period of time established by the Secretary, OTPs currently accredited by the Accreditation Body must obtain accreditation from another Accreditation Body. The Secretary may extend the time period for obtaining reaccreditation on a case-by-case basis.






