# ยง 702.1   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless otherwise provided: 


(a) *The Act* means the United States Commission on Civil Rights Act of 1983, 97 Stat. 1301, as amended by the Civil Rights Commission Amendments Act of 1994, 108 Stat. 4339, codified in 42 U.S.C. 1975 through 1975d. 


(b) *The Commission* means the United States Commission on Civil Rights or, as provided in ยง 702.2, to any authorized subcommittee thereof. 


(c) *The Chairperson* means the Chairperson of the Commission or authorized subcommittee thereof or to any acting Chairperson of the Commission or of such subcommittee. 


(d) *Proceeding* means collectively to any public session of the Commission and executive session held in connection therewith. 


(e) *Hearing* means collectively to a public session of the Commission and any executive session held in connection therewith, including the attendance of witnesses or the production of written or other matters for which subpoenas have been issued. 


(f) *Witnesses* are persons subpoenaed to attend and testify or produce written or other matter. 


(g) *The rules in this part* means the Rules on Hearings of the Commission. 


(h) *Report* means statutory reports or portions thereof issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1975a(c). 


(i) *Verified answer* means an answer the truth of which is substantiated by oath or affirmation attested to by a notary public or other person who has legal authority to administer oaths. 




