# § 63.988   Incinerators, boilers, and process heaters.

(a) *Equipment and operating requirements.* (1) Owners or operators using incinerators, boilers, or process heaters to meet a weight-percent emission reduction or parts per million by volume outlet concentration requirement specified in a referencing subpart shall meet the requirements of this section.


(2) Incinerators, boilers, or process heaters used to comply with the provisions of a referencing subpart and this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions are vented to them.


(3) For boilers and process heaters, the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.


(b) *Performance test requirements.* (1) Except as specified in § 63.997(b), and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test of any incinerator, boiler, or process heater used to comply with the provisions of a referencing subpart and this subpart according to the procedures in § 63.997. Performance test records shall be kept as specified in § 63.998(a)(2) and a performance test report shall be submitted as specified in § 63.999(a)(2). As provided in § 63.985(b)(1), a design evaluation may be used as an alternative to the performance test for storage vessels and low throughput transfer rack controls. As provided in § 63.986(b), no performance test is required for equipment leaks.


(2) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test when any of the control devices specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section are used.


(i) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O;


(ii) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) or greater;


(iii) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel; or


(iv) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator meets the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) The boiler or process heater has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or


(B) The boiler or process heater has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(c) *Incinerator, boiler, and process heater monitoring requirements.* Where an incinerator, boiler, or process heater is used, a temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record that meets the provisions specified in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from monitoring. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in the referencing subpart and § 3.996.


(1) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the fire box or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the fire box in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(2) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.


(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) design heat input capacity is used and the regulated vent stream is not introduced as or with the primary fuel, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the fire box.




