# § 250.199   Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.

(a) OMB has approved the information collection requirements in part 250 under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* The table in paragraph (e) of this section lists the subpart in the rule requiring the information and its title, provides the OMB control number, and summarizes the reasons for collecting the information and how BSEE uses the information. The associated BSEE forms required by this part are listed at the end of this table with the relevant information.


(b) Respondents are OCS oil, gas, and sulphur lessees and operators. The requirement to respond to the information collections in this part is mandated under the Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 *et seq.*) and the Act's Amendments of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*). Some responses are also required to obtain or retain a benefit or may be voluntary. Proprietary information will be protected under § 250.197, Data and information to be made available to the public or for limited inspection; parts 30 CFR Parts 251, 252; and the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and its implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 2.


(c) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 requires us to inform the public that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.


(d) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collections of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.


(e) BSEE is collecting this information for the reasons given in the following table:



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 26015, Apr. 29, 2016; 81 FR 36149, June 6, 2016]








