# § 1.1361-5   Termination of QSub election.

(a) In *general*—(1) *Effective date.* The termination of a QSub election is effective—


(i) On the effective date contained in the revocation statement if a QSub election is revoked under § 1.1361-3(b); 


(ii) At the close of the last day of the parent's last taxable year as an S corporation if the parent's S election terminates under § 1.1362-2; or 


(iii) At the close of the day on which an event (other than an event described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) occurs that renders the subsidiary ineligible for QSub status under section 1361(b)(3)(B). 


(2) *Information to be provided upon termination of QSub election by failure to qualify as a QSub.* If a QSub election terminates because an event renders the subsidiary ineligible for QSub status, the S corporation must attach to its return for the taxable year in which the termination occurs a notification that a QSub election has terminated, the date of the termination, and the names, addresses, and employer identification numbers of both the parent corporation and the QSub. 


(3) *QSub joins a consolidated group.* If a QSub election terminates because the S corporation becomes a member of a consolidated group (and no election under section 338(g) is made) the principles of § 1.1502-76(b)(1)(ii)(A)(2) (relating to a special rule for S corporations that join a consolidated group) apply to any QSub of the S corporation that also becomes a member of the consolidated group at the same time as the S corporation. See *Example 4* of paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(4) *Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (a):*

(b) *Effect of termination of QSub election*—(1) *Formation of new corporation*—(i) *In general.* If a QSub election terminates under paragraph (a) of this section, the former QSub is treated as a new corporation acquiring all of its assets (and assuming all of its liabilities) immediately before the termination from the S corporation parent in exchange for stock of the new corporation. The tax treatment of this transaction or of a larger transaction that includes this transaction will be determined under the Internal Revenue Code and general principles of tax law, including the step transaction doctrine. For purposes of determining the application of section 351 with respect to this transaction, instruments, obligations, or other arrangements that are not treated as stock of the QSub under § 1.1361-2(b) are disregarded in determining control for purposes of section 368(c) even if they are equity under general principles of tax law. 


(ii) *Termination for tiered QSubs.* If QSub elections terminate for tiered QSubs on the same day, the formation of any higher tier subsidiary precedes the formation of its lower tier subsidiary. See Example 6 in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(2) *Carryover of disallowed losses and deductions.* If a QSub terminates because the S corporation distributes the QSub stock to some or all of the S corporation's shareholders in a transaction to which section 368(a)(1)(D) applies by reason of section 355 (or so much of section 356 as relates to section 355), see § 1.1366-2(c)(2) for provisions relating to the carryover of disallowed losses and deductions that may be available. 


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (b):


(c) *Election after QSub termination*—(1) *In general.* Absent the Commissioner's consent, and except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a corporation whose QSub election has terminated under paragraph (a) of this section (or a successor corporation as defined in§ 1.1362-5(b)) may not make an S election under section 1362 or have a QSub election under section 1361(b)(3)(B)(ii) made with respect to it for five taxable years (as described in section 1361(b)(3)(D)). The Commissioner may permit an S election by the corporation or a new QSub election with respect to the corporation before the five-year period expires. The corporation requesting consent to make the election has the burden of establishing that, under the relevant facts and circumstances, the Commissioner should consent to a new election. 


(2) *Exception.* In the case of S and QSub elections effective after December 31, 1996, if a corporation's QSub election terminates, the corporation may, without requesting the Commissioner's consent, make an S election or have a QSub election made with respect to it before the expiration of the five-year period described in section 1361(b)(3)(D) and paragraph (c)(1) of this section, provided that— 


(i) Immediately following the termination, the corporation (or its successor corporation) is otherwise eligible to make an S election or have a QSub election made for it; and


(ii) The relevant election is made effective immediately following the termination of the QSub election. 


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (c):



---

[N] [T.D. 8869, 65 FR 3852, Jan. 25, 2000; 65 FR 16318, Mar. 28, 2000, as amended by T.D. 8869, 67 FR 65313, Oct. 24, 2002]




