# § 4274.311   Eligibility requirements—ultimate recipients.

To be eligible for a loan from an intermediary under this subpart, an ultimate recipient must meet or comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) *Type of entity.* The ultimate recipient must be a legal entity that can incur debt, including but not limited to, an individual; a public organization; a private organization; or other legal entity.


(b) *Legal authority.* The ultimate recipient must have the legal authority to incur the debt and carry out the purpose of the loan.


(c) *Citizens.* An individual ultimate recipient must be a citizen. In the case of an entity ultimate recipient, at least 51 percent of the outstanding membership or ownership of the entity must be citizens.


(d) *Location.* The ultimate recipient project must be located in an eligible rural area, although funds may also be used for community projects that predominantly serve rural residents of a State. Predominantly serves means more than 50 percent of the ultimate recipient's service is to rural residents of a State.


(e) *Other financing unavailable.* The ultimate recipient must be unable to finance the entirety of the proposed project from its own resources, or through commercial credit or from other Federal, State, or local programs at reasonable rates and terms.


(f) *Legal or financial influence.* (1) The intermediary and its principals (including immediate families) must hold no legal or financial interest or influence in or with the ultimate recipient as this is considered a conflict of interest, as defined. However, this paragraph does not prevent an intermediary that is organized as a cooperative from making a loan to one of its members per § 4274.321(b)(4) of this subpart.


(2) The ultimate recipient must, along with its principals (including their immediate families), hold no legal or financial interest or influence in or with the intermediary as per § 4274.321(b)(4) as this is considered a conflict of interest, as defined.


(g) *Delinquent debt.* An ultimate recipient is ineligible to receive a loan from IRP loan funds if the ultimate recipient or any of its principals has any federal delinquent debt or is debarred from engaging in business with the Federal government. IRP loan funds may not be used to satisfy any Federal delinquent debt or used to make an otherwise ineligible ultimate recipient eligible for IRP loan funds.


(h) *Fund usage.* Ultimate recipients must demonstrate, to the Agency's satisfaction, that loan funds will remain in the United States and the facility being financed will primarily create new or save existing jobs for rural U.S. residents.






