# § 520.2345e   Tetracycline solution.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains the equivalent of either 25 or 100 milligrams of tetracycline hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* 25 milligrams per pound of body weight per day in divided doses every 6 hours.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Treatment of infections caused by organisms sensitive to tetracycline hydrochloride, such as bacterial gastroenteritis due to *Escherichia coli* and urinary tract infections due to *Staphylococcus* spp. and *E. coli.*

(iii) *Limitations.* Administer orally; continue treatment until symptoms have subsided and the temperature is normal for 48 hours; not for use in animals which are raised for food production; Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Dogs and cats*—(i) *Amount.* 25 milligrams per pound of body weight per day in divided doses every 6 hours.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Treatment of infections caused by organisms susceptible to tetracycline hydrochloride, such as bacterial gastroenteritis due to *E. coli* and urinary tract infections due to *Staphylococcus* spp. and *E. coli.*

(iii) *Limitations.* Administer orally; continue treatment until the temperature has been normal for 48 hours; not for use in food-producing animals; Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [57 FR 37329, Aug. 18, 1992, as amended at 79 FR 28831, May 20, 2014]




