# ยง 1.9001-4   Adjustments required in computing excess-profits credit.

(a) *In general.* Subsection (f) of the Act provides adjustments required to be made in computing the excess-profits credit for any taxable year under the Excess Profits Tax Act of 1940 (54 Stat. 975) or under the Excess Profits Tax Act of 1950 (64 Stat. 1137). These adjustments are set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and they shall apply notwithstanding the terms-letter.


(b) *Equity invested capital.* (1) Pursuant to subsection (f)(1) of the Act, in determining equity invested capital for any day of any taxable year under section 458 (relating to the Excess Profits Tax Act of 1950) or section 718 (relating to the Excess Profits Tax Act of 1940) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, the accumulated earnings and profits as of the changeover date, and as of the beginning of each taxable year thereafter, shall be reduced by the depreciation sustained before March 1, 1913, on all retirement-straight line property held on March 1, 1913, by the taxpayer or a predecessor for which cost was or is claimed as basis and which was held on the changeover date by the taxpayer or a predecessor. 


(2) For the computation of accumulated earnings and profits in determining equity invested capital, see 26 CFR (1941 Supp.) 30.718-2, as amended by Treasury Decision 5299, approved October 1, 1943, 8 FR 13451, C.B. 1943, 747 (Regulations 109); 26 CFR (1943 Cum. Supp.) 35.718-2 (Regulations 112); and 26 CFR (1939) 41.458-4 (Regulations 130).


(c) *Equity capital.* (1) Pursuant to subsection (f)(2) of the Act, in determining the adjusted basis of assets for the purpose of computing equity capital for any day under section 437(c) (relating to the Excess Profits Tax Act of 1950) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, the basis of the assets which enter into the computation shall also be reduced by:


(i) Depreciation sustained before March 1, 1913, on all retirement-straight line property held on March 1, 1913, by the taxpayer or a predecessor for which cost was or is claimed as basis and which was:


(*a*) Retired before the changeover date by the taxpayer or a predecessor, or


(*b*) Held on the changeover date by the taxpayer or a predecessor and also held as of the beginning of the day for which the equity capital is being determined; and


(ii) All depreciation applicable to the assets which enter into the computation and allowable under the terms-letter for all periods on and after the changeover date and before the taxable year for which the excess-profits credit is being computed.


(2) The adjustment required to be made by subparagraph (1)(i)(*a*) of this paragraph as of the beginning of the day for which the equity capital is being determined shall be made in accordance with the conditions and limitation described in paragraph (b)(2) of ยง 1.9001-2.


(3) For the determination of equity capital under section 437(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, see 26 CFR (1939) 40.437-5 (Regulations 130).


