# ยง 406.177   Petition to reconsider or modify a final decision and order of the FAA decisionmaker on appeal.

(a) *General.* Any party may petition the FAA decisionmaker to reconsider or modify a final decision and order issued by the FAA decisionmaker on appeal from an initial decision. A party must file a petition to reconsider or modify with the Federal Docket Management System not later than 30 days after service of the FAA decisionmaker's final decision and order on appeal and must serve a copy of the petition on each party. The FAA decisionmaker will not reconsider or modify an initial decision and order issued by an administrative law judge that has not been appealed by any party to the FAA decisionmaker. 


(b) *Contents.* A party must state briefly and specifically the alleged errors in the final decision and order on appeal, the relief sought by the party, and the grounds that support, the petition to reconsider or modify. 


(1) If the petition is based, in whole or in part, on allegations regarding the consequences of the FAA decisionmaker's decision, the party must describe these allegations and must describe, and support, the basis for the allegations. 


(2) If the petition is based, in whole or in part, on new material not previously raised in the proceedings, the party must set forth the new material and include affidavits of prospective witnesses and authenticated documents that would be introduced in support of the new material. The party must explain, in detail, why the new material was not discovered through due diligence prior to the hearing. 


(c) *Repetitious and frivolous petition.* The FAA decisionmaker will not consider a repetitious or frivolous petition. The FAA decisionmaker may summarily dismiss any repetitious or frivolous petition to reconsider or modify. 


(d) *Reply to petition.* Any other party may reply to a petition to reconsider or modify, not later than 10 days after service of the petition on that party, by filing a reply. A party must serve a copy of the reply on each party. 


(e) *Effect of filing petition.* Unless otherwise ordered by the FAA decisionmaker, filing a petition under this section stays the effective date of the FAA decisionmaker's final decision and order on appeal, and tolls the time allowed for judicial review. 


(f) *FAA decisionmaker's decision on petition.* The FAA decisionmaker may affirm, modify, or reverse the final decision and order on appeal, or may remand the case for any proceedings that the FAA decisionmaker determines may be necessary. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2001-8607, 66 FR 2180, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 68477, Dec. 5, 2007]




