# ยง 330.5   Procedure for obtaining and using information about daily rate of compensation.

(a) *Information furnished by employers.* Every employer, as defined in part 301 of this chapter, shall furnish information to the Board with respect to the daily rate of compensation of each employee for his or her last employment in the applicable base year. The employer shall make such report when it files its annual report of compensation in accordance with part 209 of this chapter and shall use the form prescribed by the Board for that purpose. If an employee's last daily rate of compensation in the base year is $99.99 or more, the employer may report such rate as $99.99 instead of the employee's actual last daily rate of compensation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary or a challenge by the employee, the daily rate of compensation provided by an employer under this section shall be used to compute a qualified employee's daily benefit rate. If an employer fails to report the last daily rate of compensation for a qualified employee who has applied for benefits or if an employee challenges the daily rate reported by an employer, the procedure in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section will apply.


(b) *Information furnished by employee.* The Board will afford an employee an opportunity to establish his or her last daily rate of compensation if the base year employer did not report a rate for the employee on its annual report of compensation or if the employee challenges the accuracy of the rate reported by the employer. Unless deemed unreasonable, a daily rate of compensation reported by an employee under this paragraph will be used provisionally to compute his or her daily benefit rate, but such rate will be verified in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. In any case in which the employee's report is deemed unreasonable and no employer report has been provided, the employee's report shall be disregarded, and the Board will seek to verify the employee's last daily pay rate in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Pending receipt of such verification, the employee's daily benefit rate shall be set at $12.70. When an unverified and uncorrected pay rate has been verified or corrected, appropriate redetermination of the daily benefit rate shall be made, and such redetermined benefit rate shall be applied to all the employee's days of unemployment or sickness in the benefit year.


(c) *Employer verification.* Whenever an employee has established a daily rate of compensation under paragraph (b) of this section, the Board will request the employee's base year employer to verify such rate within 30 days. If such verification is not received within 30 days, the employee's daily rate of compensation may be based upon other evidence gathered by the Board if such evidence is reasonable in light of compensation rates reported for other employees of the base year employer in the same occupation or class of service as the employer or in light of previous compensation rates reported by the base year employer for its employees. A daily benefit rate established under this paragraph may not exceed the maximum daily benefit rate established under this part.


(d) *Protest.* An employee who is dissatisfied with the daily benefit rate computed under this part may contest such computation in accordance with part 320 of this chapter.


