# § 271.101   Risk reduction programs.

(a) *Program required.* Each railroad shall establish and fully implement an RRP meeting the requirements of this part. An RRP shall systematically evaluate railroad safety hazards on a railroad's system and manage the resulting risks to reduce the number and rates of railroad accidents/incidents, injuries, and fatalities. An RRP is an ongoing program that supports continuous safety improvement. A railroad shall design its RRP so that it promotes and supports a positive safety culture at the railroad. An RRP shall include the following:


(1) A risk-based hazard management program, as described in § 271.103;


(2) A safety performance evaluation component, as described in § 271.105;


(3) A safety outreach component, as described in § 271.107;


(4) A technology analysis and technology implementation plan, as described in § 271.109;


(5) RRP implementation and support training, as described in § 271.111;


(6) Involvement of railroad employees in the establishment and implementation of an RRP, as described in § 271.113; and


(7) An FRMP as described in § 271.607.


(b) *RRP plans.* A railroad's RRP shall be supported by an FRA-approved RRP plan meeting the requirements of subpart C of this part.


(c) *Host railroads and system safety programs.* (1) If a railroad subject to this part (RRP railroad) hosts passenger train service for a railroad subject to the system safety program requirements in part 270 of this title (system safety program (SSP) railroad), the RRP railroad shall communicate with the SSP railroad to coordinate the portions of the system safety program applicable to the RRP railroad hosting the passenger train service.


(2) The RRP railroad shall incorporate its communication and coordination with the SSP railroad into its own RRP.


(d) *Persons that perform or utilize significant safety-related services.* Under § 271.205(a)(3), a railroad's RRP plan shall identify persons that enter into a contractual relationship with the railroad to either perform significant safety-related services on the railroad's behalf or to utilize significant safety-related services provided by the railroad for railroad operations purposes. For example, a railroad's RRP plan shall identify entities such as host railroads, contract operators, shared track/corridor operators, or other contractors utilizing or performing significant safety-related services. A railroad shall identify such persons even if the persons are not required to comply with this part (*e.g.,* a railroad shall identify a tourist railroad that operates over the railroad's track even though the tourist railroad is exempt from this rule under § 271.3(b)(2)). A railroad shall ensure persons performing or utilizing significant safety-related services support and participate in its RRP.



---

[N] [85 FR 9314, Feb. 18, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 35673, June 13, 2022]




