# ยง 417.223   Flight hazard area analysis.

(a) *General.* A flight safety analysis must include a flight hazard area analysis that identifies any regions of land, sea, or air that must be surveyed, publicized, controlled, or evacuated in order to control the risk to the public from debris impact hazards. The risk management requirements of ยง 417.205(a) apply. The analysis must account for, at a minimum:


(1) All trajectory times from liftoff to the planned safe flight state of ยง 417.219(c), including each planned impact, for an orbital launch, and through final impact for a suborbital launch;


(2) Regions of land potentially exposed to debris resulting from normal flight events and events resulting from any potential malfunction;


(3) Regions of sea and air potentially exposed to debris from normal flight events, including planned impacts;


(4) In the vicinity of the launch site, any waterborne vessels, populated offshore structures, or aircraft exposed to debris from events resulting from any potential abnormal flight events, including launch vehicle malfunction;


(5) Any operational controls implemented to control risk to the public from debris hazards;


(6) Debris identified by the debris analysis of ยง 417.211; and


(7) All launch vehicle trajectory dispersion effects in the surface impact domain.


(b) Public notices. A flight hazard areas analysis must establish the ship hazard areas for notices to mariners that encompass the three-sigma impact dispersion area for each planned debris impact. A flight hazard areas analysis must establish the aircraft hazard areas for notices to airmen that encompass the 3-sigma impact dispersion volume for each planned debris impact. Section 417.121(e) contains procedural requirements for issuing notices to mariners and airmen. 




