# § 201.6   Confidential business information.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Confidential business information* is information which concerns or relates to the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of works, or apparatus, or to the production, sales, shipments, purchases, transfers, identification of customers, inventories, or amount or source of any income, profits, losses, or expenditures of any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other organization, or other information of commercial value, the disclosure of which is likely to have the effect of either impairing the Commission's ability to obtain such information as is necessary to perform its statutory functions, or causing substantial harm to the competitive position of the person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other organization from which the information was obtained, unless the Commission is required by law to disclose such information. The term “confidential business information” includes “proprietary information” within the meaning of section 777(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1677f(b)). Nonnumerical characterizations of numerical confidential business information (e.g., discussion of trends) will be treated as confidential business information only at the request of the submitter for good cause shown. 


(2) *Nondisclosable confidential business information* is privileged information, classified information, or specific information (*e.g.,* trade secrets) of a type for which there is a clear and compelling need to withhold from disclosure. Special rules for the handling of such information are set out in § 206.17 and § 207.7 of this chapter.


(b) *Procedure for submitting business information in confidence.* (1) A request for confidential treatment of business information shall be addressed to the Secretary, United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436, and shall indicate clearly on the envelope that it is a request for confidential treatment. 


(2) In the absence of good cause shown, any request relating to material to be submitted during the course of a hearing shall be submitted at least three (3) working days prior to the commencement of such hearing. 


(3) With each submission of, or offer to submit, business information which a submitter desires to be treated as confidential business information, under paragraph (a) of this section, the submitter shall provide the following, which may be disclosed to the public: 


(i) A written description of the nature of the subject information; 


(ii) A justification for the request for its confidential treatment; 


(iii) A certification in writing under oath that substantially identical information is not available to the public; 


(iv) A copy of the document 


(A) Clearly marked on its cover as to the pages on which confidential information can be found; 


(B) With information for which confidential treatment is requested clearly identified by means of brackets; and 


(C) With information for which nondisclosable confidential treatment is requested clearly identified by means of triple brackets (except when submission of such document is withheld in accord with paragraph (b)(4) of this section); and 


(v) A nonconfidential copy of the documents as required by § 201.8(d). 


(4) The submission of the documents itemized in paragraph (b)(3) of this section will provide the basis for rulings on the confidentiality of submissions, including rulings on the confidentiality of submissions offered to the Commission which have not yet been placed under the possession, control, or custody of the Commission. The submitter has the option of providing the business information for which confidential treatment is sought at the time the documents itemized in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are provided or of withholding them until a ruling on their confidentiality has been issued. 


(c) *Identification of business information submitted in confidence.* Business information which a submitter desires to be treated as confidential shall be clearly labeled “confidential business information” when submitted, and shall be segregated from other material being submitted. 


(d) *Approval or denial of requests for confidential treatment.* Approval or denial of requests shall be made only by the Secretary or Acting Secretary. An approval or a denial of a request for confidential treatment shall be in writing. A denial shall specify the reason therefor, and shall advise the submitter of the right to appeal to the Commission.


(e) *Appeals from denial of confidential treatment.* (1) For good cause shown, the Commission may grant an appeal from a denial by the Secretary of a request for confidential treatment of a submission. Any appeal filed shall be addressed to the Chairman, United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436, and shall clearly indicate that it is a confidential submission appeal. An appeal may be made within twenty (20) days of a denial or whenever the approval or denial has not been forthcoming within ten (10) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays) of the receipt of a confidential treatment request, unless an extension notice in writing with the reasons therefor has been provided the person requesting confidential treatment. 


(2) An appeal will be decided within twenty (20) days of its receipt (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays) unless an extension notice in writing with the reasons therefor, has been provided the person making the appeal. 


(3) The justification submitted to the Commission in connection with an appeal shall be limited to that presented to the Secretary with the original or amended request. When the Secretary or Acting Secretary has denied a request on the ground that the submitter failed to provide adequate justification, any such additional justification shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration as part of an amended request. For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the twenty (20) day period for filing an appeal shall be tolled on the filing of an amended request and a new twenty (20) day period shall begin once the Secretary or Acting Secretary has denied the amended request, or the approval or denial has not been forthcoming within ten (10) days of the filing of the amended request. A denial of a request by the Secretary on the ground of inadequate justification shall not obligate a requester to furnish additional justification and shall not preclude a requester from filing an appeal with the Commission based on the justification earlier submitted to the Secretary.


(f) *Appeals from approval of confidential treatment.* (1) For good cause shown, the Commission may grant an appeal from an approval by the Secretary of a request for confidential treatment of a submission. Any appeal filed shall be addressed to the Chairman, United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20436, shall show that a copy thereof has been served upon the submitter, and shall clearly indicate that it is a confidential submission appeal. An appeal may be made within twenty (20) days of the approval by the Secretary of a request for confidential treatment or whenever the approval or denial has not been forthcoming within ten (10) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays) of the receipt of a confidential treatment request, unless an extension notice in writing with the reasons therefor has been provided the person requesting confidential treatment. 


(2) An appeal will be decided within twenty (20) days of its receipt (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays) unless an extension notice, in writing with the reasons therefor, has been provided the person making the appeal. 


(g) *Granting confidential status to business information.* Any business information submitted in confidence and determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be maintained in confidence by the Commission and not disclosed except as required by law. In the event that any business information submitted to the Commission is not entitled to confidential treatment, the submitter will be permitted to withdraw the tender within five days of its denial of confidential treatment unless it is the subject of a request under the Freedom of Information Act or of judicial discovery proceedings. After such five day period, the business information deemed not entitled to confidential treatment, and not withdrawn, will be treated as public information.


(h) *Scope of provisions.* The provisions of §§ 201.6(b) and 201.6 (d) through (g) shall not apply to adjudicative investigations under subchapter C, part 210, of the Commission's rules of practice and procedure. 



---

[N] [41 FR 28951, July 14, 1976, as amended at 49 FR 32571, Aug. 15, 1984; 54 FR 13678, Apr. 5, 1989; 61 FR 37827, July 22, 1996; 68 FR 32974, June 3, 2003]




