# § 63.850   Notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *Notifications.* The owner or operator shall submit the following written notifications:


(1) Notification for an area source that subsequently increases its emissions such that the source is a major source subject to the standard;


(2) Notification that a source is subject to the standard, where the initial startup is before the effective date of the standard;


(3) Notification that a source is subject to the standard, where the source is new or has been reconstructed, the initial startup is after the effective date of the standard, and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required;


(4) Notification of intention to construct a new major source or reconstruct a major source; of the date construction or reconstruction commenced; of the anticipated date of startup; of the actual date of startup, where the initial startup of a new or reconstructed source occurs after the effective date of the standard, and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required [see §§ 63.9(b)(4) and (b)(5)];


(5) Notification of initial performance test;


(6) Notification of initial compliance status;


(7) One-time notification for each affected source of the intent to use an HF continuous emission monitor;


(8) *Notification of compliance approach.* The owner or operator shall develop and submit to the applicable regulatory authority, if requested, an engineering plan that describes the techniques that will be used to address the capture efficiency of the reduction cells for gaseous hazardous air pollutants in compliance with the emission limits in §§ 63.843, 63.844, and 63.846; and


(9) One-time notification of startup of an existing potline or potroom group, anode bake furnace, or paste production plant that was shut down for a long period and subsequently restarted. The owner or operator must provide written notice to the Administrator at least 30 days before the startup.


(b) *Performance test reports*. Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests following the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/epa_home.asp*). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit performance test data in an electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site once the XML schema is available. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(3) For data collected which requires summation of results from both ERT and non-ERT supported test methods in order to demonstrate compliance with an emission limit, you must submit the results of the performance test(s) used to demonstrate compliance with that emission limit to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(c) *Performance evaluation reports*. Within 60 days after the date of completing each continuous emissions monitoring system performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedure specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX.) Performance evaluation data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit performance evaluation data in an electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site once the XML schema is available. If you claim that some of the performance evaluation information being transmitted is CBI, you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(2) For any performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(d) *Reporting*. In addition to the information required under § 63.10 of the General Provisions, the owner or operator must provide semiannual reports containing the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section to the Administrator or designated authority.


(1) Excess emissions report. As required by § 63.10(e)(3), the owner or operator must submit a report (or a summary report) if measured emissions are in excess of the applicable standard. The report must contain the information specified in § 63.10(e)(3)(v) and be submitted semiannually unless quarterly reports are required as a result of excess emissions.


(2) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the owner or operator must submit a report that includes the number, duration and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with §§ 63.843(f) and 63.844(f), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(e) *Recordkeeping.* The owner or operator shall maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) required by § 63.10(b) and by this subpart.


(1) The owner or operator must retain each record for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. The most recent 2 years of records must be retained at the facility. The remaining 3 years of records may be retained offsite;


(2) The owner or operator may retain records on microfilm, on a computer, on computer disks, on magnetic tape, or on microfiche;


(3) The owner or operator may report required information on paper or on a labeled computer disc using commonly available and compatible computer software; and


(4) In addition to the general records required by § 63.10(b), the owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information:


(i) Daily production rate of aluminum;


(ii) Daily production rate of green anode material placed in the anode bake furnace;


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) Records of design information for paste production plant capture systems;


(v) Records of design information for an alternative emission control device for a paste production plant;


(vi) Records supporting the monitoring of similar potlines demonstrating that the performance of similar potlines is the same as or better than that of potlines sampled by manual methods;


(vii) Records supporting a request for reduced sampling of potlines;


(viii) Records supporting the correlation of emissions measured by a continuous emission monitoring system to emissions measured by manual methods and the derivation of the alternative emission limit derived from the measurements;


(ix) The current implementation plan for emission averaging and any subsequent amendments;


(x) Records, such as a checklist or the equivalent, demonstrating that the daily inspection of a potline with wet roof scrubbers for secondary emission control has been performed as required in § 63.848(f)(5)(ii), including the results of each inspection;


(xi) Records, such as a checklist or the equivalent, demonstrating that the daily visual inspection of the exhaust stack for each control device has been performed as required in § 63.848(g), including the results of each inspection;


(xii) For a potline equipped with an HF continuous emission monitor, records of information and data required by § 63.10(c);


(xiii) Records documenting the corrective actions taken when the limit(s) for an operating parameter established under § 63.847(h) were exceeded, when visible emissions indicating abnormal operation were observed from a control device stack during a daily inspection required under § 63.848(g), or when a problem was detected during the daily inspection of a wet roof scrubber for potline secondary control required in § 63.848(f)(5)(ii);


(xiv) Records documenting any POM data that are invalidated due to the installation and startup of a cathode;


(xv) Records documenting the portion of TF that is measured as particulate matter and the portion that is measured as gaseous when the particulate and gaseous fractions are quantified separately using an approved test method;


(xvi) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (*i.e.* process equipment) or the air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment; and


(xvii) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with §§ 63.843(f) and 63.844(f), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(f) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (b) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [62 FR 52407, Oct. 7, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 66285, Nov. 2, 2005; 71 FR 20458, Apr. 20, 2006; 80 FR 62421, Oct. 15, 2015]




