# ยง 1240.41   Immigration judges.

(a) *Authority.* In any proceeding conducted under this part the immigration judge shall have the authority to determine deportability and to make decisions, including orders of deportation, as provided by section 242(b) and 242B of the Act; to reinstate orders of deportation as provided by section 242(f) of the Act; to determine applications under sections 208, 212(k), 241(a)(1)(E)(iii), 241(a)(1)(H), 244, 245 and 249 of the Act, section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100, and section 902 of Pub. L. 105-277; to determine the country to which an alien's deportation will be directed in accordance with section 243(a) of the Act; to order temporary withholding of deportation pursuant to section 243(h) of the Act; and to take any other action consistent with applicable law and regulations as may be appropriate. An immigration judge may certify his or her decision in any case to the Board of Immigration Appeals when it involves an unusually complex or novel question of law or fact. Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to diminish the authority conferred on immigration judges under section 103 of the Act.


(b) *Withdrawal and substitution of immigration judges.* The immigration judge assigned to conduct the hearing shall at any time withdraw if he or she deems himself or herself disqualified. If an immigration judge becomes unavailable to complete his or her duties within a reasonable time, or if at any time the respondent consents to a substitution, another immigration judge may be assigned to complete the case. The new immigration judge shall familiarize himself or herself with the record in the case and shall state for the record that he or she has done so.



---

[N] [62 FR 10367, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 27829, May 21, 1998; 63 FR 39121, July 21, 1998; 64 FR 25767, May 12, 1999]




