# ยง 28.5   Definitions.

(a) The terms *ALJ* and *HUD* are defined in 24 CFR part 5.


(b) The terms *Claim, Knows or has reason to know, Person, Reviewing Official,* and *Statement* have the same meanings as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3801.


(c) *Ability to pay* is determined based on an assessment of the respondent's resources available both presently and prospectively from which the Department could ultimately recover the total award, which may be predicted based on historical evidence.


(d) *Benefit* means anything of value, including, but not limited to, any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan insurance or guarantee.


(e) *Respondent* means any person alleged to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under ยง 28.25.


(f) The *reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments* is determined based on a generalized assessment made by a Reviewing Official based on the limited information available in the Report of Investigation for purposes of determining whether the allocation of HUD's resources to any particular action is appropriate. This assessment is not the same as the assessment made when determining ability to pay, nor is the reasonable prospect of collecting a factor to be considered in determining the amount of any penalty or assessment in any particular case.


(g) *Report of Investigation* means a report containing the findings and conclusions of a Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act investigation by the Inspector General or his or her designee, as described in ยง 28.15.



---

[N] [73 FR 76831, Dec. 17, 2008]




