# § 343a.1   Application for replacement of or new papers relating to naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation.

(a) *Lost, mutilated, or destroyed naturalization papers.* A person whose declaration of intention, certificate of naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation, or whose certified copy of proceedings under the act of June 25, 1936, as amended, or under section 317(b) of the Nationality Act of 1940, or under section 324(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or under the provisions of any private law, has been lost, mutilated, or destroyed, must apply on the form designated by USCIS with the fee specified in 8 CFR part 106 and in accordance with the form instructions. 


(b) *New certificate in changed name.* A naturalized citizen whose name has been changed after naturalization by order of court or by marriage must apply for a new certificate of naturalization, or of citizenship, in the changed name. 


(c) *Adjudication and disposition*—(1) *Interview.* The applicant shall only be required to appear in person for interview under oath or affirmation in specific cases. Those cases which necessitate an interview enabling an officer to properly adjudicate the application at the office having jurisdiction will be determined by USCIS.


(2) *Approval.* If an application for a new certificate of naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation or a new declaration of intention is approved, the new certificate or declaration will be issued and delivered by personal service in accordance with 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). If an application for a new certified copy of the proceedings under the Act of June 25, 1936, as amended, or under section 317(b) of the Nationality Act of 1940, or under section 324(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or under the provisions of any private law is approved, a certified photocopy of the record of the proceedings will be issued. If, subsequent to naturalization or repatriation, the applicant's name was changed by marriage, the certification of the photocopy will show both the name in which the proceedings were conducted and the changed name. The new certified copy will be delivered to the applicant in accordance with 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2).


(3) *Denial.* If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified of the reasons for the denial and of the right to appeal in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.



---

[N] [23 FR 9125, Nov. 26, 1958, as amended at 32 FR 9635, July 7, 1967; 51 FR 35629, Oct. 7, 1986; 76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020] 




