# § 165.1182   Safety/Security Zone: San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, and Suisun Bay, CA.

(a) *Regulated area.* The following area is established as a moving safety/security zone:


(1) All waters 200 yards ahead and astern and 100 yards to each side of every vessel transporting nuclear materials on behalf of the United States Department of Energy while such vessels transit from a line drawn between San Francisco Main Ship Channel Lighted Bell Buoy 7 and San Francisco Main Ship Channel Lighted Whistle Buoy 8 (LLNR 4190 & 4195, positions 37°46.9′ N, 122°35.4′ W & 37°46.5′ N, 122°35.2′ W, respectively) until safely moored at the Weapons Support Facility Seal Beach Detachment Concord on Suisun Bay (position 38°03.3′ N, 122°02.5′ W). All coordinates referenced use datum: NAD 1983.


(2) All waters within 100 yards of such vessels described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section while such vessels are conducting cargo operations at the Weapons Support Facility Seal Beach Detachment Concord.


(b) *Notification.* Commander, Eleventh Coast Guard District, will cause notice of the activation of this safety/security zone to be made by all appropriate means to effect the widest publicity among the affected segments of the public, including publication in the _Federal Register_ as practicable, in accordance with the provisions of 33 CFR 165.7(a); such means of announcement may include, but are not limited to, Broadcast Notice to Mariners. The Coast Guard will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners notifying the public when nuclear materials cargo handling has been completed.


(c) *Effective Period.* The safety/security zone will be effective commencing at the time any vessel described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section enters the zone described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and will remain in effect until all spent nuclear materials cargo handling operations have been completed at Weapons Support Facility Seal Beach Detachment Concord.


(d) *Regulations.* The general regulations governing safety and security zones contained in both 33 CFR 165.23 in 33 CFR 165.33 apply. Entry into, transit through, or anchoring within this moving safety/security zone is prohibited unless authorized by Commander, Eleventh Coast Guard District, or his designated representative.



---

[N] [CGD11-98-005, 63 FR 38754, July 20, 1998. Redesignated by USCG-2001-9286, 66 FR 33642, June 25, 2001; USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44287, July 27, 2015]




