# ยง 2.811   Filing of standard design certification application; required copies.

(a) *Serving of applications.* The signed original of an application for a standard design certification, including all amendments to the applications, must be sent either by mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by facsimile; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. eastern time; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, e-mail, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;* by e-mail to *MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov*; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. If the communication is on paper, the signed original must be sent.


(b) *Form of application.* Each original of an application and an amendment of an application must meet the requirements in ยง 2.813.


(c) *Capability to provide additional copies.* The applicant shall maintain the capability to generate additional copies of the general information and the safety analysis report, or part thereof or amendment thereto, for subsequent distribution in accordance with the written instructions of the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, or the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, as appropriate.


(d) *Public hearing copy.* In any hearing conducted under subpart O of this part for a design certification rulemaking, the applicant must make a copy of the updated application available at the public hearing for the use of any other parties to the proceeding, and shall certify that the updated copies of the application contain the current contents of the application submitted in accordance with the requirements of this part.


(e) *Pre-application consultation.* A prospective applicant for a standard design certification may consult with NRC staff before filing an application by writing to the Director, Division of New and Renewed Licenses, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, with respect to the subject matters listed in ยง 2.802(b)(1). A prospective applicant also may telephone the Regulatory Analysis and Rulemaking Support Branch, Division of Rulemaking, Environmental, and Financial Support, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, toll free on 1-800-368-5642 on these subject matters. In addition, a prospective applicant may confer informally with NRC staff before filing an application for a standard design certification, and the limitations on consultation in ยง 2.802(b)(2) do not apply.



---

[N] [72 FR 49482, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 62679, Dec. 1, 2009; 77 FR 46598, Aug. 3, 2012; 80 FR 60527, Oct. 7, 2015; 80 FR 74978, Dec. 1, 2015; 84 FR 65644, Nov. 29, 2019]




