# § 721.11466   Aromatic amide oxime (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic amide oxime (PMN P-14-865) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) through (3), and (6), (b) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(b), concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) where N=30.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57973, Sept. 17, 2020]




