# § 800.163   Divided-lot certificates.

(a) *General.* When shiplot grain is offered for inspection or Class X weighing as a single lot and is certificated as a single lot, the applicant may exchange the official certificate for two or more divided-lot certificates. This applies to original inspection, reinspection, appeal inspection, Board appeal inspection, and Class X weighing services.


(b) *Application.* Requests for divided-lot certificates shall be made (1) in writing; (2) by the applicant who filed the inital request; (3) to the office that issued the outstanding certificate; (4) within 5 business days of the outstanding certificate date; and (5) before the identity of the grain has been lost.


(c) *Quantity restrictions.* Divided-lot certificates shall not show an aggregate quantity different than the total quantity shown on the superseded certificate.


(d) *Surrender of certificate.* The certificate that will be superseded shall (1) be in the custody of the agency or the Service; (2) be marked “Void;” and (3) show the identification of the divided-lot certificates.


(e) *Certification requirements.* The same information and statements, including permissive statements, that were shown on the superseded certificate shall be shown on each divided-lot certificate. Divided-lot certificates shall show (1) a statement indicating the grain was inspected or weighed as an undivided lot; (2) the terms “Divided Lot-Original,” and the copies shall show “Divided Lot-Copies;” (3) the same serial number with numbered suffix (for example, 1764-1, 1764-2, 1764-3, and the like); and (4) the quantity specified by the request.


(f) *Issuance and distribution.* Divided-lot certificates shall be issued no later than the close of business on the next business day after the request and be distributed according to § 800.160.


(g) *Limitations.* No divided-lot certificate can be issued (1) for grain in any shipment other than shiplot grain inspected or weighed as a single lot or (2) for an export certificate which has been superseded by another export certificate. After divided-lot certificates have been issued, further dividing or combining is prohibited except with the approval of the Service.


(h) *Use of superseded certificate prohibited.* As of the date of the divided-lot certificate, the superseded certificate will be void and shall not be used or represent the grain.


