# ยง 19.459   Voluntary destruction.

(a) *General.* A proprietor may voluntarily destroy spirits, denatured spirits, articles, or wines on bonded premises as provided in this section. There is no tax liability on spirits, denatured spirits, articles, or wines destroyed in accordance with this section.


(b) *Wine notice.* A proprietor may destroy wine held on bonded premises only after the proprietor has filed a notice of intent to destroy with the appropriate TTB officer stating the kind and quantity of wine to be destroyed and the date and manner in which the wine is to be destroyed. The wine may be destroyed after the filing of the notice.


(c) *Gauging.* A proprietor must gauge all spirits, denatured spirits, articles, or wines to be destroyed. The proprietor may establish the gauge of spirits in bottles on the basis of legible case markings and label information in accordance with ยง 19.286. The proprietor must individually count bottles in partial cases.


(d) *Destruction off bonded premises.* If a proprietor intends to remove spirits, denatured spirits, articles, or wines from bonded premises in order to destroy them at a location off bonded premises, the proprietor must file a consent of surety to cover the removal. When the destruction takes place off plant premises, the proprietor must comply with applicable Federal, State, and local environmental laws and regulations.


(e) *Record of destruction.* The proprietor must record the destruction of spirits, denatured spirits, articles, or wines as provided in ยง 19.617.


