# § 173.165   Polyester resin kits.

(a) *General requirements.* Polyester resin kits consisting of a base material component (Class 3, Packing Group II or III) or (Division 4.1, Packing Group II or III) and an activator component (Type D, E, or F organic peroxide that does not require temperature control)—


(1) The organic peroxide component must be packed in inner packagings not over 125 mL (4.22 fluid ounces) net capacity each for liquids or 500 g (17.64 ounces) net capacity each for solids.


(2) Except for transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packaged in suitable inner packagings.


(i) For transportation by aircraft, a Class 3 Packing Group II base material is limited to a quantity of 5 L (1.3 gallons) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 1 L (0.3 gallons) in glass inner packagings. A Class 3 Packing Group III base material is limited to a quantity of 10 L (2.6 gallons) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 2.5 L (0.66 gallons) in glass inner packagings.


(ii) For transportation by aircraft, a Division 4.1 Packing Group II base material is limited to a quantity of 5 kg (11 pounds) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 1 kg (2.2 pounds) in glass inner packagings. A Division 4.1 Packing Group III base material is limited to a quantity of 10 kg (22 lbs) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 2.5 kg (5.5 pounds) in glass inner packagings.


(3) If the flammable liquid or solid component and the organic peroxide component will not interact dangerously in the event of leakage, they may be packed in the same outer packaging.


(4) The Packing Group assigned will be II or III, according to the criteria for Class 3, or Division 4.1, as appropriate, applied to the base material. Additionally, polyester resin kits must be packaged in specification combination packagings, based on the performance level required of the base material (II or III) contained within the kit, as prescribed in § 173.202, § 173.203, § 173.212, or § 173.213, as appropriate.


(5) For transportation by aircraft, the following additional requirements apply:


(i) Closures on inner packagings containing liquids must be secured by secondary means;


(ii) Inner packagings containing liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements prescribed in § 173.27(c); and


(iii) The total quantity of activator and base material may not exceed 5 kg (11 lbs) per package for a Packing Group II base material. The total quantity of activator and base material may not exceed 10 kg (22 lbs) per package for a Packing Group III base material. The total quantity of polyester resin kits per package is calculated on a one-to-one basis (*i.e.,* 1 L equals 1 kg).


(b) *Small and excepted quantities.* Polyester resin kits are eligible for the Small Quantity exceptions in § 173.4 and the Excepted Quantity exceptions in § 173.4a, as applicable.


(c) *Limited quantities.* Limited quantity packages of polyester resin kits are excepted from labeling requirements, unless the material is offered for transportation or transported by aircraft, and are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged in combination packagings according to this paragraph (c). For transportation by aircraft, only hazardous material authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. A limited quantity package that conforms to the provisions of this section is not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter, unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel, and is eligible for the exceptions provided in § 173.156. In addition, shipments of limited quantities are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter. Each package must conform to the general packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight.


(1) Except for transportation by aircraft, the organic peroxide component must be packed in inner packagings not over 125 mL (4.22 fluid ounces) net capacity each for liquids or 500 g (17.64 ounces) net capacity each for solids. For transportation by aircraft, the organic peroxide component must be packed in inner packagings not over 30 mL (1 fluid ounce) net capacity each for liquids or 100 g (3.5 ounces) net capacity each for solids.


(2) Except for transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 5 L (1.3 gallons) net capacity each for a Packing Group II and Packing Group III liquid. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 1 L (0.3 gallons) net capacity each for a Packing Group II material. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packed in metal or plastic inner packagings not over 5.0 L (1.3 gallons) net capacity each or glass inner packagings not over 2.5 L (0.66 gallons) net capacity each for a Packing Group III material.


(3) Except for transportation by aircraft, the flammable solid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 5 kg (11 pounds) net capacity each for a Packing Group II and Packing Group III solid. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable solid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 1 kg (2.2 pounds) net capacity each for a Packing Group II material. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable solid component must be packed in metal or plastic inner packagings not over 5.0 kg (11 pounds) net capacity each or glass inner packagings not over 2.5 kg (5.5 pounds) net capacity each for a Packing Group III material.


(4) If the flammable liquid or solid component and the organic peroxide component will not interact dangerously in the event of leakage, they may be packed in the same outer packaging.


(5) For transportation by aircraft, the following additional requirements apply:


(i) Closures on inner packagings containing liquids must be secured by secondary means as prescribed in § 173.27(d);


(ii) Inner packagings containing liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements prescribed in § 173.27(c); and


(iii) The total quantity of activator and base material may not exceed 1 kg (2.2 pounds) per package for a Packing Group II base material. The total quantity of activator and base material may not exceed 5 kg (11 pounds) per package for a Packing Group III base material. The total quantity of polyester resin kits per package is calculated on a one-to-one basis (*i.e.,* 1 L equals 1 kg);


(iv) Fragile inner packagings must be packaged to prevent failure under conditions normally incident to transport. Packages of consumer commodities must be capable of withstanding a 1.2 m drop on solid concrete in the position most likely to cause damage; and


(v) *Stack test capability.* Packages of consumer commodities must be capable of withstanding, without failure or leakage of any inner packaging and without any significant reduction in effectiveness, a force applied to the top surface for a duration of 24 hours equivalent to the total weight of identical packages if stacked to a height of 3.0 m (including the test sample).


(d) [Reserved]



---

[N] [82 FR 15880, Mar. 30, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 79777, Dec. 27, 2022]




