# ยง 270.104   Size and composition of a Team.

(a) *Size of a Team.* The size of a Team will depend upon the likely scope and complexity of the investigation. A Team may consist of five or less members if the investigation is narrowly focused, or a Team may consist of twenty or more members divided into groups if the breadth of the investigation spans a number of technical issues. In addition, Teams may be supported by others at NIST, in other federal agencies, and in the private sector, who may conduct supporting experiments, analysis, interviews witnesses, and/or examine the response of first responders, occupants, etc.


(b) *Composition of a Team.* (1) A Team will be composed of individuals selected by the Director and led by a Lead Investigator designated by the Director.


(2) The Lead Investigator will be a NIST employee, selected based on his/her technical qualifications, ability to mobilize and lead a multi-disciplinary investigative team, and ability to deal with sensitive issues and the media.


(3) Team members will include at least one employee of NIST and will include experts who are not employees of NIST, who may include private sector experts, university experts, representatives of professional organizations with appropriate expertise, and appropriate Federal, State, or local officials.


(4) Team members who are not Federal employees will be Federal Government contractors.


(5) Teams may include members who are experts in one or more of the following disciplines: civil, structural, mechanical, electrical, fire, forensic, safety, architectural, and materials engineering, and specialists in emergency response, human behavior, and evacuation.


(c) *Duration of a Team.* A Team's term will end 3 months after the Team's final public report is published, but the term may be extended or terminated earlier by the Director.



---

[N] [68 FR 66704, Nov. 28, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 33571, June 16, 2004]




