# § 385.713   Request for rehearing (Rule 713).

(a) *Applicability.* (1) This section applies to any request for rehearing of a final Commission decision or other final order, if rehearing is provided for by statute, rule, or order.


(2) For the purposes of rehearing under this section, a final decision in any proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part includes any Commission decision:


(i) On exceptions taken by participants to an initial decision;


(ii) When the Commission presides at the reception of the evidence;


(iii) If the initial decision procedure has been waived by consent of the participants in accordance with Rule 710; 


(iv) On review of an initial decision without exceptions under Rule 712; and


(v) On any other action designated as a final decision by the Commission for purposes of rehearing.


(3) For the purposes of rehearing under this section, any initial decision under Rule 709 is a final Commission decision after the time provided for Commission review under Rule 712, if there are no exceptions filed to the decision and no review of the decision is initiated under Rule 712.


(b) *Time for filing; who may file.* A request for rehearing by a party must be filed not later than 30 days after issuance of any final decision or other final order in a proceeding.


(c) *Content of request.* Any request for rehearing must:


(1) State concisely the alleged error in the final decision or final order;


(2) Conform to the requirements in Rule 203(a), which are applicable to pleadings, and, in addition, include a separate section entitled “Statement of Issues,” listing each issue in a separately enumerated paragraph that includes representative Commission and court precedent on which the party is relying; any issue not so listed will be deemed waived; and 


(3) Set forth the matters relied upon by the party requesting rehearing, if rehearing is sought based on matters not available for consideration by the Commission at the time of the final decision or final order.


(d) *Answers.* (1) The Commission will not permit answers to requests for rehearing.


(2) The Commission may afford parties an opportunity to file briefs or present oral argument on one or more issues presented by a request for rehearing.


(e) *Request is not a stay.* Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, the filing of a request for rehearing does not stay the Commission decision or order.


(f) *Commission action on rehearing.* Unless the Commission acts upon a request for rehearing within 30 days after the request is filed, the request is denied.



---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984; Order 575, 60 FR 4860, Jan. 25, 1995; 60 FR 16567, Mar. 31, 1995; Order 663, 70 FR 55725, Sept. 23, 2005; 71 FR 14642, Mar. 23, 2006]




