# § 744.1   General provisions.

(a)(1) *Introduction.* In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part contains prohibitions against exports, reexports, and selected transfers to certain end users and end uses as introduced under General Prohibitions Five (End use/End users) and Nine (Orders, Terms, and Conditions), unless authorized by BIS. Sections 744.2, 744.3, and 744.4 prohibit exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear, missile, and chemical and biological weapons proliferation activities. Section 744.5 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear maritime end-uses. Consistent with General Prohibition Seven (Support of Proliferation Activities and certain Military-Intelligence End Uses and End Users (“U.S. person” activities)), § 744.6 prohibits specific activities by U.S. persons in support of certain nuclear, missile, chemical and biological weapons end uses, and whole plants for chemical weapons precursors, as well as certain military-intelligence end uses and military-intelligence end users. Section 744.7 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain items for certain aircraft and vessels. Section 744.8 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) without authorization when a person designated on the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) pursuant to certain specified sanctions programs is a party to the transaction. Section 744.9 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain cameras, systems, or related components. Section 744.11 imposes license requirements, to the extent specified in supplement no. 4 to this part, on entities listed in supplement no. 4 to this part for activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. Section 744.15 sets forth the conditions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to persons listed on the Unverified List (UVL) in supplement no. 6 to this part, the criteria for revising the UVL, as well as procedures for requesting removal or modification of a listing on the UVL. Section 744.16 sets forth the license requirements, policies and procedures for the Entity List. Section 744.17 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of microprocessors and associated “software” and “technology” for military end uses and to military end users. Section 744.19 sets forth BIS's licensing policy for applications for export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) when a party to the transaction is an entity that has been sanctioned pursuant to any of three specified statutes that require certain license applications to be denied. In addition, these sections include license review standards for export, reexport, and in-country transfer license applications submitted as required by these sections. It should also be noted that part 764 of the EAR prohibits exports, reexports, and certain transfers of items subject to the EAR to denied parties. Section 744.21 imposes restrictions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part for a military end use or military end user in Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (PRC or China), Nicaragua, or Venezuela and for a Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Nicaraguan, or Venezuelan military end user if identified in supplement no. 7 to this part. Section 744.21 also imposes restrictions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for all items subject to the EAR for a military end use or military end user in Belarus or Russia and for a Belarusian or Russian military end user wherever located if identified on supplement no. 4 to this part. Section 744.22 imposes restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for a military-intelligence end use or military-intelligence end user in Burma, China, Russia, or Venezuela; or for a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). Section 744.23 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for certain “supercomputer” and semiconductor manufacturing end use.




(2) If controls set forth under more than one section of part 744 apply to a person, the license requirements for such a person will be determined based on the requirements of all applicable sections of part 744, and license applications will be reviewed under all applicable licensing policies. 


(b) *Steps.* The following are steps you should follow in using the provisions of this part:


(1) *Review end-use and end-user prohibitions.* First, review each end-use and end-user prohibition described in this part to learn the scope of these prohibitions.


(2) * Determine applicability.* Second, determine whether any of the end-use and end-user prohibitions described in this part are applicable to your planned export, reexport, shipment, transmission, transfer (in-country) or other activity. See supplement no. 1 to part 732 for guidance. For exports, reexports, shipments, transmissions, or transfers (in-country) that are in transit at the time you are informed by BIS that a license is required in accordance with §§ 744.2(b), 744.3(b), 744.4(b), 744.6(c), 744.9(b), 744.11(c), 744.17(b), 744.21(b), or 744.22(b) of the EAR, you may not proceed any further with the transaction unless you first obtain a license from BIS (see part 748 of the EAR for instructions on how to apply for a license). The provisions of § 748.4(d)(2) of the EAR shall not apply to license applications submitted pursuant to a notification from BIS that occurs while an export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is in transit.



---

[N] [61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996] 


