# ยง 253.14   Loan documents.

(a) *U.S. Note.* (1) The U.S. Note will be in the form the Program prescribes.


(2) The U.S. Note evidences the obligor's indebtedness to the United States.


(i) For financing approved after October 11, 1996, the U.S. Note evidences the obligor's actual indebtedness to the U.S.; and


(ii) For financing originating before October 11, 1996, that continues to be associated with a Guaranteed Note, the U.S. Note shall evidence the obligor's actual indebtedness to the U.S. upon the Program's payment of any or all of the sums due under the Guaranteed Note or otherwise disbursed on the obligor's behalf.


(iii) The U.S. Note will, among other things, contain provisions to add to its principal balance all amounts the Program advances or incurs, including additional interest charges and costs incurred to protect its interest or accommodate the obligor.


(3) The U.S. Note shall be assignable by the Program, at its sole discretion.


(b) *Security documents.* (1) Each security document will be in the form the Program prescribes.


(2) The Program will, at a minimum, require the pledge of adequate collateral, generally in the form of a security interest or mortgage against all property associated with a project or security as otherwise required by the Program.


(3) The Program will require such other security as it deems necessary and appropriate, given the circumstances of each obligor and the project.


(4) The security documents will, among other things, contain provisions to secure the repayment of all additional amounts the Program advances or incurs to protect its interest or accommodate the obligor, including additional interest charges and fees.




