# § 417.594   Computation of adjusted community rate (ACR).

(a) *Basic rule.* Each HMO or CMP must compute its basic rate as follows: 


(1) Compute an initial rate in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. 


(2) Adjust and reduce the initial rate in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. 


(b) *Computation of initial rates.* (1) The HMO or CMP must compute its initial rate using either of the following systems: 


(i) A community rating system as defined in § 417.104(b); or 


(ii) A system, approved by CMS, under which the HMO or CMP develops an aggregate premium for all its enrollees and weights the aggregate by the size of the various enrolled groups that compose its enrollment.


(2) Regardless of which method the HMO or CMP uses—


(i) The initial rate must be equal to the premium it would charge its non-Medicare enrollees for the Medicare-covered services; 


(ii) The HMO or CMP must compute the rates separately for enrollees entitled to Medicare Part A and Part B and for those entitled only to Part B; and 


(iii) The HMO or CMP must identify and take into account anticipated revenue from health insurance payers for those services for which Medicare is not the primary payer as provided in § 417.528. 


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the HMO or CMP must identify in its initial rate calculation, the following components whose rates must be consistent with rates used by the HMO or CMP in calculating premiums for non-Medicare enrollees:


(i) Hospital services (services covered under Medicare Part A and Part B shown separately). 


(ii) Physicians' services.


(iii) Other medical services (for example, X-ray and laboratory services).


(iv) Home health services.


(v) Out-of-plan claims for emergency services.


(vi) Skilled nursing care services.


(vii) Ambulance services. 


(viii) Other Medicare covered services.


(ix) General and administrative.


(x) Noncovered Medicare services (for example, eyeglasses).


(xi) Services for which Medicare is the secondary payer.


(xii) Enrollee liabilities (for example, deductibles, coinsurance, or copayments) for covered services.


(4) An HMO or CMP that does not usually separate its premium components as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may calculate its initial rate with the methods it uses for its other enrolled groups if the HMO or CMP provides CMS with the documentation necessary to support any adjustments the HMO or CMP makes to the initial rate in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(5) The initial rate calculation must not carry forward any losses experienced by the HMO or CMP during prior contract periods. The HMO or CMP must submit supporting documentation to assure CMS that rates do not include past losses but only premiums for the price of additional benefits and services of the upcoming contract period.


(c) *Adjustment of initial rates*—(1) *Purpose of adjustment.* The purpose of adjustment is to reflect the utilization characteristics of Medicare enrollees. 


(2) *Adjustment by the HMO or CMP.* The HMO or CMP may adjust the rate for a particular service using more than one of the following factors if they do not duplicate each other: 


(i) *Unit of service.* If the HMO or CMP purchases or identifies services on a unit of service basis and the unit of service is defined the same for all enrollees, the HMO or CMP may make an adjustment in its initial rate to reflect the number of units of services furnished to its Medicare enrollees in comparison to those furnished to other enrollees. 


(ii) *Complexity or intensity of services.* The HMO or CMP may make an adjustment to reflect the differences in the complexity or intensity of services furnished to its Medicare enrollees if the calculation of its initial rate includes the elements of this adjustment. 


(3) *Support documentation.* All adjustments made by the HMO or CMP must be accompanied by adequate supporting data. If an HMO or CMP does not have sufficient enrollment experience to develop this data, it may, during its initial contract period, use documented statistics from a nationally recognized statistical source. 


(4) *Adjustment by CMS.* If the HMO or CMP does not have adequate data to adjust the initial rate calculated under paragraph (b) of this section to reflect the utilization characteristics of its Medicare enrollees, CMS will, at the HMO's or CMP's request, adjust the initial rate. CMS adjusts the rate on the basis of differences in the utilization characteristics of—


(i) Medicare and non-Medicare enrollees in other HMOs or CMPs; or 


(ii) Medicare beneficiaries (in the HMO's or CMP's area, or State, or the United States) who are eligible to enroll in an HMO or CMP and other individuals in that same area, or State, or the United States. 


(d) *Reduction of adjusted rates.* The HMO or CMP or CMS further reduces the adjusted rates by the actuarial value of applicable Medicare deductibles and coinsurance. 


(e) *CMS review*—(1) *Submission of data.* The HMO or CMP must submit its ACR and the methodology used to compute it for CMS review and approval, and must include adequate supporting data. 


(2) *Appeals procedures.* (i) If CMS determines that an HMO's or CMP's ACR computation is not acceptable, the HMO or CMP may, within 30 days after receipt of notice of the determination, file with CMS a request for a hearing. 


(ii) The request must state why the HMO or CMP believes the determination is incorrect, and include any supporting evidence the HMO or CMP considers pertinent. 


(iii) A hearing officer designated by CMS conducts the hearing in accordance with the hearing procedures set forth in §§ 405.1819 through 405.1833 of this chapter.



---

[N] [50 FR 1346, Jan. 10, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 38080, July 15, 1993; 60 FR 46232, Sept. 6, 1995]




