# § 702.402   Definitions.

To the extent they differ, the definitions in this section apply only to Subordinated Debt and not to Grandfathered Secondary Capital. (Definitions applicable to Grandfathered Secondary Capital are in § 702.414.) All other terms in this subpart and not expressly defined in this section have the meanings assigned to them elsewhere in this part. For ease of use, certain key terms are included in this section using cross citations to other sections of this part where those terms are defined.


*Accredited Investor* means a Natural Person Accredited Investor or an Entity Accredited Investor, as applicable.


*Appropriate Supervision Office* means, with respect to any credit union, the Regional Office or Office of National Examinations and Supervision that is responsible for supervision of that credit union.


*Complex credit union* has the same meaning as in subpart A of this part.


*Entity Accredited Investor* means an entity that, at the time of offering and closing of the issuance and sale of Subordinated Debt to that entity, meets the requirements of 17 CFR 230.501(a).


*Grandfathered Secondary Capital* means any secondary capital issued under § 701.34 of this chapter before January 1, 2022, or, in the case of a federally insured, state-chartered credit union, with § 741.204(c) of this chapter, before January 1, 2022. (12 CFR 701.34 was recodified as § 702.414 as of January 1, 2022). This term also includes issuances of secondary capital to the U.S. Government or any of its subdivisions, under applications approved before January 1, 2022, pursuant to § 701.34 or § 741.204(c) of this chapter, irrespective of the date of issuance.


*Immediate Family Member* means spouse, child, sibling, parent, grandparent, or grandchild (including stepparents, stepchildren, stepsiblings, and adoptive relationships).


*Issuing Credit Union* means, for purposes of this subpart, a credit union that has issued, or is in the process of issuing, Subordinated Debt or Grandfathered Secondary Capital in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.


*Low-income designated credit union (LICU)* is a credit union designated as having low-income status in accordance with § 701.34 of this chapter.


*Natural Person Accredited Investor* means a natural person who, at the time of offering and closing of the issuance and sale of Subordinated Debt to that person, meets the requirements of 17 CFR 230.501(a); *provided* that, for purposes of purchasing or holding any Subordinated Debt Note, this term shall not include any board member or Senior Executive Officer of the Issuing Credit Union or any Immediate Family Member of any board member or Senior Executive Officer of the Issuing Credit Union.


*Net worth* has the same meaning as in § 702.2.


*Net worth ratio* has the same meaning as in § 702.2.


*New credit union* has the same meaning as in § 702.201.


*Offering Document* means the document(s) required by § 702.408, including any term sheet, offering memorandum, private placement memorandum, offering circular, or other similar document used to offer and sell Subordinated Debt Notes.


*Pro Forma Financial Statements* means projected financial statements that show the effects of proposed transactions as if they actually occurred in a variety of plausible scenarios, including both optimistic and pessimistic assumptions, over measurement horizons that align with the credit union's expected activities.




*Qualified Counsel* means an attorney licensed to practice law who has expertise in the areas of Federal and state securities laws and debt transactions similar to those described in this subpart.




*Regulatory Capital* means:


(1) With respect to an Issuing Credit Union that is a LICU and not a complex credit union, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Subordinated Debt and, until the later of 30 years from the date of issuance or January 1, 2052, Grandfathered Secondary Capital that is included in the credit union's net worth ratio;


(2) With respect to an Issuing Credit Union that is a complex credit union and not a LICU, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Subordinated Debt that is included in the credit union's RBC ratio, if applicable;


(3) With respect to an Issuing Credit Union that is both a LICU and a complex credit union, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Subordinated Debt and, until the later of 30 years from the date of issuance or January 1, 2052, Grandfathered Secondary Capital that is included in its net worth ratio and in its RBC ratio, if applicable; and


(4) With respect to a new credit union, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Subordinated Debt and, until the later of 30 years from the date of issuance or January 1, 2052, Grandfathered Secondary Capital that is considered pursuant to § 702.207.






*Retained Earnings* has a meaning that is consistent with the one for this term under United States GAAP.


*Risk-based capital (RBC) ratio* has the same meaning as in § 702.2.


*Senior Executive Officer* means a credit union's chief executive officer (for example, president or treasurer/manager), any assistant chief executive officer (*e.g.,* any assistant president, any vice president or any assistant treasurer/manager) and the chief financial officer (controller). The term “Senior Executive Officer” also includes employees and contractors of an entity, such as a consulting firm, hired to perform the functions of positions covered by the term Senior Executive Officer.


*Subordinated Debt* means an Issuing Credit Union's borrowing that meets the requirements of this subpart, including all obligations and contracts related to such borrowing.


*Subordinated Debt Note* means the written contract(s) evidencing the Subordinated Debt.



---

[N] [86 FR 11074, Feb. 23, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 72809, Dec. 23, 2021; 88 FR 18010, Mar. 27, 2023]




