# ยง 36.42   Public participation and closure procedures.

(a) *Authority.* The Refuge Manager may close an area or restrict an activity on an emergency, temporary, or permanent basis.


(b) *Criteria.* In determining whether to close an area or restrict an activity otherwise allowed, the Refuge Manager shall be guided by factors such as public health and safety, resource protection, protection of cultural or scientific values, subsistence uses, endangered or threatened species conservation, and other management considerations necessary to ensure that the activity or area is being managed in a manner compatible with the purposes for which the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge area was established.


(c) *Emergency closures or restrictions.* (1) Emergency closures or restrictions relating to the use of aircraft, snowmachines, motorboats, or non-motorized surface transportation shall be made after notice and hearing;


(2) Emergency closures or restrictions relating to the taking of fish and wildlife shall be accompanied by notice with a subsequent hearing;


(3) Other emergency closures or restrictions shall become effective upon notice as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section; and


(4) No emergency closure or restriction shall be for a period exceeding 30 days.


(d) *Temporary closures or restrictions.* (1) Temporary closures or restrictions relating to the use of aircraft, snowmachines, motorboats or non-motorized surface transportation, or to the taking of fish and wildlife, shall not be effective prior to notice and hearing in the vicinity of the area(s) affected by such closures or restriction, and other locations as appropriate;


(2) Other temporary closures shall be effective upon notice as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section; and


(3) Temporary closures or restrictions shall extend only for so long as necessary to achieve their purposes, and in no case may exceed 12 months or be extended beyond that time.


(e) *Permanent closures or restrictions.* Permanent closures or restrictions shall be made only after notice and public hearings in the affected vicinity and other locations as appropriate, and after publication in the _Federal Register_.


(f) *Notice.* Emergency, temporary, or permanent closures or restrictions shall be:


(1) Published in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the State and in at least one local newspaper if available, posted at community post offices within the vicinity affected, made available for broadcast on local radio stations in a manner reasonably calculated to inform residents in the affected vicinity, and designated on a map which shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Refuge Manager and other places convenient to the public; or


(2) Designated by the posting of appropriate signs; or


(3) Both.


(g) *Openings.* In determining whether to open an area to public use or activity otherwise prohibited, the Refuge Manager shall provide notice in the _Federal Register_ and shall, upon request, hold a hearing in the affected vicinity and other location, as appropriate, prior to making a final determination.


(h) *Prohibitions.* Except as otherwise specifically permitted under the provisions of this part, entry into closed areas or failure to abide by restrictions established under this section is prohibited.



---

[N] [46 FR 31827, June 17, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 52273, Aug. 5, 2016; 82 FR 52011, Nov. 9, 2017]




