# § 63.4181   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, the General Provisions of this part, and in this section as follows: 


*Add-on control device* means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon absorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere. 


*Adhesive* means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together. 


*Capture device* means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on control device. 


*Capture efficiency* or *capture system efficiency* means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device. 


*Capture system* means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings and cleaning materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings and cleaning materials occur, such as flashoff, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system. 


*Cleaning material* means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (e.g., depainting) from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes cleaning materials used for substrates or equipment or both. 


*Coating* means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. For the purposes of this subpart, coatings include paints, porcelain enamels, sealants, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coating operation* means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for coating application or to remove dried coating (surface preparation), to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application, or to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment but always includes at least the point at which a coating or cleaning material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating or cleaning material occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Applications of coatings using hand-held, nonrefillable aerosol containers, touchup markers, or marking pens are not coating operations for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coating solids* means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film. 


*Continuous parameter monitoring system* means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, capture system, or add-on control device parameters. 


*Controlled coating operation* means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device. 


*Deviation* means:


(1) Before September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard;


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and


(2) On and after September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Emission limitation* means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard. 


*Enclosure* means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device. 


*Exempt compound* means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s). 


*Facility maintenance* means the routine repair or refurbishing (including surface coating) of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the facility or that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity. It does not mean cleaning of equipment that is part of a large appliances coating operation. 


*Heat transfer coil* means a tube-and-fin assembly used in large appliance products to remove heat from a circulating fluid. 


*Large appliance part* means a component of a large appliance product except for the wider use parts excluded under § 63.4081(d)(1). 


*Large appliance product* means, but is not limited to, any of the following products (except as provided under § 63.4081(d)(3)) manufactured for household, recreational, institutional, commercial, or industrial use: 


(1) Cooking equipment (ovens, ranges, and microwave ovens but not including toasters, counter-top grills, and similar small products); 


(2) Refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerated cabinets and cases; 


(3) Laundry equipment (washers, dryers, drycleaning machines, and pressing machines); 


(4) Dishwashers, trash compactors, and water heaters; and 


(5) HVAC units, air-conditioning (except motor vehicle) units, air-conditioning and heating combination units, comfort furnaces, and electric heat pumps.


Specifically excluded are heat transfer coils and large commercial and industrial chillers. 


*Large commercial and industrial chillers* means, for the purposes of this subpart, equipment designed to produce chilled water for use in commercial or industrial HVAC systems. 


*Manufacturer's formulation data* means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in § 63.4141. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content. 


*Mass fraction of organic HAP* means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg organic HAP per kg of material. 


*Month* means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period. 


*Organic HAP content* means the mass of organic HAP per volume of coating solids for a coating, calculated using Equation 2 of § 63.4141. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt. 


*Permanent total enclosure (PTE)* means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device. 


*Protective oil* means an organic material that is applied to a substrate for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oils includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils. 


*Research or laboratory facility* means a facility whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a de minimis manner. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Startup, initial* means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility. 


*Surface preparation* means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate including use of cleaning material to remove dried coating which is sometimes called “depainting.” 


*Temporary total enclosure* means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51. 


*Thinner* means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier. 


*Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)* means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC. 


*Uncontrolled coating operation* means a coating operation from which no organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device. 


*Volatile organic compound (VOC)* means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s). 


*Volume fraction of coating solids* means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating, expressed as liters of coating solids per liter of coating. 


*Wastewater* means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged. 



---

[N] [67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9618, Mar. 15, 2019]





