# ยง 681.32   The HEAL lender or holder insurance contract.

(a)(1) If the Secretary approves an application to be a HEAL lender or holder, the Secretary and the lender or holder must sign an insurance contract. Under this contract, the lender or holder agrees to comply with all the laws, regulations, and other requirements applicable to its participation in the HEAL program and the Secretary agrees to insure each eligible HEAL loan held by the lender or holder against the borrower's default, death, total and permanent disability, bankruptcy under chapter 11 or 13 of the Bankruptcy Act, or bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act when the borrower files a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the HEAL loan. The Secretary's insurance covers 100 percent of the lender's or holder's losses on both unpaid principal and interest, except to the extent that a borrower may have a defense on the loan other than infancy.


(2) HEAL insurance, however, is not unconditional. The Secretary issues HEAL insurance on the implied representations of the lender that all the requirements for the initial insurability of the loan have been met. HEAL insurance is further conditioned upon compliance by the holder of the loan with the HEAL statute and regulations, the lender's or holder's insurance contract, and its own loan management procedures set forth in writing pursuant to ยง 681.31(c). The contract may contain a limit on the duration of the contract and the number or amount of HEAL loans a lender may make or hold. Each HEAL lender has either a standard insurance contract or a comprehensive insurance contract with the Secretary, as described below.


(b) *Standard insurance contract.* A lender with a standard insurance contract must submit to the Secretary a borrower's loan application for HEAL insurance on each loan that the lender determines to be eligible. The Secretary notifies the lender whether the loan is or is not insurable, the amount of the insurance, and the expiration date of the insurance commitment. A loan which has been disbursed under a standard contract of insurance prior to the Secretary's approval of the application is considered not to have been insured.


(c)(1) *Comprehensive insurance contract.* A lender with a comprehensive insurance contract may disburse a loan without submitting an individual borrower's loan application to the Secretary for approval. All eligible loans made by a lender with this type of contract are insured immediately upon disbursement.


(2) The Secretary will revoke the comprehensive contract of any lender who utilizes procedures which are inconsistent with the HEAL statute and regulations, the lender's insurance contract, or its own loan management procedures set forth in writing pursuant to ยง 681.31(c), and require that such lenders disburse HEAL loans only under a standard contract. When the Secretary determines that the lender is in compliance with the HEAL statute and regulations and its own loan management procedures set forth in writing pursuant to ยง 681.31(c), the lender may reapply for a comprehensive contract.


(3) In providing comprehensive contracts, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible lenders that:


(i) Make loans to students at interest rates below the rates prevailing during the period involved; or


(ii) Make loans under terms that are otherwise favorable to the student relative to the terms under which eligible lenders are generally making loans during the period involved.


