# § 4010.2   Definitions.

The following terms are defined in § 4001.2 of this chapter: benefit liabilities, Code, contributing sponsor, controlled group, earliest retirement age at valuation date, ERISA, expected retirement age (XRA), fair market value, IRS, PBGC, person, plan, plan year, unreduced retirement age (URA), ultimate parent, and U.S. entity. 


In addition, for purposes of this part: 


*At-risk status* means, with respect to a plan for a plan year, at-risk status as defined in ERISA section 303(i)(4) and Code section 430(i)(4).


*Exempt entity* means a person that does not have to file information and about which information does not have to be filed, as described in § 4010.4(c). 


*Exempt plan* means a plan about which actuarial information does not have to be filed, as described in § 4010.8(c). 


*Fair market value of the plan's assets* means the fair market value of the plan's assets at the end of the plan year ending within the filer's information year (determined without regard to any contributions receivable). 


*Filer* means a person who is required to file reports, as described in § 4010.4. 


*Fiscal year* means, with respect to a person, the person's annual accounting period or, if the person has not adopted a closing date, the calendar year.


*Foreign entity* means a member of a controlled group that —


(1) Is not a contributing sponsor of a plan;


(2) Is not organized under the laws of (or, if an individual, is not a domiciliary of) any state (as defined in section 3(10) of ERISA); and


(3) For the fiscal year that includes the information year, meets one of the following tests—


(i) Is not required to file any United States Federal income tax form;


(ii) Has no income reportable on any United States Federal income tax form other than passive income not exceeding $1,000; or


(iii) Does not own substantial assets in the United States (disregarding stock of a member of the plan's controlled group) and is not required to file any quarterly United States income tax returns for employee withholding.


*4010 funding target attainment percentage* means, with respect to a plan for a plan year, the percentage as determined under § 4010.4(b) for the plan year.


*Funding target* means, with respect to a plan for a plan year, the funding target as provided under ERISA section 303(d)(1) and Code section 430(d)(1) determined as of the valuation date for the plan year.


*Information year* means the information year determined under § 4010.5.


*Valuation date* means, with respect to a plan for a plan year, the valuation date as determined under ERISA section 303(g)(2) and Code section 430(g)(2).



---

[N] [61 FR 34022, July 1, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 11029, Mar. 16, 2009; 81 FR 15439, Mar. 23, 2016; 85 FR 6059, Feb. 4, 2020]




