# § 618.8010   Related services authorization process.

(a) *Authorities.* System banks and associations may only offer related services that meet the criteria specified in this regulation and are authorized by the FCA. 


(b) *New service proposals.* (1) A System bank or association that proposes or intends to offer a related service that the FCA has not previously authorized must submit to the FCA, in writing, a proposal that includes a description of the service, a statement of how it meets the regulatory definition of “related services” in § 618.8000(b), and the risk analysis cited in § 618.8020(b)(3). The FCA will evaluate the proposed service based on the information submitted, and may also consider whether there are extenuating circumstances or other compelling reasons that justify the proposed service or support a determination that the service is not authorized. This evaluation will focus primarily on Systemwide issues rather than on institution or program-specific factors. 


(2) When authorizing a proposed related service, at its discretion, the FCA may impose special conditions or limitations on any related service or program to offer a related service. 


(3) At its discretion the FCA may, at any time during its evaluation of a proposed related service, publish the proposed related service in the _Federal Register_ for public comment. 


(4) Within 60 days of the FCA receiving a completed proposal, including any additional information the FCA may require, the FCA will act on the request to authorize a new service. The FCA shall approve the request, deny the request, or publish the service for public comment in the _Federal Register._ For good cause and prior to the expiration of the 60 days, the FCA may extend this period for an additional 60 days. 


(5) Within the time period established in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the FCA shall notify the requesting institution of its actions. Following notification of the requesting institution, the FCA will notify all System banks and associations of its determination on the proposed service by bookletter or other means. If a service is not authorized, the reasons for denial will be included in the notifications to the System and the requesting institution. 


(c) *Previously authorized services.* (1) For related services that have been authorized by the FCA, any System bank or association may develop a program and subsequently offer the related service to eligible recipients, subject to any special conditions or institutional limits placed by the FCA. These programs will be subject to review and evaluation during the examination and enforcement process. 


(2) The FCA shall make available to all System banks and associations a list of such related services (“related services list” or “list”) and will update the list in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The list will contain the following: 


(i) A description of each related service; and 


(ii) The types of institutions authorized to offer each type of related service; 


(iii) Identification of any special conditions on how the related service may be offered. The special conditions and description of the service will be fully detailed in FCA's notice to System institutions under paragraph (b)(5) of this section. 


(3) At least 10 business days prior to implementing a related service program already on the list, the System bank or association must notify the FCA Office of Examination field office responsible for examining that institution in writing and provide it with a description of the proposed related service program. 




