# § 363.37   How do I purchase and make payment for eligible Treasury securities through my TreasuryDirect ® account?

(a) *Online purchase.* Purchases of eligible Treasury securities through your TreasuryDirect account must be made online.


(b) *Payment for savings bonds and marketable Treasury securities.* You can pay for eligible savings bonds and marketable Treasury securities by either a debit from your designated account at a United States financial institution using the ACH method, or by using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. You can pay for savings bonds automatically using the redemption proceeds of your payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through the payroll savings plan.


(c) *Payment for zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.* You can pay for a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by:


(1) A credit from your financial institution or employer using the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® account;


(2) A debit from your designated account at a financial institution using the ACH method, limited to $1000 or less per transaction; or


(3) Using the proceeds of maturing securities held in your TreasuryDirect® account.


(d) *Payment for a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.* The only method available to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is to arrange for your employer or financial institution to send a credit by the ACH method to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in your TreasuryDirect® account.



---

[N] [70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]




