# § 960.601   Definitions.

(a) *Definitions found elsewhere*—(1) *General definitions.* The following terms are defined in part 5, subpart A of this title: *public housing, public housing agency* (PHA). 


(2) *Definitions concerning income and rent.* The following terms are defined in part 5, subpart F of this title: *economic self-sufficiency program, work activities.*

(b) *Other definitions.* In addition to the definitions in paragraph (a) of this section, the following definitions apply: 


*Community service.* The performance of voluntary work or duties that are a public benefit, and that serve to improve the quality of life, enhance resident self-sufficiency, or increase resident self-responsibility in the community. Community service is not employment and may not include political activities. 




*Exempt individual.* An adult who:


(1) Is 62 years or older;


(2)(i) Is a blind or disabled individual, as defined under Section 216(i)(1) or Section 1614 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 416(i)(1); 1382c), and who certifies that because of this disability she or he is unable to comply with the service provisions of this subpart, or


(ii) Is a primary caretaker of such individual;


(3) Is engaged in work activities;


(4) Meets the requirements for being exempted from having to engage in a work activity under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) or under any other welfare program of the State in which the PHA is located, including a State-administered welfare-to-work program;


(5) Is a member of a family receiving assistance, benefits or services under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) or under any other welfare program of the State in which the PHA is located, including a State-administered welfare-to-work program, and has not been found by the State or other administering entity to be in noncompliance with such a program; or


(6) is a member of a non-public housing over-income family. 


*Service requirement.* The obligation of each adult resident, other than an exempt individual, to perform community service or participate in an economic-self sufficiency program required in accordance with § 960.603. 



---

[N] [65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 9675, Feb. 14, 2023]






