# § 501.31   Written comments.

(a) *New facilities.* Except as may be provided elsewhere in these regulations, OFE shall provide a period of at least forty-five (45) days, commencing with publication of the Notice of Acceptance of Petition, of in the case of certification exemptions, Notice of Acceptance and availability of Certification, in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with § 501.63(a), for submission of written comments concerning a petition for an exemption. Written comments shall be made in accordance with § 501.7. 


(b) *Existing facilities.* Except as may be provided elsewhere in these regulations, OFE shall provide a period of at least 45 days for submission of written comments concerning a proposed prohibition rule or order or a petition for a permit. In the case of a proposed prohibition rule or order issued to an existing electing powerplant, OFE shall also provide for a period of at least 45 days for submission of written comments concerning a Tentative Staff Analysis. This period shall commence on the day after publication of the Notice of Availability of the Tentative Staff Analysis in the _Federal Register._ In the case of prohibition order proceedings for certifying powerplants under section 301 of FUA, as amended, OFE shall provide a period of at least 45 days, beginning the day after the Notice of Acceptance of certification is published, for submission of written comments concerning the certification and OFE's proposed prohibition order, and requests for public hearings. Prohibition order proceedings under section 301, as amended by OBRA, will have only one period of 45 days, since no Tentative Staff Analysis will be prepared. The comment period may be extended by OFE in accordance with § 501.7. See § 501.52(b) of this part for further information with respect to the comment period. Written comments shall be filed in accordance with § 501.7.



---

[N] [46 FR 59889, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 50848, Nov. 10, 1982; 54 FR 52892, Dec. 22, 1989]




