# ยง 145.4   General provisions for all participants.

(a) Records of purchases and sales and the identity of products handled shall be maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Official State Agency. 


(b) Products, records of sales and purchase of products, and material used to advertise products shall be subject to inspection by the Official State Agency at any time. 


(c) Advertising must be in accordance with the Plan, and applicable rules and regulations of the Official State Agency and the Federal Trade Commission. A participant advertising products as being of any official classification may include in his advertising reference to associated or franchised hatcheries only when such hatcheries produce the same kind of products of the same classification. 


(d) Except as provided by this paragraph, participants in the Plan may not buy or receive products for any purpose from nonparticipants unless they are part of an equivalent program, as determined by the Official State Agency. Participants in the Plan may buy or receive products from flocks that are neither participants nor part of an equivalent program, for use in breeding flocks or for experimental purposes, under the following conditions only:


(1) With the permission of the Official State Agency and the concurrence of the Service; and


(2) By segregation of all birds before introduction into the breeding flock. Upon reaching sexual maturity, the segregated birds must be tested and found negative for pullorum-typhoid and any other disease for which the flock into which the birds are being introduced holds a disease classification. The Official State Agency may require a second test at its discretion.


(e) Each participant shall be assigned a permanent approval number by the Service. This number, prefaced by the numerical code of the State, will be the official approval number of the participant and may be used on each certificate, invoice, shipping label, or other document used by the participant in the sale of his products. Each Official State Agency which requires an approval or permit number for out-of-State participants to ship into its State should honor this number. The approval number shall be withdrawn when the participant no longer qualifies for participation in the Plan.



---

[N] [36 FR 23112, Dec. 3, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 13706, May 24, 1973; 41 FR 48723, Nov. 5, 1976. Redesignated at 44 FR 61586, Oct. 26, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 21991, May 20, 1982; 48 FR 57473, Dec. 30, 1983; 57 FR 57341, Dec. 4, 1992; 83 FR 28352, June 19, 2018] 




