# ยง 2700.3   Functions.

(a) *Director.* Provides executive direction for OIRM. Develops and recommends Departmental information resources management principles, policies, and objectives; develops and disseminates Departmental information resources management standards, guidelines, rules, and regulations necessary to implement approved principles, policies, and programs; designs, develops, implements, and revises systems, processes, work methods, and techniques to improve the management of information resources and the operational effectiveness of the Department; provides telecommunications and automated data processing services to the Department's agencies and staff offices.


(b) *Deputy Director.* Assists the Director and, in the absence of the Director, serves as the Acting Director.


(c) *Administrative Management Staff.* Provides support for agency management regarding budget, accounting, personnel, and other administrative matters.


(d) *Planning Division.* Defines, develops, guides, and administers the Department's long-range planning process for information resources.


(e) *Information Management Division.* Develops policy, standards and guidelines for collection, protection, access, use and management of information.


(f) *Review and Evaluation Division.* Reviews and evaluates information resources programs and activities of Department agencies and staff offices for conformance with plans, policies, and standards.


(g) *Agency Technical Services Division.* Advises and consults with and assists Department agencies and staff offices on activities related to the development and implementation of automated information systems.


(h) *Operations and Telecommunications Division.* Coordinates the development and implementation of programs for ADP and telecommunications resource planning within Departmental computer centers and the National Finance Center, and for the acquisition and use of Department-wide telecommunications facilities and services.


(i) *Departmental Computer Centers.* The following centers provide ADP facilities and services to agencies and staff offices of the Department.


(1) Washington Computer Center, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. S-107-South, Washington, DC 20250.


(2) Fort Collins Computer Center, 3825 E. Mulberry Street (P.O. Box 1206), Fort Collins, CO 80524.


(3) Kansas City Computer Center, 8930 Ward Parkway (P.O. Box 205), Kansas City, MO 64141. 




