# § 130.330   SBDC services and restrictions on service.

(a) *Services.* The SBDC network, to the extent practicable, must provide prospective entrepreneurs and existing small businesses, known as clients, with counseling, access to training, and specialized services. The SBDC must create counseling records for clients when required by the cooperative agreement. The services provided must relate to the formation, financing, management, and operation of small business enterprises. The network must provide services that meet local needs as determined through periodic needs assessments, which are continually improved to keep pace with changing local small business needs. It is the responsibility of the recipient organization to change local SBDC service centers, as necessary, to meet the needs of the communities it serves in accordance with §§ 130.310 and 130.620. See section 21(c)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(c)(36)) for the full list of compulsory services. To the extent possible, SBDCs will work in collaboration with other Federal, state, tribal, and local government programs that assist small businesses and will coordinate and cooperate, to the extent practicable, with other local public and private providers of small business assistance. An SBDC Lead Center should use and compensate qualified small business vendors as one of its resources.


(b) *Access to Capital.* (1) SBDCs must provide counseling services that increase a small business concern's access to capital, such as business plan development, financial statement preparation and analysis, and cash flow preparation and analysis.


(2) SBDCs may provide assistance and guidance with the necessary documentation required for applications for capital assistance; including assistance for SBA loan products and services, including small dollar loans, free of charge as stated in § 130.470.


(3) SBDCs should prepare their clients to represent themselves to lending institutions. SBDCs may attend meetings with lenders to assist clients in preparing financial packages; however, SBDCs may not attest to a client's readiness or creditworthiness to the lending institution either verbally or in writing.


(4) SBDCs may participate on boards and panels of financial institutions and with outside organizations but may not be involved in any final credit decisions involving SBDC clients or in making or servicing loans.


(5) With respect to SBA loan guaranty programs, SBDCs may accompany an applicant organization appearing before SBA or a lender but may not advocate for, promote, recommend approval or otherwise attempt in any manner to influence SBA or a lender to provide financial assistance to any of its clients.




(c) *Special emphasis initiatives.* Periodically, SBA may identify, and include in the cooperative agreement, portions of the general population to be targeted for assistance by SBDCs and specific focus areas including, but not limited to: base closure assistance; cybersecurity and preparedness; employee ownership program; and intellectual property protections. (Refer to current cooperative agreement.)


(d) *Portable assistance.* The current cooperative agreement is a startup and sustainability non-matching program to be conducted by eligible SBDCs in communities that are economically challenged as a result of a business or government facility downsizing or closing, which has resulted in the loss of jobs or small business instability. The funds will be used for small business development center personnel expenses and related small business programs and services.



---

[N] [60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 76642, 76643, Nov. 7, 2023]






