# § 92.16   Written response.

(a) *Form and contents.* (1) The written response submitted by a person pursuant to § 92.15(d)(2) must provide the following:


(i) A reference to and specific identification of the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;


(ii) The full name of the person against whom the Initial Notice of Assessment has been made;


(iii) If the respondent is not a natural person, the name and title of the officer authorized to act on behalf of the respondent; and


(iv) If a representative of the person named in the Initial Notice of Assessment is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.


(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of § 92.13 set forth in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any violation not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a violation is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the allegation is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the respondent is not the person responsible for the alleged violation, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the examining and assessing officials to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.


(b) *Time.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this section must be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.


(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to § 92.15(d)(4), the written response must be submitted not later than 20 days after the date of the United States Mint's response to the request.


(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment is issued. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next business day after that date.


(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date.


(4) The examining official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for up to ten days for good cause shown. Requests for extensions beyond ten days must be approved by the assessing official and must be based on good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause.


(c) *Filing.* The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. A written response transmitted by means other than United States mail will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment.


(d) *Review and Recommendation.* The examining official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response, any other documents filed by the respondent pursuant to this subpart, and the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter. If the respondent waives the right to submit a written response in accordance with § 92.15(d)(1), or declines to submit a written response by the end of the 30-day response period, the examining official will fully consider the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter.


(1) In fully considering the matter, the examining official will not consider any evidence introduced into the record by the United States Mint after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment unless and until the respondent has been notified that such additional evidence will be considered, and has had an opportunity to request, review and comment on such evidence.


(2) The examining official will prepare a concise report, addressed to the assessing official, which will contain the following:


(i) The entire administrative record on the matter, including all information provided in or with a written response timely filed by the respondent and any additional information provided pursuant to § 92.15(e)(2), as well as all evidence upon which the Initial Notice of Assessment was based, and any additional evidence as provided for in § 92.16(d)(1).


(ii) A finding, based on the preponderance of the evidence, as to each alleged violation specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment;


(iii) For each violation that the examining official determines to have occurred, a recommendation as to the appropriate amount of a civil penalty to be imposed which, upon additional consideration of the evidence, may be the same as, more than, or less than the amount initially proposed by the examining official pursuant to § 92.15. In making this recommendation, the examining official will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the following:


(A) The scope of the misuse;


(B) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;


(C) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;


(D) The circumstances of the misuse;


(E) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and


(F) The repeated nature of the misuse.


(iv) If the examining official determines that a violation has occurred, a proposed Final Notice of Assessment that incorporates his or her findings and recommendations.


(v) Any additional information or considerations that the assessing officer should consider in a decision whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under § 92.17.




