# § 1.6050I-2   Returns relating to cash in excess of $10,000 received as bail by court clerks.

(a) *Reporting requirement.* Any clerk of a Federal or State court who receives more than $10,000 in cash as bail for any individual charged with a specified criminal offense must make a return of information with respect to that cash receipt. For purposes of this section, a clerk is the clerk's office or the office, department, division, branch, or unit of the court that is authorized to receive bail. If someone other than a clerk receives bail on behalf of a clerk, the clerk is treated as receiving the bail for purposes of this paragraph (a).


(b) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—


*Cash* means—


(1) The coin and currency of the United States, or of any other country, that circulate in and are customarily used and accepted as money in the country in which issued; and


(2) A cashier's check (by whatever name called, including treasurer's check and bank check), bank draft, traveler's check, or money order having a face amount of not more than $10,000.


*Specified criminal offense* means—


(1) A Federal criminal offense involving a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21 of the United States Code), provided the offense is described in Part D of Subchapter I or Subchapter II of title 21 of the United States Code;


(2) Racketeering (as defined in section 1951, 1952, or 1955 of title 18 of the United States Code);


(3) Money laundering (as defined in section 1956 or 1957 of title 18 of the United States Code); and


(4) Any State criminal offense substantially similar to an offense described in this paragraph (b).






(c) *Time, form, and manner of reporting*—(1) *Time of reporting*—(i) *In general.* The information return required by this section must be filed in accordance with the Form 8300 instructions and related publications by the 15th day after the date the cash bail is received.

 








(ii) *Multiple payments.* If multiple payments are made to satisfy bail reportable under this section and the initial payment does not exceed $10,000, the initial payment and subsequent payments must be aggregated and the information return required by this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service by the 15th day after receipt of the payment that causes the aggregate amount to exceed $10,000. However, if payments are made to satisfy separate bail requirements, no aggregation is required. Thus, if in Month 1 a clerk receives $6,000 in bail for an individual charged with a specified criminal offense and later, in Month 2, receives $7,000 in bail for that same individual charged with another specified criminal offense, no aggregation is required.


(2) *Form of reporting.* The return of information required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made on Form 8300 and must contain the following information—


(i) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the individual charged with the specified criminal offense;


(ii) The name, address, and TIN of each person posting the bail (payor of bail), other than a person posting bail who is licensed as a bail bondsman in the jurisdiction in which the bail is received;


(iii) The amount of cash received;


(iv) The date the cash was received; and


(v) Any other information required by Form 8300 or its instructions.






(3) *Manner of reporting*—

(i) *Where to file.* Returns required by this section must be filed in accordance with the Form 8300 instructions and related publications. A copy of the information return required to be filed under this section must be retained for five years from the date of filing.




(ii) *Verification of identity.* A clerk required to make an information return under this section must, in accordance with § 1.6050I-1(e)(3)(ii), verify the identity of each payor of bail listed in the return.


(d) *Requirement to furnish statements*—(1) *Information to Federal prosecutors*—(i) *In general.* A clerk required to make an information return under this section must furnish a written statement to the United States Attorney for the jurisdiction in which the individual charged with the specified crime resides and the United States Attorney for the jurisdiction in which the specified criminal offense occurred (applicable United States Attorney(s)). The written statement must be filed with the applicable United States Attorney(s) by the 15th day after the date the cash bail is received.


(ii) *Form of statement.* The written statement must include the information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The requirement of this paragraph (d)(1)(ii) will be satisfied if the clerk provides to the applicable United States Attorney(s) a copy of the Form 8300 that is filed with the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to this section.


(2) *Information to payors of bail*—(i) *In general.* A clerk required to make an information return under this section must furnish a written statement to each payor of bail whose name is set forth in a return required by this section. A statement required under this paragraph (d)(2) must be furnished to a payor of bail on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the cash is received. A statement will be considered furnished to a payor of bail if it is mailed to the payor's last known address.


(ii) *Form of statement.* The statement required by this paragraph (d)(2) need not follow any particular format, but must contain the following information—


(A) The name and address of the clerk's office making the return;


(B) The aggregate amount of reportable cash received during the calendar year by the clerk who made the information return required by this section in all cash transactions relating to the payor of bail; and


(C) A legend stating that the information contained in the statement has been reported to the Internal Revenue Service and the applicable United States Attorney(s).


(iii) *Aggregate amount.* The requirement of furnishing the aggregate amount in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section will be satisfied if the clerk provides to the payor of bail either a single written statement listing the aggregate amount, or a copy of each Form 8300 relating to that payor of bail.


(e) *Cross-reference to penalty provisions.* See sections 6721 through 6724 for penalties relating to the failure to comply with the provisions of this section.


(f) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply for returns required to be filed during calendar years beginning after December 31, 2023.





---

[N] [T.D. 8652, 61 FR 7, Jan. 2, 1996, as amended by T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11764, Feb. 23, 2023]










