# ยง 92.222   Reduction of matching contribution requirement.

(a) *Reduction for fiscal distress.* HUD will determine match reductions annually. 


(1) *Distress criteria for local government participating jurisdictions.* If a local government participating jurisdiction satisfies both of the distress factors in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, it is in severe fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 100% for the period specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If a local government participating jurisdiction satisfies either distress factor in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, it is in fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 50 percent, for the period specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(i) *Poverty rate.* The average poverty rate in the participating jurisdiction was equal to or greater than 125 percent of the average national poverty rate during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information of the Bureau of the Census. 


(ii) *Per capita income.* The average per capita income in the participating jurisdiction was less than 75 percent of the average national per capita income, during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information from the Bureau of the Census. 


(2) *Distress criteria for participating jurisdictions that are States.* If a State satisfies at least 2 of the 3 distress factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, it is in severe fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 100% for the period specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If a State satisfies any 1 of the 3 distress factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, it is in fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 50 percent, for the period specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(i) *Poverty rate.* The average poverty rate in the State was equal to or greater than 125 percent of the average national poverty rate during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information from the Bureau of the Census. 


(ii) *Per capita income.* The average per capita income in the State was less than 75 percent of the average national per capita income, during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information from the Bureau of the Census. 


(iii) *Personal income growth.* The average personal income growth rate in the State over the most recent four quarters for which the data are available was less than 75 percent of the average national personal income growth rate during that period, as determined according to information from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. 


(3) *Period of match reduction for severe fiscal distress.* A 100% match reduction is effective for the fiscal year in which the severe fiscal distress determination is made and for the following fiscal year. 


(4) *Period of match reduction for fiscal distress.* A 50% match reduction is effective for the fiscal year in which the fiscal distress determination is made and for the following fiscal year, except that if a severe fiscal distress determination is published in that following fiscal year, the participating jurisdiction starts a new two-year match reduction period in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. 


(b) Reduction of match for participating jurisdictions in disaster areas. If a participating jurisdiction is located in an area in which a declaration of major disaster is made pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121-5206), the participating jurisdiction may request a reduction of its matching requirement.


(1) In determining whether to grant the request and the amount and duration of the reduction, if any, HUD must consider the fiscal impact of the disaster on the participating jurisdiction.


(i) For a local participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field office may reduce the matching requirement specified in ยง 92.218 by up to 100 percent for the fiscal year in which the declaration of major disaster is made and the following fiscal year.


(ii) For a State participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field office may reduce the matching requirement specified in ยง 92.218, by up to 100 percent for the fiscal year in which the declaration of major disaster is made and the following fiscal year with respect to any HOME funds expended in an area to which the declaration of a major disaster applies.


(2) At its discretion and upon request of the participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field Office may extend the reduction for an additional year.



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44670, July 24, 2013]




