# § 52.1683   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) The State of New York has certified to the satisfaction of the EPA that no sources are located in the nonattainment area of the State which are covered by the following Control Techniques Guidelines:


(1) Natural Gas/Gasoline Processing Plants.


(2) Air Oxidation Processes at Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industries.


(3) Manufacture of High-Density Polyethylene, Polypropylene, and Polystyrene Resins.


(b) The State of New York has certified to the satisfaction of the EPA that no sources are located in the State which are covered by the following Control Techniques Guidelines:


(1) Fiberglass Boat Manufacturing Materials.


(2) Manufacture of Vegetable Oils.


(3) Application of Agricultural Pesticides.


(c)-(e) [Reserved]


(f)(1) EPA is determining that the 1-hour ozone nonattainment areas in New York listed below have attained the 1-hour ozone standard on the date listed and that the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) (contingency measures) of the Clean Air Act do not apply to these areas.


(i) Albany-Schenectady-Troy (consisting of Albany, Greene, Montgomery, Rensselaer, Saratoga, and Schenectady Counties) as of January 6, 2010.


(ii) Buffalo-Niagara Falls (consisting of Erie and Niagara Counties) as of January 6, 2010.


(iii) Essex County as of January 6, 2010.


(iv) Jefferson County, as of January 6, 2010.


(v) Poughkeepsie (consisting of Dutchess, and Putnam Counties and northern Orange County) as of January 6, 2010.


(2) EPA is determining that the 8-hour ozone nonattainment areas in New York listed below have attained the 8-hour ozone standard on the date listed. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for each of these areas as long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 8-hour ozone standard. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored this determination shall no longer apply in the area where the violation occurs.


(i) Albany-Schenectady-Troy (consisting of Albany, Greene, Montgomery, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schenectady, and Schoharie Counties) as of March 25, 2008.


(ii) Jefferson County, as of March 25, 2008.


(iii) Rochester (consisting of Genesee, Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, Orleans and Wayne Counties) as of March 25, 2008.


(iv) Buffalo-Niagara Falls (consisting of Erie and Niagara Counties) as of January 6, 2010.


(v) Jamestown (consisting of Chautauqua County) as of June 3, 2016.


(vi) Poughkeepsie (consisting of Dutchess, Orange and Putnam Counties) as of January 6, 2010.


(vii) Essex County (consisting of Whiteface Mountain) as of January 6, 2010.


(viii) New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, eight-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area (consisting of the Bronx, Kings, Nassau, New York, Queens, Richmond, Rockland, Suffolk and Westchester Counties) as of June 15, 2010 and data showing the area continued to attain through 2011.


(g) EPA approves as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan, the Stage II gasoline vapor recovery comparability plan for upstate portions of New York State submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on April 18, 2000.


(h)(1) The 1990 base year emission inventory as revised on February 2, 1999 (Volatile organic compounds (VOC), Nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) and Carbon monoxide (CO) for areas designated nonattainment for ozone since 1991 in New York) is approved. 


(2) The 1996 and 1999 ozone projection year emission inventories included in New York's February 2, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area are approved. 


(3) [Reserved] 


(4) The photochemical assessment monitoring stations network included in New York's February 2, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision is approved. 


(5) The demonstration that emissions from growth in vehicle miles traveled will not increase total motor vehicle emissions and, therefore, offsetting measures are not necessary, which was included in New York's February 2, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area is approved. 


(6) The enforceable commitments to: participate in the consultative process to address regional transport; adopt additional control measures as necessary to attain the ozone standard, meeting rate of progress requirements, and eliminating significant contribution to nonattainment downwind; identify any reductions that are needed from upwind areas for the area to meet the ozone standard, included in New York's February 2, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area are approved. 


(7) The 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan and the 9 Percent Reasonable Further Progress Plan included in the New York's February 2, 1999 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area are approved.


(i)(1) The 2002, 2005 and 2007 ozone projection year emission inventories included in New York's November 27, 1998 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area are approved. 


(2) The Reasonable Further Progress Plans for milestone years 2002, 2005 and 2007 included in the New York's November 27, 1998 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area are approved. 


(3) The contingency measures included in the New York's November 27, 1998 State Implementation Plan revision for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area necessary to fulfill the RFP and attainment requirement of section 172(c)(9) of the CAA are approved. 


(4) [Reserved] 


(5) The Reasonably Available Control Measure Analysis for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area included in New York's October 1, 2001 State Implementation Plan revision is approved. 


(6) The revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by New York on November 27, 1998, April 15, 1999, and April 18, 2000, are approved. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the CAA for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island severe ozone nonattainment area. The revisions establish an attainment date of November 15, 2007, for the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island ozone nonattainment area. The April 18, 2000, revision includes the following enforceable commitments for future actions associated with attainment of the 1-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard: 


(i) Adopt additional control measures by October 31, 2001, to meet that level of reductions identified by EPA for attainment of the 1-hour ozone standard. 


(ii) Work through the Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) to develop a regional strategy regarding the measures necessary to meet the additional reductions identified by EPA. 


(iii) Adopt and submit by October 31, 2001 intrastate measures for the emission reductions (Backstop) in the event the OTC process does not recommend measures that produce emission reductions. 


(iv) Submit revised State Implementation Plan and motor vehicle emissions budget by October 31, 2001 if additional adopted measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory. 


(j)(1) The 1990 and 2007 conformity emission budgets for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area contained in New York's January 29, 2003 SIP revision, amended by New York's June 29, 2003 submittal and January 18, 2005 comment letter.


(2) The revised commitment to perform a mid-course review and submit the results by December 31, 2004 included in the January 29, 2003 SIP revision is approved.


(k)(1) The September 1, 2006 New York reasonably available control technology (RACT) analysis plan submittal, supplemented on February 8, 2008 and September 16, 2008, which applies to the entire State and to the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT and the Poughkeepsie 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment areas is conditionally approved.


(2) The moderate area reasonably available control measure (RACM) analysis for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area as presented in the February 8, 2008 “New York SIP for Ozone—Attainment Demonstration for New York Metro Area” submittal is conditionally approved.


(l)(1) The following State Implementation Plan (SIP) elements are approved: The 2002 base year emissions inventory, the 2008 projection year emissions inventories, the 2008 motor vehicle emissions budgets used for planning purposes, the 2008 ozone reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, and the 2008 RFP Plan contingency measures as they apply to the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area. These elements are included in the package entitled “New York SIP for Ozone-Attainment Demonstration for New York Metro Area,” dated February 8, 2008 and supplemented on December 28, 2009 and January 26, 2011.


(2) The following SIP elements are approved: The 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Poughkeepsie 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area and the state-wide 2002 base year emissions inventory. These elements are included in a package entitled, “New York SIP for Ozone-Attainment Demonstration for Poughkeepsie, NY Area,” dated February 8, 2008 and supplemented on December 28, 2009 and January 26, 2011.


(m)(1) The 1997 8-hour ozone attainment demonstration for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area included in New York's February 8, 2008 State Implementation Plan revision is approved and satisfies the requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act.


(2) The 1997 8-hour ozone attainment demonstration for the Poughkeepsie nonattainment area included in New York's February 8, 2008 State Implementation Plan revision is approved and satisfies the requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act.


(n) Effective June 3, 2016, the EPA is determining that complete quality-assured and certified ozone monitoring data for 2012 to 2014 show the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT 1997 eight-hour ozone nonattainment area did not meet the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard. Therefore, the EPA is rescinding the clean data determination for the 1997 eight-hour ozone standard only. The prior determination (*see* paragraph (f)(2)(viii) of this section) is in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918. The prior determination suspended the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual eight-hour ozone NAAQS. This rescission of the clean data determination will result in a SIP Call for a new ozone attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard, for this area only. If the revised plan is approved by the EPA as demonstrating reasonable further progress and attainment for the more stringent 2008 NAAQS by the Moderate area attainment date, and is approved by the EPA as containing adequate contingency measures for the 2008 NAAQS, then the plan would be deemed to have also satisfied requirements of the SIP Call associated with violations for the 1997 NAAQS.


(o) The portion of the SIP submitted on April 4, 2013 addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS is disapproved.


(p)(1) The December 22, 2014 New York reasonably available control technology (RACT) analysis plan, as supplemented on September 6, 2017, submitted pursuant to the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS), which applies to the entire State, including the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (NY-NJ-CT) and the Jamestown 8-hour ozone marginal nonattainment areas, is conditionally approved as it applies to the Clean Air Act control techniques guidelines (CTG) requirements for major sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(2) The remainder of New York's December 22, 2014 RACT analysis plan, pursuant to the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS as applied to the entire State, including the New York portion of the NY-NJ-CT and the Jamestown 8-hour ozone marginal nonattainment areas, and as it applies to non-CTG major sources of VOCs and to major sources of oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_), is approved.


(3) The December 22, 2014 New York plan submittal providing a nonattainment new source review (NNSR) certification as sufficient for purposes of the state-wide 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS, including the New York portion of the NY-NJ-CT and the Jamestown 8-hour ozone nonattainment areas, is approved.


(q) EPA is determining that the Jamestown marginal nonattainment area (consisting of Chautauqua County) has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination (informally known as a Clean Data Determination) is based upon complete, quality assured, and certified ambient air monitoring data that show the Jamestown Area has monitored attainment of the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS for the 2012-2014 and 2015-2017 monitoring periods. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for this area as long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 8-hour ozone standard. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS is monitored in this area, this determination shall no longer apply.


(r) New York's Section 185 Equivalency Demonstration State Implementation Plan revision submittal on January 31, 2014, and supplemented on April 7, 2014, October 13, 2016, and April 3, 2018, for the use of the State of New York's Low Emissions Vehicle (LEV II) program as an alternative program to fulfill the Clean Air Act section 185 requirement for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area for the revoked 1979 1-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard is approved.


(s) *Determination of attainment by the attainment date.* Effective August 30, 2021. On February 4, 2019, the EPA determined that certain areas in New York attained the revoked 1997 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2010. The determination was based upon complete quality-assured and certified data for the 3 calendar years 2007-2009 for the following areas:


(1) Buffalo-Niagara Falls, NY (consisting of Erie and Niagara Counties).


(2) Jamestown, NY (consisting of Chautauqua County).


(3) Jefferson County, NY (consisting of Jefferson County).


(4) Poughkeepsie, NY (consisting of Dutchess, Orange and Putnam Counties).


(t) The 1997 8-hour ozone attainment demonstration for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area included in New York's November 13, 2017 State Implementation Plan revision is approved and satisfies the requirements of section 182 of the Clean Air Act.


(u) The SIP revision submitted on September 25, 2018, addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) (prongs 1 and 2) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS is disapproved. These requirements are being addressed by § 52.1684.


(v) The portion of the SIP revision submitted on September 25, 2018, addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) (prongs 1 and 2) for the 2015 ozone NAAQS is disapproved.


(w)(1) The January 29, 2021, New York Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) analysis plan, submitted pursuant to the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) Serious classification, which applies to the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (NY-NJ-CT) nonattainment area is approved as it continues to meet the RACT requirements for the two precursors for ground-level ozone, *i.e.,* oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), set forth by the Clean Air Act (CAA or Act) with respect to the 2008 8-hour ozone standard.


(2) The January 29, 2021, New York Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) analysis plan, submitted pursuant to the 2015 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) Serious classification, which applies to the entire State, including the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (NY-NJ-CT) nonattainment area is approved as it applies to the Clean Air Act control technique guidelines (CTG) requirements for major sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(3) The reminder of New York's January 29, 2021, RACT analysis plan, pursuant to the 2015 8-hour ozone NAAQS as applied to the entire State, including the New York portion of the NY-NJ-CT moderate nonattainment area, and as it applies to non-CTG major sources of VOCs and to major sources of oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_), is approved.


(4) The November 29, 2021, New York plan submittal providing a certification that the State has satisfied the requirements for an ozone nonattainment new source review program as sufficient for purposes of the State-wide 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS Serious classification, including the New York portion of the NY-NJ-CT nonattainment area, is approved.


(5) The Reasonable Further Progress Plans for milestone years 2017 and 2020 pursuant to the 2008 8-hour Ozone NAAQS, included in New York's November 13, 2017, and November 29, 2021, State Implementation Plan submittals for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area are approved.


(6) The 2017 and 2020 motor vehicle emission budgets used for transportation conformity purposes for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area contained in New York's November 13, 2017, and November 29, 2021, SIP submittals are approved.


(7) New York's certification that the State has satisfied the requirements for Clean Fuel for Fleets under the Clean Air Act for the 2008 8-hour Ozone NAAQS, included in the State's November 29, 2021, SIP submittal for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island nonattainment area is approved.



---

[N] [56 FR 41463, Aug. 21, 1991]


