# ยง 385.18   Public outreach.

(a) *Goals.* (1) The goal of public outreach is to open and maintain channels of communication with the public throughout the implementation process for the Plan in order to: 


(i) Provide information about proposed activities; 


(ii) Make the public's desires, needs, and concerns known to decision-makers before decisions are reached; and 


(iii) Consider and respond to the public's views in reaching decisions. 


(2) In carrying out implementation activities for the Plan, the Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall undertake outreach activities to: 


(i) Increase general public awareness for the Plan; 


(ii) Involve interested groups and interested communities in the decision-making process and incorporate public values into decisions; 


(iii) Better serve and involve minority communities and traditionally under served communities, persons with limited English proficiency, and socially and economically disadvantaged individuals; 


(iv) Improve the substantive quality of decisions as a result of public participation; and 


(v) Reduce conflict among interested and affected parties by building agreement or consensus on solutions to emerging issues. 


(b) *General requirements.* (1) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall provide a transparent, publicly accessible process through which scientific and technical information is used in the development of policy decisions throughout the implementation process for the Plan. 


(2) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall develop and conduct outreach activities for project or program-level activities in order to provide information to the public and to provide opportunities for involvement by the public. 


(3) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall monitor the effectiveness of outreach activities throughout the implementation process. 


(4) Project Management Plans and Program Management Plans shall include information concerning any outreach activities to be undertaken during the implementation of the project or activity. 


(5) Project Delivery Team meetings and RECOVER meetings shall be open to attendance by the public. The public shall be notified in advance of these meetings through e-mail, posting on a web site, or other appropriate means. The public shall be provided with an opportunity to comment at such meetings. 


(6) Public meetings and workshops shall be held at such times and locations as to facilitate participation by the public. 


(7) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on draft documents. 


(c) *Outreach to socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and communities.* (1) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall develop and conduct public outreach activities to ensure that socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including individuals with limited English proficiency, and communities are provided opportunities to review and comment during implementation of the Plan. 


(2) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall monitor the effectiveness of outreach activities conducted to ensure that socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and communities, including individuals with limited English proficiency, are provided opportunities to review and comment during implementation of the Plan. 


(3) Project Management Plans and Program Management Plans shall include information, concerning any outreach activities to be undertaken during the implementation of the project or activity, to socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and communities, including individuals of limited English proficiency. 


(4) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall make project and program information available in languages other than English where a significant number of individuals in the area affected by the project or program activity are expected to have limited English proficiency. 


(5) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall provide translators or similar services at public meetings where a significant number of participants are expected to have limited English proficiency. 




