# § 813.3   Requirements for clearance of CSOSA guidance documents.

CSOSA's review and clearance of guidance documents, including policy and procedures, occurs according to the stages set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(a) *Policy management*—(1) *Stage 1—planning.* The CSOSA component coordinates with OPA to initiate the process.


(2) *Stage 2—development.* The CSOSA component provides the operational details and OPA will conduct the analysis and coordination and then prepare the initial document.


(3) *Stage 3—review.* The multi-layered review involves the Associate Directors, other CSOSA components and Employee Labor Relations (ELR), if appropriate. Upon completion, the Director reviews and signs the document for implementation.


(4) *Stage 4—maintenance.* The Office of Information Technology (OIT) posts the signed policies to CSOSA's intranet and/or public-facing web portal, and OPA maintains the central repository of all signed policies and associated working files and initiates the biennial review.


(b) *Procedure (also known as operating instruction—OI) management*—(1) *Stage 1—planning.* The CSOSA component submits a request to OPA for a new OI or an update to an existing OI;


(2) *Stage 2—development.* The CSOSA component prepares the content for the initial draft, which OPA reviews and affects any necessary coordination across CSOSA.


(3) *Stage 3—review.* The initial draft OI is submitted simultaneously to CSOSA Associate Directors, the Supervisory Policy Analyst, and Office of the Director for review. If applicable, notice is provided to union representatives; and upon clearance and approvals it is submitted to the Director for review, signature, and implementation.


(4) *Stage 4—maintenance.* The Office of Information Technology (OIT) posts the signed OI to CSOSA's intranet and/or public-facing web portal; OPA maintains the central repository of all signed OI and associated working files and initiates the biennial review.






