# ยง 876.5530   Implantable transprostatic tissue retractor system.

(a) *Identification.* An implantable transprostatic tissue retractor system is a prescription use device that consists of a delivery device and implant. The delivery device is inserted transurethrally and deploys the implant through the prostate. It is designed to increase prostatic urethral patency by providing prostate lobe tissue retraction while preserving the potential for future prostate procedures and is intended for the treatment of symptoms due to urinary outflow obstruction secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia in men.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) The elements of the device that may contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.


(2) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the patient-contacting components of the device.


(3) Performance data must support shelf life by demonstrating continued sterility of the device (of the patient-contacting components), package integrity, and device functionality over the requested shelf life.


(4) Non-clinical testing data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:


(i) Deployment testing must be conducted.


(ii) Mechanical strength must be conducted.


(iii) Resistance-to-degradation testing must be conducted.


(5) Non-clinical testing must evaluate the compatibility of the device in a magnetic resonance environment.


(6) In vivo testing must demonstrate safe and effective use, assess the impact of the implants on the ability to perform subsequent treatments, document the adverse event profile associated with clinical use, and demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:


(i) Deployment testing must be conducted.


(ii) Implant migration must be conducted.


(7) Labeling must bear all information required for safe and effective use of the device, and must include:


(i) Specific instructions, warnings, cautions, limitations, and the clinical training needed for the safe use of the device.


(ii) Information on the patient population for which the device has been demonstrated to be effective.


(iii) A detailed summary of the device technical parameters.


(iv) Information on how the device operates and the typical course of treatment.


(v) An expiration date/shelf life.


(vi) A detailed summary of the device- and procedure-related complications or adverse events pertinent to use of the device.



---

[N] [79 FR 43249, July 25, 2014]




