# § 721.10265   Ethane, 2-bromo-1, 1-difluoro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as ethane, 2-bromo-1,1-difluoro-. (PMN P-04-244; CAS No. 359-07-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragrap (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1000 meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece.


(A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.5 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv)(use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.5 mg/m
3), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k)(chemical intermediate for a herbicide) and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 38217, June 26, 2013]




