# § 63.2240   What are the compliance options and operating requirements and how must I meet them?

You must meet the compliance options and operating requirements described in Tables 1A, 1B, and 2 to this subpart and in paragraph (c) of this section by using one or more of the compliance options listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. The process units subject to the compliance options are listed in Tables 1A and 1B to this subpart and are defined in § 63.2292. You need only to meet one of the compliance options outlined in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each process unit. You cannot combine compliance options in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) for a single process unit. (For example, you cannot use a production-based compliance option in paragraph (a) for one vent of a veneer dryer and an add-on control system compliance option in paragraph (b) for another vent on the same veneer dryer. You must use either the production-based compliance option or an add-on control system compliance option for the entire dryer.)


(a) *Production-based compliance options.* You must meet the production-based total HAP compliance options in Table 1A to this subpart and the applicable operating requirements in Table 2 to this subpart. You may not use an add-on control system or wet control device to meet the production-based compliance options.


(b) *Compliance options for add-on control systems.* You must use an emissions control system and demonstrate that the resulting emissions meet the compliance options and operating requirements in Tables 1B and 2 to this subpart. If you own or operate a reconstituted wood product press at a new or existing affected source or a reconstituted wood product board cooler at a new affected source, and you choose to comply with one of the concentration-based compliance options for a control system outlet (presented as option numbers 2, 4, and 6 in Table 1B to this subpart), you must have a capture device that either meets the definition of wood products enclosure in § 63.2292 or achieves a capture efficiency of greater than or equal to 95 percent.


(c) *Emissions averaging compliance option (for existing sources only).* Using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, you must demonstrate that emissions included in the emissions average meet the compliance options and operating requirements. New sources may not use emissions averaging to comply with this subpart.


(1) *Calculation of required and actual mass removal.* Limit emissions of total HAP, as defined in § 63.2292, to include acetaldehyde, acrolein, formaldehyde, methanol, phenol, and propionaldehyde from your affected source to the standard specified by Equations 1, 2, and 3 of this section. 


(2) *Requirements for debits and credits.* You must calculate debits and credits as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) You must limit process units in the emissions average to those process units located at the existing affected source as defined in § 63.2292.


(ii) You cannot use nonoperating process units to generate emissions averaging credits. You cannot use process units that are shut down to generate emissions averaging debits or credits.


(iii) You may not include in your emissions average process units controlled to comply with a State, Tribal, or Federal rule other than this subpart.


(iv) You must use actual measurements of total HAP emissions from process units to calculate your required mass removal (RMR) and actual mass removal (AMR). The total HAP measurements must be obtained according to § 63.2262(b) through (d), (g), and (h), using the methods specified in Table 4 to this subpart.


(v) Your initial demonstration that the credit-generating process units will be capable of generating enough credits to offset the debits from the debit-generating process units must be made under representative operating conditions. After the compliance date, you must use actual operating data for all debit and credit calculations.


(vi) Do not include emissions from the following time periods in your emissions averaging calculations:


(A) Before August 13, 2021, emissions during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction as described in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP). On and after August 13, 2021, emissions during safety-related shutdowns, pressurized refiner startups and shutdowns, or startup and shutdown of direct-fired softwood veneer dryer gas-fired burners.


(B) Emissions during periods of monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities or during periods of control device maintenance covered in your routine control device maintenance exemption. No credits may be assigned to credit-generating process units, and maximum debits must be assigned to debit-generating process units during these periods.


(3) *Operating requirements.* You must meet the operating requirements in Table 2 to this subpart for each process unit or control device used in calculation of emissions averaging credits. 



---

[N] [69 FR 46011, July 30, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 49455, Aug. 13, 2020]




