# ยง 200.436   Depreciation.

(a) Depreciation is the method for allocating the cost of fixed assets to periods benefitting from asset use. The recipient or subrecipient may be compensated for the use of its buildings, capital improvements, equipment, and software projects capitalized in accordance with GAAP provided that they are needed and used in the recipient's or subrecipient's activities and correctly allocated to Federal awards. The compensation must be made by computing the proper depreciation.


(b) The allocation for depreciation must be made in accordance with Appendices III through IX of this part.


(c) Depreciation is computed applying the following rules. The computation of depreciation must be based on the acquisition cost of the assets involved. For an asset donated to the recipient or subrecipient by a third party, its fair market value at the time of the donation must be considered as the acquisition cost. Such assets may be depreciated or claimed as cost sharing but not both. When computing depreciation charges, the acquisition cost will exclude:


(1) The cost of land;


(2) Any portion of the cost of buildings and equipment borne by or donated by the Federal Government, irrespective of where the title was originally vested or is presently located;


(3) Any portion of the cost of buildings and equipment contributed by or for the recipient or subrecipient that is already claimed as cost sharing or where law or agreement prohibits recovery; and


(4) Any asset acquired solely for the performance of a non-Federal award.


(d) When computing depreciation charges, the following must be observed:


(1) The period of useful service or useful life established in each case for usable capital assets must take into consideration such factors as the type of construction, nature of the equipment, technological developments in the particular area, historical data, and the renewal and replacement policies followed for the individual items or classes of assets involved.


(2) The depreciation method used to charge the cost of an asset (or group of assets) to accounting periods must reflect the pattern of consumption of the asset during its useful life. In the absence of clear evidence indicating that the expected consumption of the asset will be significantly greater in the early portions than in the later portions of its useful life, the straight-line method must be presumed to be the appropriate method. Once used, depreciation methods may not be changed unless approved in advance by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The depreciation methods used to calculate the depreciation amounts for indirect cost rate purposes must be the same methods used by the recipient or subrecipient for its financial statements.


(3) The entire building, including the shell and all components, may be treated as a single asset and depreciated over a single useful life. A building may also be divided into multiple components. Each component may be depreciated over its estimated useful life in this case. The building components must be grouped into three general components: building shell (including construction and design costs), building services systems (for example, elevators, HVAC, and plumbing system), and fixed equipment (for example, sterilizers, casework, fume hoods, cold rooms, and glassware/washers). A cognizant agency for indirect costs may authorize a recipient or subrecipient to use more than these three groupings in exceptional cases. When a recipient or subrecipient elects to depreciate its buildings by their components, the same depreciation method must be used for indirect and financial statements purposes, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2).


(4) No depreciation may be allowed on assets that have outlived their depreciable lives.


(5) Where the depreciation method is introduced to replace the use allowance method, depreciation must be computed as if the asset had been depreciated over its entire life (meaning, from the date the asset was acquired and ready for use to the date of disposal or withdrawal from service). The total amount of use allowance and depreciation for an asset (including imputed depreciation applicable to periods before the conversion from the use allowance method and depreciation after the conversion) may not exceed the total acquisition cost of the asset.


(e) Adequate property records must support depreciation charges, and physical inventories must be taken at least once every two years to ensure that the assets exist and are usable, used, and needed. The recipient or subrecipient may use statistical sampling techniques when taking these inventories. In addition, the recipient or subrecipient must maintain adequate depreciation records showing the amount of depreciation.






