# § 2903.21   Applicable Federal statutes and regulations.

Several Federal statutes and regulations apply to grant applications considered for review and to project grants awarded under this program. These include, but are not limited to:


(a) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A—USDA implementation of the Freedom of Information Act.


(b) 7 CFR part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129 regarding debt collection.


(c) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.


(d) 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.


(e) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Imposes prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on recipients of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and loans.


(f) 2 CFR part 200, subparts B—General Provisions, C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards, and D—Post-Federal Award Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.


(g) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).


(h) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F—Audit Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. Title 29 U.S.C. 794 (sec. 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15b (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in federally assisted programs. Title 35 U.S.C. 200 *et seq.*—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).



---

[N] [85 FR 31939, May 28, 2020]




