# § 174.14   Amendment of protests.

(a) *Time for filing.* A protest may be amended at any time prior to the expiration of the period within which the protest may be filed under § 174.12(e). The amendment may assert additional claims pertaining to the administrative decision that is the subject of the protest, or may challenge an additional administrative decision relating to the same category of merchandise that is the subject of the protest. For the presentation of additional grounds or arguments in support of a valid protest after the applicable protest period set forth in § 174.12(e) has expired, see § 174.28.


(b) *Form and number of copies of amendment.* If the protest was not filed electronically, an amendment to the protest must be filed in quadruplicate on CBP Form 19 or on a form of the same size, clearly labeled “Amendment to Protest” at the top of the form. Schedules or other attachments (other than samples or similar exhibits) must also be filed in quadruplicate. A protest that was transmitted to CBP electronically may be amended only through an electronic data interchange system authorized by CBP for that purpose. Electronic submissions are not required to be filed in quadruplicate.


(c) *Contents.* An amendment to a protest shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name, address, and importer number of the protesting party, *i.e.*, the importer of record or consignee, and the name and address of his agent or attorney if filed by one of these; 


(2) The number and date of filing of the original protest; 


(3) A specific description of the merchandise affected by the decision as to which the amendment to the protest is filed; 


(4) The nature of and justification for the objection raised by the amendment set forth distinctly and specifically with respect to each category, payment, claim, decision, or refusal; and 


(5) The date of receipt and protest number of any protest previously filed that is the subject of a pending application for further review and that is alleged to involve the same merchandise and the same issues involved in the amendment. 


(d) *Identification of filer.* An amendment to a protest may be filed only by the person who originally filed such protest or his agent or attorney subject to the provisions of § 174.3. The identity of the filer shall be noted on the amendment to a protest. Any acceptable method used to identify the filer described in § 174.12(c) as being acceptable on a protest will be acceptable on an amendment to a protest. 


(e) *Place and date of filing.* An amendment to a protest shall be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically . The amendment shall be deemed filed on the date it is received by the Customs officer. 


(f) *Return of fifth copy.* If a fifth copy of the amendment is presented for the purpose of having recorded thereon the date of its receipt, such information shall be recorded thereon and the fifth copy shall be returned to the person filing the amendment. 



---

[N] [T.D. 70-181, 35 FR 13429, Aug. 22, 1970, as amended by T.D. 94-55, 59 FR 34971, July 8, 1994; CBP Dec. 11-02, 76 FR 2578, Jan. 14, 2011; CBP Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93025, Dec. 20, 2016]




