# § 435.1010   Definitions relating to institutional status.

For purposes of FFP, the following definitions apply:


*Active treatment in intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities* means treatment that meets the requirements specified in the standard concerning active treatment for intermediate care facilities for persons with Intellectual Disability under § 483.440(a) of this subchapter.


*Child-care institution* means a nonprofit private child-care institution, or a public child-care institution that accommodates no more than twenty-five children, which is licensed by the State in which it is situated, or has been approved by the agency of the State responsible for licensing or approval of institutions of this type, as meeting the standards established for licensing. The term does not include detention facilities, forestry camps, training schools or any other facility operated primarily for the detention of children who are determined to be delinquent.


*In an institution* refers to an individual who is admitted to live there and receive treatment or services provided there that are appropriate to his requirements. 


*Inmate of a public institution* means a person who is living in a public institution. An individual is not considered an inmate if—


(a) He is in a public educational or vocational training institution for purposes of securing education or vocational training; or 


(b) He is in a public institution for a temporary period pending other arrangements appropriate to his needs. 


*Inpatient* means a patient who has been admitted to a medical institution as an inpatient on recommendation of a physician or dentist and who—


(1) Receives room, board and professional services in the institution for a 24 hour period or longer, or 


(2) Is expected by the institution to receive room, board and professional services in the institution for a 24 hour period or longer even though it later develops that the patient dies, is discharged or is transferred to another facility and does not actually stay in the institution for 24 hours.


*Institution* means an establishment that furnishes (in single or multiple facilities) food, shelter, and some treatment or services to four or more persons unrelated to the proprietor. 


*Institution for mental diseases* means a hospital, nursing facility, or other institution of more than 16 beds that is primarily engaged in providing diagnosis, treatment or care of persons with mental diseases, including medical attention, nursing care and related services. Whether an institution is an institution for mental diseases is determined by its overall character as that of a facility established and maintained primarily for the care and treatment of individuals with mental diseases, whether or not it is licensed as such. An institution for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities is not an institution for mental diseases. 


*Institution for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities or persons with related conditions* means an institution (or distinct part of an institution) that—


(a) Is primarily for the diagnosis, treatment, or rehabilitation of Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities or persons with related conditions; and 


(b) Provides, in a protected residential setting, ongoing evaluation, planning, 24-hour supervision, coordination, and integration of health or rehabilitative services to help each individual function at his greatest ability. 


*Institution for tuberculosis* means an institution that is primarily engaged in providing diagnosis, treatment, or care of persons with tuberculosis, including medical attention, nursing care, and related services. Whether an institution is an institution for tuberculosis is determined by its overall character as that of a facility established and maintained primarily for the care and treatment of tuberculosis, whether or not it is licensed as such. 


*Medical institution* means an institution that—


(a) Is organized to provide medical care, including nursing and convalescent care; 


(b) Has the necessary professional personnel, equipment, and facilities to manage the medical, nursing, and other health needs of patients on a continuing basis in accordance with accepted standards; 


(c) Is authorized under State law to provide medical care; and 


(d) Is staffed by professional personnel who are responsible to the institution for professional medical and nursing services. The services must include adequate and continual medical care and supervision by a physician; registered nurse or licensed practical nurse supervision and services and nurses' aid services, sufficient to meet nursing care needs; and a physician's guidance on the professional aspects of operating the institution. 


*Outpatient* means a patient of an organized medical facility or distinct part of that facility who is expected by the facility to receive, and who does receive, professional services for less than a 24-hour period regardless of the hour of admission, whether or not a bed is used or whether or not the patient remains in the facility past midnight.


*Patient* means an individual who is receiving needed professional services that are directed by a licensed practitioner of the healing arts toward maintenance, improvement, or protection of health, or lessening of illness, disability, or pain. 


*Persons with related conditions* means individuals who have a severe, chronic disability that meets all of the following conditions:


(a) It is attributable to—


(1) Cerebral palsy or epilepsy; or


(2) Any other condition, other than mental illness, found to be closely related to Intellectual Disability because this condition results in impairment of general intellectual functioning or adaptive behavior similar to that of mentally retarded persons, and requires treatment or services similar to those required for these persons.


(b) It is manifested before the person reaches age 22.


(c) It is likely to continue indefinitely.


(d) It results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity:


(1) Self-care.


(2) Understanding and use of language.


(3) Learning.


(4) Mobility.


(5) Self-direction.


(6) Capacity for independent living.


*Public institution* means an institution that is the responsibility of a governmental unit or over which a governmental unit exercises administrative control. The term “public institution” does not include—


(a) A medical institution as defined in this section; 


(b) An intermediate care facility as defined in §§ 440.140 and 440.150 of this chapter; 


(c) A publicly operated community residence that serves no more than 16 residents, as defined in this section; or 


(d) A child-care institution as defined in this section with respect to—


(1) Children for whom foster care maintenance payments are made under title IV-E of the Act; and 


(2) Children receiving AFDC—foster care under title IV-A of the Act.


*Publicly operated community residence that serves no more than 16 residents* is defined in 20 CFR 416.231(b)(6)(i). A summary of that definition is repeated here for the information of readers.


(a) In general, a publicly operated community residence means—


(1) It is publicly operated as defined in 20 CFR 416.231(b)(2). 


(2) It is designed or has been changed to serve no more than 16 residents and it is serving no more than 16; and 


(3) It provides some services beyond food and shelter such as social services, help with personal living activities, or training in socialization and life skills. Occasional medical or remedial care may also be provided as defined in 45 CFR 228.1; and 


(b) A publicly operated community residence does not include the following facilities, even though they accommodate 16 or fewer residents: 


(1) Residential facilities located on the grounds of, or immediately adjacent to, any large institution or multiple purpose complex. 


(2) Educational or vocational training institutions that primarily provide an approved, accredited, or recognized program to individuals residing there. 


(3) Correctional or holding facilities for individuals who are prisoners, have been arrested or detained pending disposition of charges, or are held under court order as material witnesses or juveniles. 


(4) Hospitals, nursing facilities, and intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities. 



---

[N] [43 FR 45204, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 28655, July 1, 1982; 47 FR 31532, July 20, 1982; 51 FR 19181, May 28, 1986; 52 FR 47934, Dec. 17, 1987; 53 FR 657, Jan. 11, 1988; 53 FR 20495, June 3, 1988; 56 FR 8854, Mar. 1, 1991; 56 FR 23022, May 20, 1991; 59 FR 56233, Nov. 10, 1994. Redesignated at 71 FR 39225, July 12, 2006]




