# § 63.1312   Definitions.

(a) The following terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in § 63.2, § 63.101, § 63.111, § 63.161, or the Act, as specified after each term: 


(b) All other terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in this section. If a term is defined in § 63.2, § 63.101, § 63.111, or § 63.161 and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section for purposes of this subpart.


*Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene latex resin (ABS latex)* means ABS produced through an emulsion process; however, the product is not coagulated or dried as typically occurs in an emulsion process. 


*Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin (ABS)* means styrenic terpolymers consisting primarily of acrylonitrile, 1,3-butadiene, and styrene monomer units. ABS is usually composed of a styrene-acrylonitrile copolymer continuous phase with dispersed butadiene derived rubber.


*Acrylonitrile styrene acrylate resin (ASA)* means a resin formed using acrylic ester-based elastomers to impact-modify styrene acrylonitrile resin matrices.


*Affected source* is defined in § 63.1310(a).


*Affirmative defense* means in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Aggregate batch vent stream* means a gaseous emission stream containing only the exhausts from two or more batch process vents that are ducted, hardpiped, or otherwise connected together for a continuous flow. 


*Alpha methyl styrene acrylonitrile resin (AMSAN)* means copolymers consisting primarily of alpha methyl styrene and acrylonitrile.


*Annual average batch vent concentration* is determined using Equation 1, as described in § 63.1323(h)(2) for halogenated compounds. 


*Annual average batch vent flow rate* is determined by the procedures in § 63.1323(e)(3). 


*Annual average concentration,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means the flow-weighted annual average concentration, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(b), with the exceptions noted in § 63.1330, for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Annual average flow rate,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means the annual average flow rate, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(c), with the exceptions noted in § 63.1330, for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Average batch vent concentration* is determined by the procedures in § 63.1323(b)(5)(iii) for HAP concentrations and is determined by the procedures in § 63.1323(h)(1)(iii) for organic compounds containing halogens and hydrogen halides. 


*Average batch vent flow rate* is determined by the procedures in § 63.1323(e)(1) and (e)(2). 


*Batch cycle* means the operational step or steps, from start to finish, that occur as part of a batch unit operation.


*Batch emission episode* means a discrete emission venting episode associated with a single batch unit operation. Multiple batch emission episodes may occur from a single batch unit operation.


*Batch mass input limitation* means an enforceable restriction on the total mass of HAP or material that can be input to a batch unit operation in one year. 


*Batch mode* means the discontinuous bulk movement of material through a unit operation. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties may vary with time. For a unit operation operated in a batch mode (i.e., batch unit operation), the addition of material and withdrawal of material do not typically occur simultaneously. 


*Batch process* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a process where the reactor(s) is operated in a batch mode. 


*Batch process vent* means a process vent with annual organic HAP emissions greater than 225 kilograms per year from a batch unit operation within an affected source. Annual organic HAP emissions are determined as specified in § 63.1323(b) at the location specified in § 63.1323(a)(2). 


*Batch unit operation* means a unit operation operated in a batch mode. 


*Combined vent stream,* as used in reference to batch process vents, continuous process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, means the emissions from a combination of two or more of the aforementioned types of process vents. The primary occurrence of a combined vent stream is the combined emissions from a continuous process vent and a batch process vent. 


*Combustion device burner* means a device designed to mix and ignite fuel and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize waste organic vapors in a combustion device.


*Compounding unit* means a unit operation which blends, melts, and resolidifies solid polymers for the purpose of incorporating additives, colorants, or stabilizers into the final thermoplastic product. A unit operation whose primary purpose is to remove residual monomers from polymers is not a compounding unit.


*Construction* means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source. Construction also means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of a process unit or combination of process units which subsequently becomes an affected source or part of an affected source, due to a change in primary product. 


*Continuous mode* means the continuous movement of material through a unit operation. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties typically approach steady-state conditions. For a unit operation operated in a continuous mode (i.e., continuous unit operation), the simultaneous addition of raw material and withdrawal of product is typical. 


*Continuous process* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a process where the reactor(s) is operated in a continuous mode. 


*Continuous process vent* means a process vent containing greater than 0.005 weight percent total organic HAP from a continuous unit operation within an affected source. The total organic HAP weight percent is determined after the last recovery device, as described in § 63.115(a), and is determined as specified in § 63.115(c). 


*Continuous record* means documentation, either in hard copy or computer readable form, of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes and recorded at the frequency specified in § 63.1335(d) or § 63.1335(h). 


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device that either records an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes or records 1-hour or more frequent block average values. 


*Continuous unit operation* means a unit operation operated in a continuous mode. 


*Control device* is defined in § 63.111, except that the term “continuous process vents subject to § 63.1315” shall apply instead of the term “process vents,” for the purpose of this subpart. 


*Drawing unit* means a unit operation which converts polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then pulling it through an orifice to create a continuously extruded product.


*Emission point* means an individual continuous process vent, batch process vent, storage vessel, waste management unit, equipment leak, heat exchange system, or process contact cooling tower, or equipment subject to § 63.149. 


*Emulsion process* means a process where the monomer(s) is dispersed in droplets throughout the water phase with the aid of an emulsifying agent such as soap or a synthetic emulsifier. The polymerization occurs either within the emulsion droplet or in the aqueous phase. 


*Equipment* means, for the purposes of the provisions in § 63.1331 and the requirements in subpart H that are referred to in § 63.1331, each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, and instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service; and any control devices or systems required by subpart H of this part. 


*Existing affected source* is defined in § 63.1310(a)(3). 


*Existing process unit* means any process unit that is not a new process unit. 


*Expandable polystyrene resin (EPS)* means a polystyrene bead to which a blowing agent has been added using either an in-situ suspension process or a post-impregnation suspension process.


*Extruding unit* means a unit operation which converts polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then forcing it through an orifice to create a continuously extruded product.


*Flexible operation unit* means a process unit that manufactures different chemical products, polymers, or resins periodically by alternating raw materials or operating conditions. These units are also referred to as campaign plants or blocked operations. 


*Group 1 batch process vent* means a batch process vent releasing annual organic HAP emissions greater than the level specified in § 63.1323(d) and with a cutoff flow rate, calculated in accordance with § 63.1323(f), greater than or equal to the annual average batch vent flow rate. Annual organic HAP emissions and annual average batch vent flow rate are determined at the exit of the batch unit operation, as described in § 63.1323(a)(2). Annual organic HAP emissions are determined as specified in § 63.1323(b), and annual average batch vent flow rate is determined as specified in § 63.1323(e). 


*Group 2 batch process vent* means a batch process vent that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 batch process vent.


*Group 1 continuous process vent* means a continuous process vent releasing a gaseous emission stream that has a total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, less than or equal to 1.0 unless the continuous process vent is associated with existing thermoplastic product process units that produce methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene resin, then said vent falls within the Group 1 definition if the released emission stream has a total resource effectiveness index value less than or equal to 3.7.


*Group 2 continuous process vent* means a continuous process vent that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 continuous process vent.


*Group 1 storage vessel* means a storage vessel at an existing affected source that meets the applicability criteria specified in Table 2 or Table 3 of this subpart, or a storage vessel at a new affected source that meets the applicability criteria specified in Table 4 or Table 5 of this subpart.


*Group 2 storage vessel* means a storage vessel that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 storage vessel.


*Group 1 wastewater stream* means a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater from an existing or new affected source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(c) and/or that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(d), with the exceptions listed in § 63.1330(b)(8) for the purposes of this subpart (i.e., for organic HAP as defined in this section).


*Group 2 wastewater stream* means any process wastewater stream that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 wastewater stream.


*Halogenated aggregate batch vent stream* means an aggregate batch vent stream determined to have a total mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 3,750 kilograms per year or greater determined by the procedures specified in § 63.1323(h).


*Halogenated batch process vent* means a batch process vent determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 3,750 kilograms per year or greater determined by the procedures specified in § 63.1323(h).


*Halogenated continuous process vent* means a continuous process vent determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 0.45 kilograms per hour or greater determined by the procedures specified in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).


*Heat exchange system* means any cooling tower system or once-through cooling water system (e.g., river or pond water) designed and intended to operate to not allow contact between the cooling medium and process fluid or gases (i.e., a noncontact system). A heat exchange system can include more than one heat exchanger and can include recirculating or once-through cooling systems. 


*Highest-HAP recipe* for a product means the recipe of the product with the highest total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product. 


*Initial start-up* means the first time a new or reconstructed affected source begins production of a thermoplastic product, or, for equipment added or changed as described in § 63.1310(i), the first time the equipment is put into operation to produce a thermoplastic product. Initial start-up does not include operation solely for testing equipment. Initial start-up does not include subsequent start-ups of an affected source or portion thereof following malfunctions or shutdowns or following changes in product for flexible operation units or following recharging of equipment in batch operation. Further, for purposes of § 63.1311 and § 63.1331, initial start-up does not include subsequent start-ups of affected sources or portions thereof following malfunctions or process unit shutdowns. 


*Maintenance wastewater* is defined in § 63.101, except that the term “thermoplastic product process unit” shall apply wherever the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used. Further, the generation of wastewater from the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches is not maintenance wastewater, but is considered to be process wastewater, for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Mass process* means a polymerization process carried out through the use of thermal energy. Mass processes do not utilize emulsifying or suspending agents, but may utilize catalysts or other additives. 


*Material recovery section* means, for PET plants, the equipment that recovers by-product methanol from any process section for use, reuse, or sale, or the equipment that separates materials containing by-product methanol from any process section for off-site purification or treatment with the intent to recover methanol for reuse. For polystyrene plants, material recovery section means the equipment that recovers unreacted styrene from any process section for use, reuse, or sale, or the equipment that separates materials containing unreacted styrene from any process section for off-site purification or treatment with the intent to recover styrene for reuse. Equipment used to store recovered materials (i.e., ethylene glycol, methanol, or styrene) is not included. Equipment designed to recover or separate materials from the polymer product is to be included in this process section, provided that at the time of initial compliance some of the unreacted or by-product material is recovered for return to the TPPU, or sale, or provided that some of the separated material is sent for off-site purification or treatment with the intent to recover the unreacted or by-product material for reuse. Otherwise, such equipment is to be assigned to one of the other process sections, as appropriate. If equipment is used to recover unreacted or by-product material and return it directly to the same piece of process equipment from which it was emitted, then that recovery equipment is considered part of the process section that contains the process equipment. On the other hand, if equipment is used to recover unreacted or by-product material and return it to a different piece of process equipment in the same process section, that recovery equipment is considered part of a material recovery section. Equipment used for the on-site recovery of ethylene glycol from PET plants, however, is not included in the material recovery section; such equipment is to be included in the polymerization reaction section. Equipment used for the on-site recovery of both ethylene glycol and any other materials from PET plants is not included in the material recovery section; this equipment is to be included in the polymerization reaction section. Such equipment includes both contact and non-contact condensers removing ethylene glycol from vapor streams coming out of polymerization vessels. 


*Maximum true vapor pressure* is defined in § 63.111, except that the terms “transfer” or “transferred” shall not apply for purposes of this subpart. 


*Methyl methacrylate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin (MABS)* means styrenic polymers containing methyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile, butadiene, and styrene. MABS is prepared by dissolving or dispersing polybutadiene rubber in a mixture of methyl methacrylate-acrylonitrile-styrene and butadiene monomer. The graft polymerization is carried out by a bulk or a suspension process.


*Methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene resin (MBS)* means styrenic polymers containing methyl methacrylate, butadiene, and styrene. Production of MBS is achieved using an emulsion process in which methyl methacrylate and styrene are grafted onto a styrene-butadiene rubber.


*Multicomponent system* means, as used in conjunction with batch process vents, a stream whose liquid and/or vapor contains more than one compound. 


*New process unit* means a process unit for which the construction or reconstruction commenced after March 29, 1995. 


*Nitrile resin* means a resin produced through the polymerization of acrylonitrile, methyl acrylate, and butadiene latex using an emulsion process.


*On-site* or *On site* means, with respect to records required to be maintained by this subpart or required by another subpart referenced by this subpart, that records are stored at a location within a major source which encompasses the affected source. On-site includes, but is not limited to, storage at the affected source or TPPU to which the records pertain, or storage in central files elsewhere at the major source.


*Operating day* means the period defined by the owner or operator in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1335(e)(5). The operating day is the period for which daily average monitoring values and batch cycle daily average monitoring values are determined. 


*Organic hazardous air pollutant(s) (organic HAP)* means one or more of the chemicals listed in Table 6 of this subpart or any other chemical which is: 


(1) Knowingly produced or introduced into the manufacturing process other than as an impurity; and 


(2) Listed in Table 2 of subpart F of this part. 


*PET using a dimethyl terephthalate process* means the manufacturing of PET based on the esterification of dimethyl terephthalate with ethylene glycol to form the intermediate monomer bis-(2-hydroxyethyl)-terephthalate that is subsequently polymerized to form PET.


*PET using a terephthalic acid process* means the manufacturing of PET based on the esterification reaction of terephthalic acid with ethylene glycol to form the intermediate monomer bis-(2-hydroxyethyl)-terephthalate that is subsequently polymerized to form PET.


*Poly(ethylene terephthalate) resin (PET)* means a polymer or copolymer comprised of at least 50 percent bis-(2-hydroxyethyl)-terephthalate by weight.


*Polymerization reaction section* means the equipment designed to cause monomer(s) to react to form polymers, including equipment designed primarily to cause the formation of short polymer chains (e.g., oligomers or low molecular weight polymers), but not including equipment designed to prepare raw materials for polymerization (e.g., esterification vessels). For the purposes of these standards, the polymerization reaction section begins with the equipment used to transfer the materials from the raw materials preparation section and ends with the last vessel in which polymerization occurs. Equipment used for the on-site recovery of ethylene glycol from PET plants is included in this process section, rather than in the material recovery process section. 


*Polystyrene resin* means a thermoplastic polymer or copolymer comprised of at least 80 percent styrene or para-methylstyrene by weight.


*Primary product* is defined in and determined by the procedures specified in § 63.1310(f).


*Process contact cooling tower system* means a cooling tower system that is designed and operated to allow contact between the cooling medium and process fluid or gases.


*Process section* means the equipment designed to accomplish a general but well-defined task in polymers production. Process sections include, but are not limited to, raw materials preparation, polymerization reaction, and material recovery. A process section may be dedicated to a single TPPU or common to more than one TPPU.


*Process unit* means a collection of equipment assembled and connected by hardpiping or duct work, used to process raw materials and to manufacture a product. 


*Process vent* means a gaseous emission stream from a unit operation that is discharged to the atmosphere either directly or after passing through one or more control, recovery, or recapture devices. Unit operations that may have process vents are condensers, distillation units, reactors, or other unit operations within the TPPU. Process vents exclude pressure releases, gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system(s), and leaks from equipment regulated under § 63.1331. A gaseous emission stream is no longer considered to be a process vent after the stream has been controlled and monitored in accordance with the applicable provisions of this subpart. 


*Product* means a polymer produced using the same monomers and varying in additives (e.g., initiators, terminators, etc.); catalysts; or in the relative proportions of monomers, that is manufactured by a process unit. With respect to polymers, more than one recipe may be used to produce the same product. As an example, styrene acrylonitrile resin and methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene resin each represent a different product. Product also means a chemical that is not a polymer, that is manufactured by a process unit. By-products, isolated intermediates, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered products. 


*Raw materials preparation section* means the equipment at a polymer manufacturing plant designed to prepare raw materials, such as monomers and solvents, for polymerization. For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, this process section includes the equipment used to transfer raw materials from storage and/or the equipment used to transfer recovered material from the material recovery process sections to the raw material preparation section, and ends with the last piece of equipment that prepares the material for polymerization. The raw materials preparation section may include equipment that is used to purify, dry, or otherwise treat raw materials or raw and recovered materials together; to activate catalysts; or to promote esterification including the formation of some short polymer chains (oligomers). The raw materials preparation section does not include equipment that is designed primarily to accomplish the formation of oligomers, the treatment of recovered materials alone, or the storage of raw or recovered materials. 


*Recipe* means a specific composition, from among the range of possible compositions that may occur within a product, as defined in this section. A recipe is determined by the proportions of monomers and, if present, other reactants and additives that are used to make the recipe. For example, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene latex resin (ABS latex) without additives; ABS latex with an additive; and ABS latex with different proportions of acrylonitrile to butadiene are all different recipes of the same product, ABS latex. 


*Reconstruction* means the replacement of components of an affected source or of a previously unaffected stationary source that becomes an affected source as a result of the replacement, to such an extent that:


(1) The fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable new source; and


(2) It is technologically and economically feasible for the reconstructed source to meet the provisions of this subpart.


*Recovery device* means: 


(1) An individual unit of equipment capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for: 


(i) Use; 


(ii) Reuse; 


(iii) Fuel value (i.e., net heating value); or 


(iv) For sale for use, reuse, or fuel value (i.e., net heating value). 


(2) Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units. For the purposes of the monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting requirements of this subpart, recapture devices are considered recovery devices. 


*Recovery operations equipment* means the equipment used to separate the components of process streams. Recovery operations equipment includes distillation units, condensers, etc. Equipment used for wastewater treatment and recovery or recapture devices used as control devices shall not be considered recovery operations equipment. 


*Residual* is defined in § 63.111, except that when the definition in § 63.111 uses the term “Table 9 compounds,” the term “organic HAP listed in Table 6 of subpart JJJ” shall apply for purposes of this subpart. 


*Shutdown* means for purposes including, but not limited to, periodic maintenance, replacement of equipment, or repair, the cessation of operation of an affected source, a TPPU(s) within an affected source, a waste management unit or unit operation within an affected source, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, or the emptying or degassing of a storage vessel. For purposes of the wastewater provisions of § 63.1330, shutdown does not include the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches. For purposes of the batch process vent provisions in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327, the cessation of equipment in batch operation is not a shutdown, unless the equipment undergoes maintenance, is replaced, or is repaired. 


*Solid state polymerization process* means a unit operation which, through the application of heat, furthers the polymerization (i.e., increases the intrinsic viscosity) of polymer chips. 


*Start-up* means the setting into operation of an affected source, a TPPU(s) within an affected source, a waste management unit or unit operation within an affected source, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, or a storage vessel after emptying and degassing. For both continuous and batch processes, start-up includes initial start-up and operation solely for testing equipment. For both continuous and batch processes, start-up does not include the recharging of equipment in batch operation. For continuous processes, start-up includes transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units. For batch processes, start-up does not include transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units. 


*Steady-state conditions* means that all variables (temperatures, pressures, volumes, flow rates, etc.) in a process do not vary significantly with time; minor fluctuations about constant mean values may occur. 


*Storage vessel* means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain one or more organic HAP. Storage vessels do not include: 


(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships; 


(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere; 


(3) Vessels with capacities smaller than 38 cubic meters; 


(4) Vessels and equipment storing and/or handling material that contains no organic HAP and/or organic HAP as impurities only; 


(5) Wastewater storage tanks; and 


(6) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers. 


*Styrene acrylonitrile resin (SAN)* means copolymers consisting primarily of styrene and acrylonitrile monomer units.


*Supplemental combustion air* means the air that is added to a vent stream after the vent stream leaves the unit operation. Air that is part of the vent stream as a result of the nature of the unit operation is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to operate combustion device burner(s) is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to ensure the proper operation of catalytic oxidizers, to include the intermittent addition of air upstream of the catalyst bed to maintain a minimum threshold flow rate through the catalyst bed or to avoid excessive temperatures in the catalyst bed, is not considered to be supplemental combustion air. 


*Suspension process* means a polymerization process where the monomer(s) is in a state of suspension, with the help of suspending agents, in a medium other than water (typically an organic solvent). The resulting polymers are not soluble in the reactor medium.


*Thermoplastic product* means one of the following types of products:


(1) ABS latex;


(2) ABS using a batch emulsion process;


(3) ABS using a batch suspension process;


(4) ABS using a continuous emulsion process;


(5) ABS using a continuous mass process;


(6) ASA/AMSAN;


(7) EPS;


(8) MABS;


(9) MBS;


(10) nitrile resin;


(11) PET using a batch dimethyl terephthalate process;


(12) PET using a batch terephthalic acid process;


(13) PET using a continuous dimethyl terephthalate process;


(14) PET using a continuous terephthalic acid process;


(15) PET using a continuous terephthalic acid high viscosity multiple end finisher process;


(16) Polystyrene resin using a batch process;


(17) Polystyrene resin using a continuous process;


(18) SAN using a batch process; or


(19) SAN using a continuous process.


*Thermoplastic product process unit (TPPU)* means a collection of equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or ductwork, used to process raw materials and to manufacture a thermoplastic product as its primary product. This collection of equipment includes unit operations; recovery operations equipment, process vents; equipment identified in § 63.149; storage vessels, as determined in § 63.1310(g); and the equipment that is subject to the equipment leak provisions as specified in § 63.1331. Utilities, lines and equipment not containing process fluids, and other non-process lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not part of the thermoplastic product process unit. A thermoplastic product process unit consists of more than one unit operation. 


*Total organic compounds (TOC)* means those compounds excluding methane and ethane measured according to the procedures of Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


*Total resource effectiveness index value or TRE index value* means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction organic HAP associated with a continuous process vent stream, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of organic HAP, net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the continuous process vent stream contains halogenated compounds), as quantified by the equations given under § 63.115. 


*Vent stream,* as used in reference to batch process vents, continuous process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, means the emissions from one or more process vents. 


*Waste management unit* is defined in § 63.111, except that where the definition in § 63.111 uses the term “chemical manufacturing process unit,” the term “TPPU” shall apply for purposes of this subpart. 


*Wastewater* means water that: 


(1) Contains either: 


(i) An annual average concentration of organic HAP listed on Table 6 of this subpart, except for ethylene glycol, of at least 5 parts per million by weight and has an annual average flow rate of 0.02 liter per minute or greater; or 


(ii) An annual average concentration of organic HAP listed on Table 6 of this subpart, except for ethylene glycol, of at least 10,000 parts per million by weight at any flow rate; and 


(2) Is discarded from a TPPU that is part of an affected source. Wastewater is process wastewater or maintenance wastewater. 


*Wastewater stream* means a stream that contains wastewater as defined in this section. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48229, Sept. 12, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11547, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38102, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36937, July 16, 2001; 79 FR 17364, Mar. 27, 2014]




