# ยง 1240.22   Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.

(a) *Regulatory capital deductions from common equity tier 1 capital.* An Enterprise must deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements the items set forth in this paragraph (a):


(1) Goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liabilities (DTLs) in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;


(2) Intangible assets, other than MSAs, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;


(3) Deferred tax assets (DTAs) that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;


(4) Any gain-on-sale in connection with a securitization exposure;


(5) Any defined benefit pension fund net asset, net of any associated DTL in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, held by the Enterprise. With the prior approval of FHFA, this deduction is not required for any defined benefit pension fund net asset to the extent the Enterprise has unrestricted and unfettered access to the assets in that fund. An Enterprise must risk weight any portion of the defined benefit pension fund asset that is not deducted under this paragraph (a) as if the Enterprise directly holds a proportional ownership share of each exposure in the defined benefit pension fund.


(6) The amount of expected credit loss that exceeds its eligible credit reserves.


(b) *Regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital.* (1) An Enterprise must adjust the sum of common equity tier 1 capital elements pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b). Such adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital must be made net of the associated deferred tax effects.


(i) An Enterprise must deduct any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.


(ii) An Enterprise must deduct any net gain and add any net loss related to changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due to changes in the Enterprise's own credit risk. An Enterprise must deduct the difference between its credit spread premium and the risk-free rate for derivatives that are liabilities as part of this adjustment.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Deductions from regulatory capital related to investments in capital instruments.*1 An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own capital instruments as follows:


(1) An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own common stock instruments from its common equity tier 1 capital elements to the extent such instruments are not excluded from regulatory capital under ยง 1240.20(b)(1);


(2) An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own additional tier 1 capital instruments from its additional tier 1 capital elements; and


(3) An Enterprise must deduct an investment in the Enterprise's own tier 2 capital instruments from its tier 2 capital elements.


(d) *Items subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds.* (1) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d) that, individually, exceeds 10 percent of the sum of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).


(i) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. An Enterprise is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section) arising from timing differences that the Enterprise could realize through net operating loss carrybacks. The Enterprise must risk weight these assets at 100 percent.


(ii) MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) An Enterprise must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the items listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that are not deducted as a result of the application of the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold, and that, in aggregate, exceed 17.65 percent of the sum of the Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital elements, minus adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, minus the items listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (the 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
2

(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds, an Enterprise may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. An Enterprise that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. An Enterprise may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of FHFA.


(e) *Netting of DTLs against assets subject to deduction.* (1) Except as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, netting of DTLs against assets that are subject to deduction under this section is permitted, but not required, if the following conditions are met:


(i) The DTL is associated with the asset; and


(ii) The DTL would be extinguished if the associated asset becomes impaired or is derecognized under GAAP.


(2) A DTL may only be netted against a single asset.


(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the threshold deduction in paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, may be offset by DTLs (that have not been netted against assets subject to deduction pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section) subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (e).


(i) Only the DTAs and DTLs that relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and that are eligible for offsetting by that authority may be offset for purposes of this deduction.


(ii) The amount of DTLs that the Enterprise nets against DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and against DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, must be allocated in proportion to the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs) and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs), respectively.


(4) An Enterprise must net DTLs against assets subject to deduction under this section in a consistent manner from reporting period to reporting period. An Enterprise may change its preference regarding the manner in which it nets DTLs against specific assets subject to deduction under this section only after obtaining the prior approval of FHFA.


(f) *Insufficient amounts of a specific regulatory capital component to effect deductions.* Under the corresponding deduction approach, if an Enterprise does not have a sufficient amount of a specific component of capital to effect the required deduction after completing the deductions required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Enterprise must deduct the shortfall from the next higher (that is, more subordinated) component of regulatory capital.


(g) *Treatment of assets that are deducted.* An Enterprise must exclude from standardized total risk-weighted assets and advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets any item deducted from regulatory capital under paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section.




