# § 40.79   How is the collection process completed?

(a) As the collector, when using the paper CCF, you must do the following things to complete the collection process. You must complete the steps called for in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section in the employee's presence.


(1) Direct the employee to read and sign the certification statement on Copy 2 of the CCF and provide all information required in Step 5. If the employee declines to sign the CCF or to provide any of the required information, you must note this in the “Remarks” line (Step 2) of the CCF and complete the collection. If the employee declines to fill out any information, you must, as a minimum, print the employee's name in the appropriate place. 


(2) Complete the chain of custody on the CCF (Step 4) by printing your name (note: you may pre-print your name), recording the time and date of the collection, signing the statement, and entering the name of the delivery service transferring the specimen to the laboratory, 


(3) Ensure that all copies of the CCF are legible and complete. 


(4) Remove Copy 5 of the CCF and give it to the employee. 


(5) Place the specimen bottles and Copy 1 of the CCF in the appropriate pouches of the plastic bag. 


(6) Secure both pouches of the plastic bag. 


(7) Advise the employee that he or she may leave the collection site. 


(8) To prepare the sealed plastic bag containing the specimens and CCF for shipment you must: 


(i) Place the sealed plastic bag in a shipping container (*e.g.,* standard courier box) designed to minimize the possibility of damage during shipment. (More than one sealed plastic bag can be placed into a single shipping container if you are doing multiple collections.) 


(ii) Seal the container as appropriate. 


(iii) If a laboratory courier hand-delivers the specimens from the collection site to the laboratory, prepare the sealed plastic bag for shipment as directed by the courier service. 


(9) Send Copy 2 of the CCF to the MRO and Copy 4 to the DER. You must fax or otherwise transmit these copies to the MRO and DER within 24 hours or during the next business day. Keep Copy 3 for at least 30 days, unless otherwise specified by applicable DOT agency regulations.


(b) As a collector, when using other forms of the CCF as approved by the Office of Management and Budget, you must follow the procedures approved for that form.


(c) As a collector or collection site, you must ensure that each specimen you collect is shipped to a laboratory as quickly as possible, but in any case, within 24 hours or during the next business day.



---

[N] [65 FR 79526, Dec. 19, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 49384, Aug. 23, 2006; 80 FR 19553, Apr. 13, 2015. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 27641, 27643, May 2, 2023]




