# ยง 222.16   Hearings.

(a) *Timing.* In any action, the Board may hold a hearing following submission of each party's written direct, response, and reply testimony if it determines that such a hearing is appropriate or advisable. The Board may decide to hold a hearing on its own initiative or after consideration of a request for a hearing from any party.


(b) *Virtual hearings.* All hearings shall be held virtually and may be recorded as deemed necessary by the Board.


(c) *Requesting a hearing.* A request for a hearing on the merits of a case may be included in a party statement, pursuant to ยง 222.15(e), but may also be submitted following the procedures set forth in ยง 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter no later than 7 days after the date by which reply testimony may be submitted under ยง 222.15(a). The Board, in its sole discretion, shall choose whether to hold a hearing, and may elect to hold a hearing absent a request from a party.


(d) *Content of request.* Any request in a party statement for a hearing on the merits of a case shall consist of a short statement providing the reasons why the party believes the request should be granted.


(e) *Scheduling order.* When the Board determines that a hearing on the merits of a case is appropriate, it will issue an amended scheduling order setting forth the date of the hearing and deadlines for any additional evidence requested by the Board or for a pre-hearing conference, if applicable.


(f) *Close of evidence.* Following a hearing on the merits of a case, no additional written testimony or evidence may be submitted to the Board unless at the Board's specific request or with leave of the Board for good cause shown.



---

[N] [87 FR 30077, May 17, 2022]




