# ยง 262.42   Exception reporting.

(a)(1) A large quantity generator who does not receive a copy of the manifest with the signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility within 45 days of the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter must contact the transporter and/or the owner or operator of the designated facility to determine the status of the hazardous waste.


(2) A large quantity generator must submit an Exception Report to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the generator is located if he has not received a copy of the manifest with the handwritten signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility within 60 days of the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter. The Exception Report must include:


(i) A legible copy of the manifest for which the generator does not have confirmation of delivery; 


(ii) A cover letter signed by the generator or his authorized representative explaining the efforts taken to locate the hazardous waste and the results of those efforts. 




(3) Beginning on December 1, 2025, the EPA will no longer accept mailed paper Exception Reports from large quantity generators. Beginning on December 1, 2025, a large quantity generator must submit an Exception Report to the EPA e-Manifest system if the generator has not received a copy of the manifest with the signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility within 60 days of the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter. The Exception Report must include:


(i) A legible copy of the manifest for which the generator does not have confirmation of delivery.


(ii) An explanation of the efforts taken to locate the hazardous waste and the results of those efforts.








(b) A small quantity generator of hazardous waste who does not receive a copy of the manifest with the handwritten signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility within 60 days of the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter must:


(1) Submit a legible copy of the manifest, with some indication that the generator has not received confirmation of delivery, to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the generator is located.


(2) Beginning on December 1, 2025, the EPA will no longer accept mailed paper Exception Reports from small quantity generators. Beginning on December 1, 2025, a small quantity generator must submit a legible copy of the manifest, with some indication that the generator has not received confirmation of delivery, to the EPA e-Manifest system. Generators that are normally VSQGs but are subject to the SQG provisions of this paragraph (b) because of an episodic generation event pursuant to ยง 262.232(a)(5), must submit a legible copy of the manifest, with some indication that the generator has not received confirmation of delivery, to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the generator is located.




(c) For rejected shipments of hazardous waste or container residues contained in non-empty containers that are forwarded to an alternate facility by a designated facility using a new manifest (following the procedures of 40 CFR 264.72(e)(1) through (6) or 40 CFR 265.72(e)(1) through (6)), the generator must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable, for the shipment forwarding the material from the designated facility to the alternate facility instead of for the shipment from the generator to the designated facility. For purposes of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section for a shipment forwarding such waste to an alternate facility by a designated facility:


(1) The copy of the manifest received by the generator must have the handwritten signature of the owner or operator of the alternate facility in place of the signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility, and


(2) The 45/60-day timeframes begin the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter forwarding the hazardous waste shipment from the designated facility to the alternate facility.




(d)(1) Beginning on December 1, 2025, any requirement in ยง 262.40 for a generator to keep or retain a copy of an Exception Report is satisfied by retention of a signed electronic Exception Report in the generator's account on the EPA e-Manifest system, provided that the Exception Report is readily available if requested by the EPA.


(2) Beginning on December 1, 2025, no generator may be held liable for the inability to produce an electronic Exception Report for inspection under this section if the generator can demonstrate that the inability to produce the electronic Exception Report is due exclusively to a technical difficulty with the e-Manifest system for which the generator bears no responsibility.





---

[N] [52 FR 35898, Sept. 23, 1987, as amended at 75 FR 13005, Mar. 18, 2010; 88 FR 54111, Aug. 9, 2023; 89 FR 60726, July 26, 2024]




