# ยง 272.13   Prisoner verification system (PVS).

(a) *General.* Each State agency shall establish a system to monitor and prevent individuals who are being held in any Federal, State, and/or local detention or correctional institutions for more than 30 days from being included in a SNAP household.


(b) *Use of match data.* State prisoner verification systems shall provide for:


(1) The comparison of identifying information about each household member, excluding minors, as that term is defined by each State, and one-person households in States where a face-to-face interview is conducted, against identifying information about inmates of institutions at Federal, State and local levels;


(2) The reporting of instances where there is a match;


(3) The independent verification of match hits to determine their accuracy;


(4) Notice to the household of match results. The State must use the procedures laid forth in ยง 273.12(c)(3)(iii) of this chapter;


(5) An opportunity for the household to respond to the match prior to an adverse action to deny, reduce, or terminate benefits; and


(6) The establishment and collections of claims as appropriate.


(c) *Match frequency.* State agencies shall make a comparison of match data for adult household members at the time of application and at recertification. States that opt to obtain and use prisoner information collected under Section 1611(e)(1)(I)(i)(I) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1382(e)(1)(I)(i)(I)) shall be considered in compliance with this section. States shall enter into a computer matching agreement with the SSA under authority contained in 42 U.S.C. 405(r)(3).



---

[N] [77 FR 48055, Aug. 13, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 2035, Jan. 6, 2017]




