# § 80.2   Definitions.

The definitions of this section apply in this part unless otherwise specified. Note that many terms defined here are common terms that have specific meanings under this part.


*Actual peak capacity* means 105% of the maximum annual volume of renewable fuels produced from a specific renewable fuel production facility on a calendar year basis.


(1) For facilities that commenced construction prior to December 19, 2007, the actual peak capacity is based on the last five calendar years prior to 2008, unless no such production exists, in which case actual peak capacity is based on any calendar year after startup during the first three years of operation.


(2) For facilities that commenced construction after December 19, 2007 and before January 1, 2010, that are fired with natural gas, biomass, or a combination thereof, the actual peak capacity is based on any calendar year after startup during the first three years of operation.


(3) For all other facilities not included above, the actual peak capacity is based on the last five calendar years prior to the year in which the owner or operator registers the facility under the provisions of § 80.1450, unless no such production exists, in which case actual peak capacity is based on any calendar year after startup during the first three years of operation.


*Adjusted cellulosic content* means the percent of organic material that is cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin.


*Advanced biofuel* means renewable fuel, other than ethanol derived from cornstarch, that has lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions that are at least 50 percent less than baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions.


*Agricultural digester* means an anaerobic digester that processes only animal manure, crop residues, or separated yard waste with an adjusted cellulosic content of at least 75%. Each and every material processed in an agricultural digester must have an adjusted cellulosic content of at least 75%.


*Algae grown photosynthetically* are algae that are grown such that their energy and carbon are predominantly derived from photosynthesis.


*Annual cover crop* means an annual crop, planted as a rotation between primary planted crops, or between trees and vines in orchards and vineyards, typically to protect soil from erosion and to improve the soil between periods of regular crops. An annual cover crop has no existing market to which it can be sold except for its use as feedstock for the production of renewable fuel.


*Approved pathway* means a pathway listed in table 1 to § 80.1426 or in a petition approved under § 80.1416 that is eligible to generate RINs of a particular D code.


*Areas at risk of wildfire* are those areas in the “wildland-urban interface”, where humans and their development meet or intermix with wildland fuel. Note that, for guidance, the SILVIS laboratory at the University of Wisconsin maintains a website that provides a detailed map of areas meeting this criteria at: *www.silvis.forest.wisc.edu/projects/US_WUI_2000.asp.* The SILVIS laboratory is located at 1630 Linden Drive, Madison, Wisconsin 53706 and can be contacted at (608) 263-4349.


*A-RIN* means a RIN verified during the interim period by a registered independent third-party auditor using a QAP that has been approved under § 80.1469(a) following the audit process specified in § 80.1472.


*Assigned RIN* means a RIN assigned to a volume of renewable fuel or RNG pursuant to § 80.1426(e) or § 80.125(c), respectively, with a K code of 1.


*Audited facility* means any facility audited under an approved quality assurance plan under this part.


*Audited party* means a party that pays for or receives services from an independent third party under this part.


*Baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions* means the average lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions for gasoline or diesel (whichever is being replaced by the renewable fuel) sold or distributed as transportation fuel in 2005.


*Baseline volume* means the permitted capacity or, if permitted capacity cannot be determined, the actual peak capacity or nameplate capacity as applicable pursuant to § 80.1450(b)(1)(v)(A) through (C), of a specific renewable fuel production facility on a calendar year basis.


*Batch pathway* means each combination of approved pathway, equivalence value as determined under § 80.1415, and verification status for which a facility is registered.


*Biocrude* means a liquid biointermediate that meets all the following requirements:


(1) It is produced at a biointermediate production facility using one or more of the following processes:


(i) A process identified in row M under table 1 to § 80.1426.


(ii) A process identified in a pathway listed in a petition approved under § 80.1416 for the production of renewable fuel produced from biocrude.


(2) It is to be used to produce renewable fuel at a refinery as defined in 40 CFR 1090.80.


*Biodiesel* means a mono-alkyl ester that meets ASTM D6751 (incorporated by reference, see § 80.12).


*Biodiesel distillation bottoms* means the heavier product from distillation at a biodiesel production facility that does not meet the definition of biodiesel.


*Biogas* means a mixture of biomethane, inert gases, and impurities that meets all the following requirements:


(1) It is produced through the anaerobic digestion of renewable biomass under an approved pathway.


(2) Non-renewable components have not been added.


(3) It requires removal of additional components to be suitable for its designated use (*e.g.,* as a biointermediate, to produce RNG, or to produce biogas-derived renewable fuel).


*Biogas closed distribution system* means the infrastructure contained between when biogas is produced and when biogas or treated biogas is used to produce biogas-derived renewable fuel within a discrete location or series of locations that does not include placement of biogas, treated biogas, or RNG on a natural gas commercial pipeline system.


*Biogas closed distribution system RIN generator* means any party that generates RINs for renewable CNG/LNG in a biogas closed distribution system.


*Biogas-derived renewable fuel* means renewable CNG/LNG or any other renewable fuel that is produced from biogas or RNG, including from biogas used as a biointermediate.


*Biogas producer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a biogas production facility.


*Biogas production facility* means any facility where biogas is produced from renewable biomass under an approved pathway.


*Biogas used as a biointermediate* means biogas or treated biogas that a renewable fuel producer uses to produce renewable fuel other than renewable CNG/LNG at a separate facility from where the biogas is produced.


*Biointermediate* means any feedstock material that is intended for use to produce renewable fuel and meets all the following requirements:


(1) It is produced from renewable biomass.


(2) It has not previously had RINs generated for it.


(3) It is produced at a facility registered with EPA that is different than the facility at which it is used as feedstock material to produce renewable fuel.


(4) It is produced from the feedstock material identified in an approved pathway, will be used to produce the renewable fuel listed in that approved pathway, and is produced and processed in accordance with the process(es) listed in that approved pathway.


(5) Is one of the following types of biointermediate:


(i) Biocrude.


(ii) Biodiesel distillate bottoms.


(iii) Biomass-based sugars.


(iv) Digestate.


(v) Free fatty acid (FFA) feedstock.


(vi) Glycerin.


(vii) Soapstock.


(viii) Undenatured ethanol.


(ix) Biogas used to make a renewable fuel other than renewable CNG/LNG.


(6) It is not a feedstock material identified in an approved pathway that is used to produce the renewable fuel specified in that approved pathway.


*Biointermediate import facility* means any facility as defined in 40 CFR 1090.80 where a biointermediate is imported from outside the covered location into the covered location.


*Biointermediate importer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a biointermediate import facility.


*Biointermediate producer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a biointermediate production facility.


*Biointermediate production facility* means all of the activities and equipment associated with the production of a biointermediate starting from the point of delivery of feedstock material to the point of final storage of the end biointermediate product, which are located on one property, and are under the control of the same person (or persons under common control).


*Biomass-based diesel* means a renewable fuel that has lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions that are at least 50 percent less than baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions and meets all of the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition:


(1)(i) Is a transportation fuel, transportation fuel additive, heating oil, or jet fuel.


(ii) Meets the definition of either biodiesel or non-ester renewable diesel.


(iii) Is registered as a motor vehicle fuel or fuel additive under 40 CFR part 79, if the fuel or fuel additive is intended for use in a motor vehicle.


(2) Renewable fuel produced from renewable biomass that is co-processed with petroleum is not biomass-based diesel.


*Biomass-based sugars* means sugars (*e.g.,* dextrose, sucrose, etc.) extracted from renewable biomass under an approved pathway, other than through a form change specified in § 80.1460(k)(2).


*Biomethane* means methane produced from renewable biomass.


*B-RIN* means a RIN verified during the interim period by a registered independent third-party auditor using a QAP that has been approved under § 80.1469(b) following the audit process specified in § 80.1472.


*Business day* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1090.80.


*Canola/Rapeseed oil* means either of the following:


(1) *Canola oil* is oil from the plants *Brassica napus, Brassica rapa,**Brassica juncea, Sinapis alba,* or *Sinapis arvensis,* and which typically contains less than 2 percent erucic acid in the component fatty acids obtained.


(2) *Rapeseed oil* is the oil obtained from the plants *Brassica napus, Brassica rapa,* or *Brassica juncea.*

*Carrier* means any distributor who transports or stores or causes the transportation or storage of gasoline or diesel fuel without taking title to or otherwise having any ownership of the gasoline or diesel fuel, and without altering either the quality or quantity of the gasoline or diesel fuel.


*Category 3 (C3) marine vessels,* for the purposes of this part 80, are vessels that are propelled by engines meeting the definition of “Category 3” in 40 CFR 1042.901.


*CBOB* means gasoline blendstock that could become conventional gasoline solely upon the addition of oxygenate.


*Cellulosic biofuel* means renewable fuel derived from any cellulose, hemi-cellulose, or lignin that has lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions that are at least 60 percent less than the baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions.


*Cellulosic biogas feedstock* means an individual feedstock used to produce biogas that contains at least 75% average adjusted cellulosic content and whose batch pathway has been assigned a D code of 3 or 7.


*Cellulosic diesel* is any renewable fuel which meets both the definitions of cellulosic biofuel and biomass-based diesel. Cellulosic diesel includes heating oil and jet fuel produced from cellulosic feedstocks.


*Certified non-transportation 15 ppm distillate fuel* or *certified NTDF* means distillate fuel that meets all the following:


(1) The fuel has been certified under 40 CFR 1090.1000 as meeting the ULSD standards in 40 CFR 1090.305.


(2) The fuel has been designated under 40 CFR 1090.1015 as certified NTDF.


(3) The fuel has also been designated under 40 CFR 1090.1015 as 15 ppm heating oil, 15 ppm ECA marine fuel, or other non-transportation fuel (*e.g.,* jet fuel, kerosene, or distillate global marine fuel).


(4) The fuel has not been designated under 40 CFR 1090.1015 as ULSD or 15 ppm MVNRLM diesel fuel.


(5) The PTD for the fuel meets the requirements in § 80.1453(e).


*Combined heat and power (CHP),* also known as cogeneration, refers to industrial processes in which waste heat from the production of electricity is used for process energy in a biointermediate or renewable fuel production facility.


*Continuous measurement* means the automated measurement of specified parameters of biogas, treated biogas, or natural gas as follows:


(1) For in-line GC meters, automated measurement must occur and be recorded no less frequent than once every 15 minutes.


(2) For flow meters, automated measurement must occur no less frequent than once every 6 seconds, and weighted totals of such measurement must be recorded at no more than 1 minute intervals.


(3) For all other meters, automated measurement and recording must occur at a frequency specified at registration.


*Contractual affiliate* means one of the following:


(1) Two parties are contractual affiliates if they have an explicit or implicit agreement in place for one to purchase or hold RINs on behalf of the other or to deliver RINs to the other. This other party may or may not be registered under the RFS program.


(2) Two parties are contractual affiliates if one RIN-owning party purchases or holds RINs on behalf of the other. This other party may or may not be registered under the RFS program.


*Control area* means a geographic area in which only oxygenated gasoline under the oxygenated gasoline program may be sold or dispensed, with boundaries determined by Clean Air Act section 211(m) (42 U.S.C. 7545(m)).


*Control period* means the period during which oxygenated gasoline must be sold or dispensed in any control area, pursuant to Clean Air Act section 211(m)(2) (42 U.S.C. 7545(m)(2)).


*Conventional gasoline (CG)* means any gasoline that has been certified under 40 CFR 1090.1000(b) and is not RFG.


*Co-processed* means that renewable biomass or a biointermediate was simultaneously processed with fossil fuels or other non-renewable feedstock in the same unit or units to produce a fuel that is partially derived from renewable biomass or a biointermediate.


*Co-processed cellulosic diesel* is any renewable fuel that meets the definition of cellulosic biofuel and meets all the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition:


(1)(i) Is a transportation fuel, transportation fuel additive, heating oil, or jet fuel.


(ii) Meets the definition of either biodiesel or non-ester renewable diesel.


(iii) Is registered as a motor vehicle fuel or fuel additive under 40 CFR part 79, if the fuel or fuel additive is intended for use in a motor vehicle.


(2) Co-processed cellulosic diesel includes all the following:


(i) Heating oil and jet fuel produced from cellulosic feedstocks.


(ii) Cellulosic biofuel produced from cellulosic feedstocks co-processed with petroleum.


*Corn oil extraction* means the recovery of corn oil from the thin stillage and/or the distillers grains and solubles produced by a dry mill corn ethanol plant, most often by mechanical separation.


*Corn oil fractionation* means a process whereby seeds are divided in various components and oils are removed prior to fermentation for the production of ethanol.


*Corporate affiliate* means one of the following:


(1) Two RIN-holding parties are corporate affiliates if one owns or controls ownership of more than 20 percent of the other.


(2) Two RIN-holding parties are corporate affiliates if one parent company owns or controls ownership of more than 20 percent of both.


*Corporate affiliate group* means a group of parties in which each party is a corporate affiliate to at least one other party in the group.


*Covered location* means the contiguous 48 states, Hawaii, and any state or territory that has received an approval from EPA to opt-in to the RFS program under § 80.1443.


*Crop residue* means biomass left over from the harvesting or processing of planted crops from existing agricultural land and any biomass removed from existing agricultural land that facilitates crop management (including biomass removed from such lands in relation to invasive species control or fire management), whether or not the biomass includes any portion of a crop or crop plant. Biomass is considered crop residue only if the use of that biomass for the production of renewable fuel has no significant impact on demand for the feedstock crop, products produced from that feedstock crop, and all substitutes for the crop and its products, nor any other impact that would result in a significant increase in direct or indirect GHG emissions.


*Cropland* is land used for production of crops for harvest and includes cultivated cropland, such as for row crops or close-grown crops, and non-cultivated cropland, such as for horticultural or aquatic crops.


*Diesel fuel* means any of the following:


(1) Any fuel sold in any State or Territory of the United States and suitable for use in diesel engines, and that is one of the following:


(i) A distillate fuel commonly or commercially known or sold as No. 1 diesel fuel or No. 2 diesel fuel.


(ii) A non-distillate fuel other than residual fuel with comparable physical and chemical properties (*e.g.,* biodiesel fuel).


(iii) A mixture of fuels meeting the criteria of paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition.


(2) For purposes of subpart M of this part, any and all of the products specified at § 80.1407(e).


*Digestate* means the material that remains following the anaerobic digestion of renewable biomass in an anaerobic digester. Digestate must only contain the leftovers that were unable to be completely converted to biogas in an anaerobic digestor that is part of an EPA-accepted registration under § 80.1450.


*Distillate fuel* means diesel fuel and other petroleum fuels that can be used in engines that are designed for diesel fuel. For example, jet fuel, heating oil, kerosene, No. 4 fuel, DMX, DMA, DMB, and DMC are distillate fuels; and natural gas, LPG, gasoline, and residual fuel are not distillate fuels. Blends containing residual fuel may be distillate fuels.


*Distillers corn oil* means corn oil recovered at any point downstream of when a dry mill ethanol or butanol plant grinds the corn, provided that the corn starch is converted to ethanol or butanol, the recovered oil is unfit for human food use without further refining, and the distillers grains remaining after the dry mill and oil recovery processes are marketable as animal feed.


*Distillers sorghum oil* means grain sorghum oil recovered at any point downstream of when a dry mill ethanol or butanol plant grinds the grain sorghum, provided that the grain sorghum is converted to ethanol or butanol, the recovered oil is unfit for human food use without further refining, and the distillers grains remaining after the dry mill and oil recovery processes are marketable as animal feed.


*Distributor* means any person who transports or stores or causes the transportation or storage of gasoline or diesel fuel at any point between any gasoline or diesel fuel refinery or importer's facility and any retail outlet or wholesale purchaser-consumer's facility.


*DX RIN* means a RIN with a D code of X, where X is the D code of the renewable fuel as identified under § 80.1425(g), generated under § 80.1426, and submitted under § 80.1452. For example, a D6 RIN is a RIN with a D code of 6.


*ECA marine fuel* is diesel, distillate, or residual fuel that meets the criteria of paragraph (1) of this definition, but not the criteria of paragraph (2) of this definition.


(1) All diesel, distillate, or residual fuel used, intended for use, or made available for use in Category 3 marine vessels while the vessels are operating within an Emission Control Area (ECA), or an ECA associated area, is ECA marine fuel, unless it meets the criteria of paragraph (2) of this definition.


(2) ECA marine fuel does not include any of the following fuel:


(i) Fuel used by exempted or excluded vessels (such as exempted steamships), or fuel used by vessels allowed by the U.S. government pursuant to MARPOL Annex VI Regulation 3 or Regulation 4 to exceed the fuel sulfur limits while operating in an ECA or an ECA associated area (see 33 U.S.C. 1903).


(ii) Fuel that conforms fully to the requirements of this part for MVNRLM diesel fuel (including being designated as MVNRLM).


(iii) Fuel used, or made available for use, in any diesel engines not installed on a Category 3 marine vessel.


*Ecologically sensitive forestland* means forestland that meets either of the following criteria:


(1) An ecological community with a global or state ranking of critically imperiled, imperiled or rare pursuant to a State Natural Heritage Program. For examples of such ecological communities, see “Listing of Forest Ecological Communities Pursuant to 40 CFR 80.1401; S1-S3 communities,” which is number EPA-HQ-OAR-2005-0161-1034.1 in the public docket, and “Listing of Forest Ecological Communities Pursuant to 40 CFR 80.1401; G1-G2 communities,” which is number EPA-HQ-OAR-2005-0161-2906.1 in the public docket. This material is available for inspection at the EPA Docket Center, EPA/DC, EPA West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The telephone number for the Air Docket is (202) 566-1742.


(2) Old growth or late successional, characterized by trees at least 200 years in age.


*End of day* means 7 a.m. Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).


*Energy cane* means a complex hybrid in the Saccharum genus that has been bred to maximize cellulosic rather than sugar content. For the purposes of this part:


(1) Energy cane excludes the species *Saccharum spontaneum,* but may include hybrids derived from *S. spontaneum* that have been developed and publicly released by USDA; and


(2) Energy cane only includes cultivars that have, on average, at least 75% adjusted cellulosic content on a dry mass basis.


*EPA Moderated Transaction System (EMTS)* means a closed, EPA moderated system that provides a mechanism for screening and tracking RINs under § 80.1452.


*Existing agricultural land* is cropland, pastureland, and land enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency) that was cleared or cultivated prior to December 19, 2007, and that, on December 19, 2007, was:


(1) Nonforested; and


(2) Actively managed as agricultural land or fallow, as evidenced by records which must be traceable to the land in question, which must include one of the following:


(i) Records of sales of planted crops, crop residue, or livestock, or records of purchases for land treatments such as fertilizer, weed control, or seeding.


(ii) A written management plan for agricultural purposes.


(iii) Documented participation in an agricultural management program administered by a Federal, state, or local government agency.


(iv) Documented management in accordance with a certification program for agricultural products.


*Exporter of renewable fuel* means all buyers, sellers, and owners of the renewable fuel in any transaction that results in renewable fuel being transferred from a covered location to a destination outside of the covered locations.


*Facility* means all of the activities and equipment associated with the production of renewable fuel, biogas, treated biogas, RNG, or a biointermediate—starting from the point of delivery of feedstock material to the point of final storage of the end product—that are located on one property and are under the control of the same person (or persons under common control).


*Fallow* means cropland, pastureland, or land enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency) that is intentionally left idle to regenerate for future agricultural purposes with no seeding or planting, harvesting, mowing, or treatment during the fallow period.


*Feedstock aggregator* means any person who collects feedstock from feedstock suppliers or other feedstock aggregators and distributes such feedstock to a renewable fuel producer, biointermediate producer, or other feedstock aggregator.


*Feedstock supplier* means any person who generates and supplies feedstock to a feedstock aggregator, renewable fuel producer, biogas producer, or biointermediate producer.


*Foreign biogas producer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a biogas production facility outside of the United States.


*Foreign ethanol producer* means a foreign renewable fuel producer who produces ethanol for use in transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel but who does not add ethanol denaturant to their product as specified in paragraph (2) of the definition of “renewable fuel” in this section.


*Foreign renewable fuel producer* means a person from a foreign country or from an area outside the covered location who produces renewable fuel for use in transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel for export to the covered location. Foreign ethanol producers are considered foreign renewable fuel producers.


*Foreign RNG producer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises an RNG production facility outside of the United States.


*Forestland* is generally undeveloped land covering a minimum area of 1 acre upon which the primary vegetative species are trees, including land that formerly had such tree cover and that will be regenerated and tree plantations. Tree-covered areas in intensive agricultural crop production settings, such as fruit orchards, or tree-covered areas in urban settings, such as city parks, are not considered forestland.


*Free fatty acid (FFA) feedstock* means a biointermediate that is composed of at least 50 percent free fatty acids. FFA feedstock must not include any free fatty acids from the refining of crude palm oil.


*Fuel for use in an ocean-going vessel* means, for this part only:


(1) Any marine residual fuel (whether burned in ocean waters, Great Lakes, or other internal waters);


(2) Emission Control Area (ECA) marine fuel, pursuant to § 80.2 and 40 CFR 1090.80 (whether burned in ocean waters, Great Lakes, or other internal waters); and


(3) Any other fuel intended for use only in ocean-going vessels.


*Gasoline* means any of the following:


(1) Any fuel sold in the United States for use in motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines, and commonly or commercially known or sold as gasoline.


(2) For purposes of subpart M of this part, any and all of the products specified at § 80.1407(c).


*Gasoline blendstock* or *component* means any liquid compound that is blended with other liquid compounds to produce gasoline.


*Gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending (BOB)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1090.80.


*Gasoline treated as blendstock (GTAB)* means imported gasoline that is excluded from an import facility's compliance calculations, but is treated as blendstock in a related refinery that includes the GTAB in its refinery compliance calculations.


*Glycerin* means a coproduct from the production of biodiesel that primarily contains glycerol.


*Heating oil* means any of the following:


(1) Any No. 1, No. 2, or non-petroleum diesel blend that is sold for use in furnaces, boilers, and similar applications and which is commonly or commercially known or sold as heating oil, fuel oil, and similar trade names, and that is not jet fuel, kerosene, or MVNRLM diesel fuel.


(2) Any fuel oil that is used to heat or cool interior spaces of homes or buildings to control ambient climate for human comfort. The fuel oil must be liquid at STP and contain no more than 2.5% mass solids.


*Importer* means any person who imports transportation fuel or renewable fuel into the covered location from an area outside of the covered location.


*Independent third-party auditor* means a party meeting the requirements of § 80.1471(b) that conducts QAP audits and verifies RINs, biointermediates, or biogas.


*Interim period* means the period between February 21, 2013, and December 31, 2014.


*Jet fuel* means any distillate fuel used, intended for use, or made available for use in aircraft.


*Kerosene* means any No.1 distillate fuel commonly or commercially sold as kerosene.


*Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)* means a liquid hydrocarbon fuel that is stored under pressure and is composed primarily of species that are gases at atmospheric conditions (temperature = 25 °C and pressure = 1 atm), excluding natural gas.


*Locomotive engine* means an engine used in a locomotive as defined under 40 CFR 92.2.


*Marine engine* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1042.901.


*Membrane separation* means the process of dehydrating ethanol to fuel grade (>99.5% purity) using a hydrophilic membrane.


*Mixed digester* means an anaerobic digester that has received feedstocks under both an approved pathway with D code 3 or 7 and an approved pathway with D code 5 during the current calendar month or the previous two calendar months.


*Motor vehicle* has the meaning given in Section 216(2) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7550(2)).


*Municipal wastewater treatment facility digester* means an anaerobic digester that processes only municipal wastewater treatment plant sludge with an adjusted cellulosic content of at least 75%.


*MVNRLM diesel fuel* means any diesel fuel or other distillate fuel that is used, intended for use, or made available for use in motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines, or as a fuel in any nonroad diesel engines, including locomotive and marine diesel engines, except the following: Distillate fuel with a T90 at or above 700 °F that is used only in Category 2 and 3 marine engines is not MVNRLM diesel fuel, and ECA marine fuel is not MVNRLM diesel fuel (note that fuel that conforms to the requirements of MVNRLM diesel fuel is excluded from the definition of “ECA marine fuel” in this section without regard to its actual use). Use the distillation test method specified in 40 CFR 1065.1010 to determine the T90 of the fuel.


(1) Any diesel fuel that is sold for use in stationary engines that are required to meet the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.300, when such provisions are applicable to nonroad engines, is considered MVNRLM diesel fuel.


(2) [Reserved]


*Nameplate capacity* means the peak design capacity of a facility for the purposes of registration of a facility under this part.


*Naphtha* means a blendstock or fuel blending component falling within the boiling range of gasoline, which is composed of only hydrocarbons, is commonly or commercially known as naphtha, and is used to produce gasoline or E85 (as defined in 40 CFR 1090.80) through blending.


*Natural gas* means a fuel whose primary constituent is methane. Natural gas includes RNG.


*Natural gas commercial pipeline system* means one or more connected pipelines that transport natural gas that meets all the following:


(1) The natural gas originates from multiple parties.


(2) The natural gas meets specifications set by the pipeline owner or operator.


(3) The natural gas is delivered to multiple parties in the covered location.


*Neat renewable fuel* is a renewable fuel to which 1% or less of gasoline (as defined in this section) or diesel fuel has been added.


*Non-ester renewable diesel* or *renewable diesel* means renewable fuel that is not a mono-alkyl ester and that is either:


(1) A fuel or fuel additive that meets the Grade No. 1-D or No. 2-D specification in ASTM D975 (incorporated by reference, see § 80.12) and can be used in an engine designed to operate on conventional diesel fuel; or


(2) A fuel or fuel additive that is registered under 40 CFR part 79 and can be used in an engine designed to operate using conventional diesel fuel.


*Nonforested land* means land that is not forestland.


*Non-petroleum diesel* means a diesel fuel that contains at least 80 percent mono-alkyl esters of long chain fatty acids derived from vegetable oils or animal fats.


*Non-qualifying fuel use* means a use of renewable fuel in an application other than transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel.


*Non-renewable component* means any material (or any portion thereof) blended into biogas or RNG that does not meet the definition of renewable biomass.


*Non-renewable feedstock* means a feedstock (or any portion thereof) that does not meet the definition of renewable biomass or biointermediate.


*Non-RIN-generating foreign producer* means a foreign renewable fuel producer that has been registered by EPA to produce renewable fuel for which RINs have not been generated.


*Nonroad diesel engine* means an engine that is designed to operate with diesel fuel that meets the definition of nonroad engine in 40 CFR 1068.30, including locomotive and marine diesel engines.


*Nonroad vehicle* has the meaning given in Section 216(11) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7550(11)).


*Obligated party* means any refiner that produces gasoline or diesel fuel within the covered location, or any importer that imports gasoline or diesel fuel into the covered location, during a compliance period. A party that simply blends renewable fuel into gasoline or diesel fuel, as specified in § 80.1407(c) or (e), is not an obligated party.


*Ocean-going vessel* means vessels that are equipped with engines meeting the definition of “Category 3” in 40 CFR 1042.901.


*Oxygenate* means any substance which, when added to gasoline, increases the oxygen content of that gasoline. Lawful use of any of the substances or any combination of these substances requires that they be “substantially similar” under section 211(f)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(f)(1)), or be permitted under a waiver granted by EPA under the authority of section 211(f)(4) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(f)(4)).


*Oxygenated gasoline* means gasoline which contains a measurable amount of oxygenate.


*Pastureland* is land managed for the production of select indigenous or introduced forage plants for livestock grazing or hay production, and to prevent succession to other plant types.


*Permitted capacity* means 105% of the maximum permissible volume output of renewable fuel that is allowed under operating conditions specified in the most restrictive of all applicable preconstruction, construction and operating permits issued by regulatory authorities (including local, regional, state or a foreign equivalent of a state, and federal permits, or permits issued by foreign governmental agencies) that govern the construction and/or operation of the renewable fuel facility, based on an annual volume output on a calendar year basis. If the permit specifies maximum rated volume output on an hourly basis, then annual volume output is determined by multiplying the hourly output by 8,322 hours per year.


(1) For facilities that commenced construction prior to December 19, 2007, the permitted capacity is based on permits issued or revised no later than December 19, 2007.


(2) For facilities that commenced construction after December 19, 2007 and before January 1, 2010 that are fired with natural gas, biomass, or a combination thereof, the permitted capacity is based on permits issued or revised no later than December 31, 2009.


(3) For facilities other than those specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, permitted capacity is based on the most recent applicable permits.


*Pipeline interconnect* means the physical injection or withdrawal point where RNG is injected or withdrawn into or from the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


*Planted crops* are all annual or perennial agricultural crops from existing agricultural land that may be used as feedstocks for renewable fuel, such as grains, oilseeds, sugarcane, switchgrass, prairie grass, duckweed, and other species (but not including algae species or planted trees), providing that they were intentionally applied by humans to the ground, a growth medium, a pond or tank, either by direct application as seed or plant, or through intentional natural seeding or vegetative propagation by mature plants introduced or left undisturbed for that purpose.


*Planted trees* are trees harvested from a tree plantation.


*Pre-commercial thinnings* are trees, including unhealthy or diseased trees, removed to reduce stocking to concentrate growth on more desirable, healthy trees, or other vegetative material that is removed to promote tree growth.


*Professional liability insurance* means insurance coverage for liability arising out of the performance of professional or business duties related to a specific occupation, with coverage being tailored to the needs of the specific occupation. Examples include abstracters, accountants, insurance adjusters, architects, engineers, insurance agents and brokers, lawyers, real estate agents, stockbrokers, and veterinarians. For purposes of this definition, professional liability insurance does not include directors and officers liability insurance.


*Q-RIN* means a RIN verified by a registered independent third-party auditor using a QAP that has been approved under § 80.1469(c) following the audit process specified in § 80.1472.


*Quality assurance audit* means an audit of a renewable fuel production facility or biointermediate production facility conducted by an independent third-party auditor in accordance with a QAP that meets the requirements of §§ 80.1469, 80.1472, and 80.1477.


*Quality assurance plan (QAP)* means the list of elements that an independent third-party auditor will check to verify that the RINs generated by a renewable fuel producer or importer are valid or to verify the appropriate production of a biointermediate. A QAP includes both general and pathway specific elements.


*Raw starch hydrolysis* means the process of hydrolyzing corn starch into simple sugars at low temperatures, generally not exceeding 100 °F (38 °C), using enzymes designed to be effective under these conditions.


*Refiner* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a refinery.


*Refinery* means any facility, including but not limited to, a plant, tanker truck, or vessel where gasoline or diesel fuel is produced, including any facility at which blendstocks are combined to produce gasoline or diesel fuel, or at which blendstock is added to gasoline or diesel fuel.


*Reformulated gasoline (RFG)* means any gasoline whose formulation has been certified under 40 CFR 1090.1000(b), and which meets each of the standards and requirements prescribed under 40 CFR 1090.220.


*Reformulated gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending (RBOB)* means a petroleum product that, when blended with a specified type and percentage of oxygenate, meets the definition of reformulated gasoline, and to which the specified type and percentage of oxygenate is added other than by the refiner or importer of the RBOB at the refinery or import facility where the RBOB is produced or imported.


*Renewable biomass* means each of the following (including any incidental, de minimis contaminants that are impractical to remove and are related to customary feedstock production and transport):


(1) Planted crops and crop residue harvested from existing agricultural land cleared or cultivated prior to December 19, 2007 and that was nonforested and either actively managed or fallow on December 19, 2007.


(2) Planted trees and tree residue from a tree plantation located on non-federal land (including land belonging to an Indian tribe or an Indian individual that is held in trust by the U.S. or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the U.S.) that was cleared at any time prior to December 19, 2007 and actively managed on December 19, 2007.


(3) Animal waste material and animal byproducts.


(4) Slash and pre-commercial thinnings from non-federal forestland (including forestland belonging to an Indian tribe or an Indian individual, that are held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States) that is not ecologically sensitive forestland.


(5) Biomass (organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis) obtained from within 200 feet of buildings and other areas regularly occupied by people, or of public infrastructure, in an area at risk of wildfire.


(6) Algae.


(7) Separated yard waste or food waste, including recycled cooking and trap grease.


*Renewable compressed natural gas* or *renewable CNG* means biogas, treated biogas, or RNG that is compressed for use as transportation fuel and meets the definition of renewable fuel.


*Renewable electricity* means electricity that meets the definition of renewable fuel.


*Renewable fuel* means a fuel that meets all the following requirements:


(1)(i) Fuel that is produced either from renewable biomass or from a biointermediate produced from renewable biomass.


(ii) Fuel that is used in the covered location to replace or reduce the quantity of fossil fuel present in a transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel.


(iii) Has lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions that are at least 20 percent less than baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions, unless the fuel is exempt from this requirement pursuant to § 80.1403.


(2) Ethanol covered by this definition must be denatured using an ethanol denaturant as required in 27 CFR parts 19 through 21. Any volume of ethanol denaturant added to the undenatured ethanol by a producer or importer in excess of 2 volume percent must not be included in the volume of ethanol for purposes of determining compliance with the requirements of this part.


*Renewable gasoline* means renewable fuel produced from renewable biomass that is composed of only hydrocarbons and that meets the definition of gasoline.


*Renewable gasoline blendstock* means a blendstock produced from renewable biomass that is composed of only hydrocarbons and which meets the definition of gasoline blendstock in § 80.2.


*Renewable Identification Number (RIN)* is a unique number generated to represent a volume of renewable fuel pursuant to §§ 80.1425 and 80.1426.


(1) *Gallon-RIN* is a RIN that represents an individual gallon of renewable fuel used for compliance purposes pursuant to § 80.1427 to satisfy a renewable volume obligation.


(2) *Batch-RIN* is a RIN that represents multiple gallon-RINs.


*Renewable liquefied natural gas* or *renewable LNG* means biogas, treated biogas, or RNG that is liquified (*i.e.,* it is cooled below its boiling point) for use as transportation fuel and meets the definition of renewable fuel.


*Renewable natural gas (RNG)* means a product that meets all the following requirements:


(1) It is produced from biogas.


(2) It does not require removal of additional components to be suitable for injection into the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(3) It is used to produce renewable fuel.


*Residual fuel* means a petroleum fuel that can only be used in diesel engines if it is preheated before injection. For example, No. 5 fuels, No. 6 fuels, and RM grade marine fuels are residual fuels. Note: Residual fuels do not necessarily require heating for storage or pumping.


*Responsible corporate officer (RCO)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1090.80.


*Retail outlet* means any establishment at which gasoline, diesel fuel, natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas is sold or offered for sale for use in motor vehicles or nonroad engines, including locomotive or marine engines.


*Retailer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a retail outlet.


*RIN-generating foreign producer* means a foreign renewable fuel producer that has been registered by EPA to generate RINs for renewable fuel it produces.


*RIN generator* means any party allowed to generate RINs under this part.


*RIN-less RNG* means RNG produced by a foreign RNG producer and for which RINs were not generated by the foreign RNG producer.


*RNG importer* means any person who imports RNG into the covered location and generates RINs for the RNG as specified in § 80.125.


*RNG producer* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises an RNG production facility.


*RNG production facility* means a facility where biogas is upgraded to RNG under an approved pathway.


*RNG RIN separator* means any person registered to separate RINs for RNG under § 80.125(d).


*RNG used as a feedstock* or *RNG as a feedstock* means any RNG used to produce renewable fuel under § 80.125.


*Separated food waste* means a feedstock stream consisting of food waste kept separate since generation from other waste materials, and which includes food and beverage production waste and post-consumer food and beverage waste.


*Separated municipal solid waste* or *separated MSW* means material remaining after separation actions have been taken to remove recyclable paper, cardboard, plastics, rubber, textiles, metals, and glass from municipal solid waste, and which is composed of both cellulosic and non-cellulosic materials.


*Separated RIN* means a RIN with a K code of 2 that has been separated from a volume of renewable fuel or RNG pursuant to § 80.1429.


*Separated yard waste* means a feedstock stream consisting of yard waste kept separate since generation from other waste materials.


*Slash* is the residue, including treetops, branches, and bark, left on the ground after logging or accumulating as a result of a storm, fire, delimbing, or other similar disturbance.


*Small refinery* means a refinery for which the average aggregate daily crude oil throughput (as determined by dividing the aggregate throughput for the calendar year by the number of days in the calendar year) does not exceed 75,000 barrels.


*Soapstock* means an emulsion, or the oil obtained from separation of that emulsion, produced by washing oils listed as a feedstock in an approved pathway with water.


*Standard temperature and pressure (STP)* means 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 1 atmosphere of pressure.


*Transportation fuel* means fuel for use in motor vehicles, motor vehicle engines, nonroad vehicles, or nonroad engines (except fuel for use in ocean-going vessels).


*Treated biogas* means a product that meets all the following requirements:


(1) It is produced from biogas.


(2) It does not require removal of additional components to be suitable for its designated use (*e.g.,* as a biointermediate or to produce biogas-derived renewable fuel).


(3) It is used in a biogas closed distribution system as a biointermediate or to produce biogas-derived renewable fuel.


*Tree plantation* is a stand of no less than 1 acre composed primarily of trees established by hand- or machine-planting of a seed or sapling, or by coppice growth from the stump or root of a tree that was hand- or machine-planted. Tree plantations must have been cleared prior to December 19, 2007 and must have been actively managed on December 19, 2007, as evidenced by records which must be traceable to the land in question, which must include:


(1) Sales records for planted trees or tree residue together with other written documentation connecting the land in question to these purchases;


(2) Purchasing records for seeds, seedlings, or other nursery stock together with other written documentation connecting the land in question to these purchases;


(3) A written management plan for silvicultural purposes;


(4) Documentation of participation in a silvicultural program sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency;


(5) Documentation of land management in accordance with an agricultural or silvicultural product certification program;


(6) An agreement for land management consultation with a professional forester that identifies the land in question; or


(7) Evidence of the existence and ongoing maintenance of a road system or other physical infrastructure designed and maintained for logging use, together with one of the above-mentioned documents.


*Tree residue* is slash and any woody residue generated during the processing of planted trees from tree plantations for use in lumber, paper, furniture, or other applications, provided that such woody residue is not mixed with similar residue from trees that do not originate in tree plantations.


*Undenatured ethanol* means a liquid that meets one of the definitions in paragraph (1) of this definition:


(1)(i) Ethanol that has not been denatured as required in 27 CFR parts 19 through 21.


(ii) Specially denatured alcohol as defined in 27 CFR 21.11.


(2) Undenatured ethanol is not renewable fuel.


*United States* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1090.80.


*Verification status* means a description of whether biogas, treated biogas, RNG, or a RIN has been verified under an EPA-approved quality assurance plan.


*Verified RIN* means a RIN generated by a renewable fuel producer that was subject to a QAP audit executed by an independent third-party auditor, and determined by the independent third-party auditor to be valid. Verified RINs includes A-RINs, B-RINs, and Q-RINs.


*Wholesale purchaser-consumer* means any person that is an ultimate consumer of gasoline, diesel fuel, natural gas, or liquefied petroleum gas and which purchases or obtains gasoline, diesel fuel, natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas from a supplier for use in motor vehicles or nonroad engines, including locomotive or marine engines and, in the case of gasoline, diesel fuel, or liquefied petroleum gas, receives delivery of that product into a storage tank of at least 550-gallon capacity substantially under the control of that person.



---

[N] [88 FR 44555, July 12, 2023]




