# § 212.10   Policy and procedures.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Confidential commercial information* means commercial or financial information obtained by the Agency from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).


(2) *Business submitter* means any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.


(b) *Designation of confidential commercial information.* A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or within a reasonable time thereafter, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations shall expire 10 years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.


(c) *When notice to business submitters is required.* (1) The component's FOIA office shall promptly provide written notice to a business submitter of confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if, after reviewing the request, the responsive records, and any appeal by the requester, the component's FOIA office determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:


(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the business submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or


(ii) The component's FOIA office has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure under that exemption or any other applicable exemption.


(2) The notice shall either describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, notice may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to accomplish it.


(d) *Exceptions to business submitter notice requirements.* The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:


(1) The component's FOIA office determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA;


(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;


(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or


(4) The designation made by the business submitter appears obviously frivolous, except that, in such a case, the component's FOIA office shall give the business submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information and must provide that notice within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.


(e) *Opportunity to object to disclosure.* (1) The component's FOIA office shall specify a reasonable time period within which the business submitter must respond to the notice referenced in paragraph (c) of this section. If a business submitter has any objections to disclosure, the business submitter should:


(i) Provide the component's FOIA office with a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for nondisclosure, the business submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.


(ii) [Reserved].


(2) A business submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. Information received by the component's FOIA office after the date of any disclosure decision shall not be considered by the component's FOIA office. Any information provided by a business submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.


(f) *Analysis of objections.* The component's FOIA office shall consider a business submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.


(g) *Notice of intent to disclose.* Whenever the component's FOIA office decides to disclose information over the objection of a business submitter, the component's FOIA office shall provide the business submitter written notice, which shall include:


(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the business submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;


(2) A description of the information to be disclosed; and


(3) A specified disclosure date, which shall be a reasonable time subsequent to the notice.


(h) *Notice of FOIA lawsuit.* Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the component's FOIA office shall promptly notify the business submitter.


(i) *Requester notification.* The component's FOIA office shall notify the requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.




