# § 63.8244   How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate continuous compliance?

(a) *Continuous monitoring option.* You must monitor mercury concentration according to § 63.8242(a) at all times that the affected source is operating with the exception of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) Except for monitor malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must monitor mercury emissions continuously (or collect data at all required intervals) at all times that the affected source is operating. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.


(2) You may not use data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities in data averages and calculations used to report emission or operating levels or to fulfill a minimum data availability requirement, if applicable. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance. 


(b) *Periodic monitoring option.* If you choose the periodic monitoring option under § 63.8240(b), you must monitor according to the procedures in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. 


(1) If your final control device is a nonregenerable carbon adsorber, then you must conduct at least three test runs per week meeting the criteria specified in § 63.8232(c)(1) and (2) to measure mercury emissions using the test methods specified in § 63.8232(d). Alternatively, you may use any other method that has been validated using the applicable procedures in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. 


(2) If your final control device is anything other than a nonregenerable carbon adsorber, you must monitor according to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. 


(i) You must conduct at least three test runs per week meeting the criteria specified in § 63.8232(c)(1) and (2) to measure mercury emissions using the test methods specified in § 63.8232(d). Alternatively, you may use any other method that has been validated using the applicable procedures in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. 


(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, you must continuously collect data at least once every 15 minutes using a CPMS installed and operated according to § 63.8242(b) and record each 1-hour average from all measured data values during each 1-hour period for the applicable parameter identified in § 63.8232(f)(1) using the methods specified in § 63.8244(a). 


(iii) As appropriate, you must continuously monitor the temperature specified in § 63.8232(f)(1)(vii) during each heating phase of the regeneration cycle of your carbon adsorber. 


(iv) If the hourly average monitoring value of any applicable parameter recorded under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is below the minimum monitoring value or above the maximum monitoring value of that same parameter established under § 63.8232(f)(2) for 24 consecutive hours, your monitoring value is out of range and you must take corrective action as soon as practicable. The hourly average monitoring value must be above the minimum monitoring value or below the maximum monitoring value as appropriate for that parameter, within 48 hours of the period that the monitoring value is out of range. 


(v) If your final control device is a regenerative carbon adsorber, when the maximum hourly value of the temperature measured according to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section is below the reference temperature determined according to § 63.8232(f)(2) for three consecutive regeneration cycles, your monitoring value is out of range and you must take corrective action as soon as practicable. During the first regeneration cycle following the period that your monitoring value is out of range, the maximum hourly value must be above the reference temperature recorded according to § 63.8232(f)(2). 




