# ยง 250.56   Provision of donated foods in NSLP.

(a) *Distribution of donated foods in NSLP.* The Department provides donated foods in NSLP to distributing agencies. Distributing agencies provide donated foods to school food authorities that participate in NSLP for use in serving nutritious lunches or other meals to schoolchildren in their nonprofit school food service. The distributing agency must confirm the participation of school food authorities in NSLP with the State administering agency (if different from the distributing agency). In addition to requirements in this part relating to donated foods, distributing agencies and school food authorities in NSLP must adhere to Federal regulations in 7 CFR part 210, as applicable.


(b) *Types of donated foods distributed.* The Department purchases a wide variety of foods for distribution in NSLP each school year. A list of available foods is posted on the FNS Web site, for access by distributing agencies and school food authorities. In addition to Section 6 foods (42 U.S.C. 1755) as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the distributing agency may also receive Section 14 donated foods (42 U.S.C. 1762(a)), and donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available.


(c) *National per-meal value of donated foods.* For each school year, the distributing agency receives, at a minimum, the national per-meal value of donated foods, as established by Section 6(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)), multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served in the State in the previous school year. The donated foods provided in this manner are referred to as Section 6 foods, or entitlement foods. The national per-meal value is adjusted each year to reflect changes in the Bureau of Labor Statistic's Producer Price Index for Foods Used in Schools and Institutions, in accordance with the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act. The adjusted value is published in a notice in the _Federal Register_ in July of each year. Reimbursable lunches are those that meet the nutritional standards established in 7 CFR part 210, and that are reported to FNS, in accordance with the requirements in that part.


(d) *Donated food values used to credit distributing agency entitlement levels.* FNS uses the average price (cost per pound) for USDA purchases of donated food made in a contract period to credit distributing agency entitlement levels.


(e) *Cash in lieu of donated foods.* States that phased out their food distribution facilities prior to July 1, 1974, are permitted to choose to receive cash in lieu of the donated foods to which they would be entitled in NSLP, in accordance with the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1765) and with 7 CFR part 240.




