# ยง 280.4   What definitions apply to this program?

(a) *Definitions in EDGAR.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 34 CFR part 77:


(b) *Definitions that apply to this program.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Act* means the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 as amended by title V, Part C of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-110 (20 U.S.C. 7231-7231j).


*Desegregation,* in reference to a plan, means a plan for the reassignment of children or faculty to remedy the illegal separation of minority group children or faculty in the schools of an LEA or a plan for the reduction, elimination, or prevention of minority group isolation in one or more of the schools of an LEA.


*Feeder school* means a school from which students are drawn to attend a magnet school. 


*Magnet school* means a public elementary school, public secondary school, public elementary education center, or public secondary education center that offers a special curriculum capable of attracting substantial numbers of students of different racial backgrounds.


*Minority group* means the following:


(1) *American Indian or Alaskan Native.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North America, and who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition.


(2) *Asian of Pacific Islander.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China, India, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, and Samoa.


(3) *Black (Not of Hispanic Origin).* A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(4) *Hispanic.* A person of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. 


*Special curriculum* means a course of study embracing subject matter or a teaching methodology that is not generally offered to students of the same age or grade level in the same LEA or consortium of LEAs, as the students to whom the special curriculum is offered in the magnet schools. This term does not include:


(1) A course of study or a part of a course of study designed solely to provide basic educational services to handicapped students or to students of limited English-speaking ability; 


(2) A course of study or a part of a course of study in which any student is unable to participate because of his or her limited English-speaking ability; 


(3) A course of study or a part of a course of study in which any student is unable to participate because of his or her limited financial resources; or


(4) A course of study or a part of a course of study that fails to provide for a participating student's meeting the requirements for completion of elementary or secondary education in the same period as other students enrolled in the applicant's schools.



---

[N] [50 FR 21191, May 22, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 20414, June 4, 1986; 54 FR 19508, 19509, May 5, 1989; 57 FR 61509, Dec. 24, 1992; 60 FR 14865, Mar. 20, 1995; 69 FR 4996, Feb. 2, 2004; 75 FR 9780, Mar. 4, 2010] 




