# § 108.451   CO

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each cylinder of a CO_2_ system must be outside each space protected by the system and in a location that would be accessible if a fire occurred in any space protected by the system. 


(b) A CO_2_ system that has a CO_2_ supply of 136 kilograms (300 pounds) or less may have one or more cylinders in the space protected by the system if the space has a heat detection system to activate the system automatically in addition to the remote and manual controls required by this subpart.


(c) Each space that contains cylinders of a CO_2_ system must be ventilated and designed to prevent an ambient temperature of more than 54 °C. (130 °F.)


(d) Each cylinder in a CO_2_ system must be securely fastened, supported, protected from damage, in an accessible location, and capable of removal from that location.


(e) Each unit must have a means for weighing cylinders of a CO_2_ system.


(f) A cylinder in a CO_2_ system may not be mounted in a position that is inclined more than 30° from a vertical position, except that a cylinder having flexible or bent siphon tubes may be mounted in a position that is inclined up to 80° from the vertical. The bottom of each cylinder when mounted must be at least 5 centimeters (2 inches) from the deck.


(g) If a cylinder does not have a check valve on its independent cylinder discharge, it must have a plug or cap to close the outlet when the cylinder is moved.



---

[N] [CGD 73-251, 43 FR 56808, Dec. 4, 1978, as amended by CGD 84-044, 53 FR 7749, Mar. 10, 1988]




