# § 135.3   Rules applicable to operations subject to this part.

(a) Each person operating an aircraft in operations under this part shall—


(1) While operating inside the United States, comply with the applicable rules of this chapter; and


(2) While operating outside the United States, comply with Annex 2, Rules of the Air, to the Convention on International Civil Aviation or the regulations of any foreign country, whichever applies, and with any rules of parts 61 and 91 of this chapter and this part that are more restrictive than that Annex or those regulations and that can be complied with without violating that Annex or those regulations. Annex 2 is incorporated by reference in § 91.703(b) of this chapter.


(b) Each certificate holder that conducts commuter operations under this part with airplanes in which two pilots are required by the type certification rules of this chapter shall comply with subparts N and O of part 121 of this chapter instead of the requirements of subparts E, G, and H of this part. Notwithstanding the requirements of this paragraph, a pilot serving under this part as second in command in a commuter operation with airplanes in which two pilots are required by the type certification rules of this chapter may meet the requirements of § 135.245 instead of the requirements of § 121.436.


(c) If authorized by the Administrator upon application, each certificate holder that conducts operations under this part to which paragraph (b) of this section does not apply, may comply with the applicable sections of subparts N and O of part 121 instead of the requirements of subparts E, G, and H of this part, except that those authorized certificate holders may choose to comply with the operating experience requirements of § 135.244, instead of the requirements of § 121.434 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the requirements of this paragraph, a pilot serving under this part as second in command may meet the requirements of § 135.245 instead of the requirements of § 121.436.


(d) Additional limitations applicable to certificate holders that are required by paragraph (b) of this section or authorized in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, to comply with part 121, subparts N and O of this chapter instead of subparts E, G, and H of this part.


(1) *Upgrade training.* (i) Each certificate holder must include in upgrade ground training for pilots, instruction in at least the subjects identified in § 121.419(a) of this chapter, as applicable to their assigned duties; and, for pilots serving in crews of two or more pilots, instruction and facilitated discussion in the subjects identified in § 121.419(c) of this chapter.


(ii) Each certificate holder must include in upgrade flight training for pilots, flight training for the maneuvers and procedures required in § 121.424(a), (c), (e), and (f) of this chapter; and, for pilots serving in crews of two or more pilots, the flight training required in § 121.424(b) of this chapter.


(2) Initial and recurrent leadership and command and mentoring training. Certificate holders are not required to include leadership and command training in §§ 121.409(b)(2)(ii)(F), 121.419(c)(1), 121.424(b) and 121.427(d)(1) of this chapter and mentoring training in §§ 121.419(c)(2) and 121.427(d)(1) of this chapter in initial and recurrent training for pilots in command who serve in operations that use only one pilot.


(3) *One-time leadership and command and mentoring training.* Section 121.429 of this chapter does not apply to certificate holders conducting operations under this part when those operations use only one pilot.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 27993, 60 FR 65949, Dec. 20, 1995, as amended by Amdt. 135-65, 61 FR 30435, June 14, 1996; Amdt. 135-127A, 78 FR 77574, Dec. 24, 2013; Docket FAA-2010-0100, Amdt. 135-127B, 81 FR 2, Jan. 4, 2016; Amdt. 135-142, 85 FR 10935, Feb. 25, 2020; Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 135-145, 89 FR 51430, June 18, 2024]






