# § 1007.8   Action on appeals.

(a) *Authority.* Appeals shall be decided by the Executive Director after consultation with the FOIA Officer and the General Counsel.


(b) *Time limit.* A final determination shall be made within 20 working days after receipt of an appeal meeting the requirements of § 1007.7(c).


(c) *Extensions of time.* (1) If the time limit for responding to the initial request for a record was not extended under the provisions of § 1007.6(c) or was extended for fewer than ten working days, the time for processing of the appeal may be extended to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the appeal, but in no event may the extension, when taken together with any extension made during processing of the initial request, result in an aggregate extension with respect to any one request of more than ten working days. The time for processing of an appeal may be extended only if one or more of the unusual circumstances listed in § 1007.6(c) requires an extension.


(2) The appellant shall be advised in writing of the reasons for the extension and the date on which a final determination on the appeal is expected to be dispatched.


(3) If no determination on the appeal has been reached at the end of the 20 working day period, or the extension thereof, the requester is deemed to have exhausted administrative remedies, giving rise to a right of review in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4).


(4) When no determination can be reached within the applicable time limit, the appeal will nevertheless continue to be processed. On expiration of the time limit, the requester shall be informed of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be reached to be dispatched, of the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services, and of the right to seek judicial review.


(5) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.


(d) *Form of decision.* (1) The final determination on an appeal shall be in writing and shall state the basis for the determination. If the determination is to release the requested records or portions thereof, the FOIA Officer shall immediately make the records available. If the determination upholds in whole or part the initial denial of a request for records, the determination shall advise the requester of the right to obtain judicial review in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and shall set forth the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial. The determination shall also inform the requester of the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services. Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If the Presidio Trust agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.


(2) If a requested record (or portion thereof) is being made available over the objections of a submitter made in accordance with § 1007.4(c), the submitter shall be provided notice as described in § 1007.5(b)(3).



---

[N] [83 FR 50832, Oct. 10, 2018]














