# ยง 7.96   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in subparts A and E of this part, the following definitions apply in this subpart. 


*Cylindrical joint.* A joint comprised of two contiguous, concentric, cylindrical surfaces. 


*Diesel power package.* A diesel engine with an intake system, exhaust system, and a safety shutdown system installed. 


*Dry exhaust conditioner.* An exhaust conditioner that cools the exhaust gas without direct contact with water. 


*Exhaust conditioner.* An enclosure, containing a cooling system, through which the exhaust gases pass. 


*Exhaust system.* A system connected to the outlet of the diesel engine which includes, but is not limited to, the exhaust manifold, the exhaust pipe, the exhaust conditioner, the exhaust flame arrester, and any adapters between the exhaust manifold and exhaust flame arrester. 


*Fastening.* A bolt, screw, or stud used to secure adjoining parts to prevent the escape of flame from the diesel power package. 


*Flame arrester.* A device so constructed that flame or sparks from the diesel engine cannot propagate an explosion of a flammable mixture through it. 


*Flame arresting path (explosion-proof joint).* Two or more adjoining or adjacent surfaces between which the escape of flame is prevented. 


*Flammable mixture.* A mixture of methane or natural gas with normal air, that will propagate flame or explode when ignited. 


*Grade.* The slope of an incline expressed as a percent. 


*High idle speed.* The maximum no load speed specified by the engine manufacturer. 


*Intake system.* A system connected to the inlet of the diesel engine which includes, but is not limited to, the intake manifold, the intake flame arrester, the emergency intake air shutoff device, the air cleaner, and all piping and adapters between the intake manifold and air cleaner. 


*Plane joint.* A joint comprised of two adjoining surfaces in parallel planes. 


*Safety shutdown system.* A system which, in response to signals from various safety sensors, recognizes the existence of a potential hazardous condition and automatically shuts off the fuel supply to the engine. 


*Step (rabbet) joint.* A joint comprised of two adjoining surfaces with a change or changes in direction between its inner and outer edges. A step joint may be composed of a cylindrical portion and a plane portion or of two or more plane portions. 


*Threaded joint.* A joint consisting of a male- and female-threaded member, both of which are the same type and gauge. 


*Wet exhaust conditioner.* An exhaust conditioner that cools the exhaust gas through direct contact with water, commonly called a water scrubber. 




