# ยง 15b.12   Discrimination prohibited.

(a) *General.* (1) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicapped, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity receiving assistance from this Department. 


(2) A recipient shall make all decisions concerning employment in a manner which ensures that discrimination on the basis of handicap does not occur and may not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way that adversely affects their opportunities or status because of handicap.


(3) A recipient may not participate in a contractural or other relationship that has the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped applicants or employees to discrimination prohibited by this subpart. This includes relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient, and with organizations providing training and apprenticeships. 


(4) All provisions of this subpart pertaining to employment, apply equally to volunteer service. 


(b) *Specific activities.* The provisions of this subpart apply to: 


(1) Recruitment, advertising, and the processing of applications for employment; 


(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right to return from layoff, and rehiring; 


(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation; 


(4) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists; 


(5) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave; 


(6) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient; 


(7) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training; 


(8) Employer sponsored activities, including those that are social or recreational; and


(9) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment. 


(c) A recipient's obligation to comply with this subpart is not affected by any inconsistent term of any collective bargaining agreement to which it is a party. 



---

[N] [47 FR 25470, June 11, 1982, as amended at 68 FR 51343, Aug. 26, 2003]




