# ยง 21.422   Reduction in subsistence allowance following the loss of a dependent.

(a) *Notice of reduction required when a veteran loses a dependent.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, VA will not reduce an award of subsistence allowance following the veteran's loss of a dependent unless:


(i) VA has notified the veteran of the adverse action, and


(ii) VA has provided the veteran with a period of 60 days in which to submit evidence for the purpose of showing that subsistence allowance should not be reduced.


(2) When the reduction is based solely on written, factual, unambiguous information as to dependency provided by the veteran or his or her fiduciary with knowledge or notice that the information would be used to determine the monthly rate of subsistence allowance;


(i) VA is not required to send a pre-reduction notice as stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but;


(ii) VA will send notice contemporaneous with the reduction in subsistence allowance.


(b) *Pre-reduction notice.* Where a reduction in subsistence allowance is proposed by reason of information concerning dependency received from a source other than the veteran, VA will:


(1) Prepared a proposal for the reduction of subsistence allowance, setting forth material facts and reasons;


(2) Notify the veteran at his or her latest address of record of the proposed action;


(3) Furnish detailed reasons for the proposed reduction;


(4) Inform the veteran that he or she has an opportunity for a predetermination hearing, provided that VA receives a request for such a hearing within 30 days from the date of the notice; and


(5) Give the veteran 60 days for the presentation of additional evidence to show that the subsistence allowance should be continued at its present level.


(c) *Predetermination hearing.* (1) If VA receives a timely request for a predetermination hearing as indicated in paragraph (b)(4) of this section:


(i) VA will notify the veteran in writing of the date, time and place for the hearing; and


(ii) Payments of subsistence allowance will continue at the previously established level pending a final determination concerning the proposed reduction.


(2) The hearing will be conducted by a VA employee who:


(i) Did not participate in the preparation of the proposal to reduce the veteran's subsistence allowance, and


(ii) Will bear the decision-making responsibility.


(d) *Final action.* VA will take final action following the predetermination procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) If a predetermination hearing was not requested or if the veteran failed to report for a scheduled predetermination hearing, the final action will be based solely upon the evidence of record at the expiration of 60 days.


(2) If a predetermination hearing was conducted, VA will base final action upon:


(i) Evidence presented at the hearing;


(ii) Evidence contained in the claims file at the time of the hearing; and


(iii) Any additional evidence obtained following the hearing pursuant to necessary development.


(3) Whether or not a predetermination hearing was conducted, a written notice of the final action shall be issued to the veteran setting forth the reasons for the decision, and the evidence upon which it is based. The veteran will be informed of his or her appellate rights and right of representation. (For information concerning the conduct of the hearing see ยง 3.103 (c) and (d) of this chapter).


(4) When a reduction of subsistence allowance is found to be warranted following consideration of any additional evidence submitted, the effective date of the reduction or discontinuance shall be as specified under the provisions of ยง 21.324 of this part.



---

[N] [54 FR 40872, Oct. 4, 1989]




