# § 145.134   Canned preserved figs.

(a) Canned preserved figs is the food prepared from one of the optional fig ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the packing medium specified in paragraph (c) of this section, to which citric acid or lemon juice or concentrated lemon juice is added, if necessary, in such quantity as to reduce the pH of the finished product to 4.9 or below. The figs are precooked in the packing medium, sealed in a container, and so processed by heat, either before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.


(b) The optional fig ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are whole mature figs of the light or dark varieties that may be either peeled or unpeeled.


(c)(1) The packing medium referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is prepared from water and one of the following optional sweetening ingredients:


(i) Sugar.


(ii) Invert sugar sirup.


(iii) Any mixture of optional sweetening ingredients designated in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section.


(iv) Any of the optional sweetening ingredients designated in paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section with dextrose: *Provided,* That the weight of the solids of dextrose does not exceed one-third of the total weight of the solids of the combined sweetening ingredients.


(v) Any of the optional sweetening ingredients designated in paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section with corn sirup or with dried corn sirup or with glucose sirup or with dried glucose sirup, or with any two or more of these: *Provided,* That the weight of the solids of corn sirup, dried corn sirup, glucose sirup, dried glucose sirup or the sum of the weights of the solids of corn sirup, dried corn sirup, glucose sirup, and dried glucose sirup, in case two or more of these are used, does not exceed one-fourth of the total weight of the solids of the combined sweetening ingredients.


(vi) Any mixture of the optional ingredients designated in paragraphs (c)(1) (iv) and (v) of this section.


(2) The density of the packing medium described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, as measured on the Brix hydrometer 15 days or more after the figs are canned, is not less than 50° and not more than 55°.


(d)(1) The name of the food is “Preserved Figs—Precooked in Sirup”. For the purpose of label declaration, the words “Precooked in Sirup” may appear immediately below the words “Preserved Figs”, but there shall be no intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, and the letters used for the words “Precooked in Sirup” shall be of the same type style and not less than one-half the height of the letters in the words “Preserved Figs”.


(2) The label shall indicate which optional fig ingredient specified in paragraph (b) of this section is used.


(e) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words herein specified, showing the optional fig ingredient used, shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, except that the varietal name of the figs may so intervene.


(f) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14414, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 2880, Jan. 6, 1993]




