# ยง 45.7   Unique product identifiers.

Each swap shall be identified in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part by means of a unique product identifier and product classification system as specified in this section. Each swap sufficiently standardized to receive a unique product identifier shall be identified by a unique product identifier. Each swap not sufficiently standardized for this purpose shall be identified by its description using the product classification system.


(a) *Requirements for the unique product identifier and product classification system.* The unique product identifier and product classification system shall identify and describe the swap asset class and the sub-type within that asset class to which the swap belongs, and the underlying product for the swap, with sufficient distinctiveness and specificity to enable the Commission and other financial regulators to fulfill their regulatory responsibilities and to assist in real time reporting of swaps as provided in the Act and part 43 of this chapter. The level of distinctiveness and specificity which the unique product identifier will provide shall be determined separately for each swap asset class.


(b) *Designation of the unique product identifier and product classification system.* (1) The Commission shall determine when a unique product identifier and product classification system that is acceptable to the Commission and satisfies the requirements set forth in this section is available for use in compliance with this section.


(2) When the Commission determines that such a unique product identifier and product classification system is available, the Commission shall designate the unique product identifier and product classification system to be used in recordkeeping and swap data reporting pursuant to this part, by means of a Commission order that is published in the _Federal Register_ and on the Web site of the Commission, as soon as practicable after such determination is made. The order shall include notice of this designation, the contact information of the issuer of such unique product identifiers, and information concerning the procedure and requirements for obtaining unique product identifiers and using the product classification system.


(c) *Use of the unique product identifier and product classification system by registered entities and swap counterparties.* (1) When a unique product identifier and product classification system has been designated by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, each registered entity and swap counterparty shall use the unique product identifier and product classification system in all recordkeeping and swap data reporting pursuant to this part.


(2) Before a unique product identifier and product classification system has been designated by the Commission, each registered entity and swap counterparty shall use the internal product identifier or product description used by the swap data repository to which a swap is reported in all recordkeeping and swap data reporting pursuant to this part.



---

[N] [77 FR 2197, Jan. 13, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75563, Nov. 25, 2020]




