# § 2423.24   Powers and duties of the Administrative Law Judge during prehearing proceedings.

(a) *Prehearing procedures.* The Administrative Law Judge shall regulate the course and scheduling of prehearing matters, including prehearing orders, conferences, disclosure, motions, and subpoena requests. 


(b) *Changing date, time, or place of hearing.* After issuance of the complaint or any prehearing order, the Administrative Law Judge may, in the Judge's discretion or upon motion by any party through the motions procedure in § 2423.21, change the date, time, or place of the hearing. 


(c) *Prehearing order.* (1) The Administrative Law Judge may, in the Judge's discretion or upon motion by any party through the motions procedure in § 2423.21, issue a prehearing order confirming or changing: 


(i) The date, time, or place of the hearing; 


(ii) The schedule for prehearing disclosure of witness lists and documents intended to be offered into evidence at the hearing; 


(iii) The date for submission of procedural and substantive motions; 


(iv) The date, time, and place of the prehearing conference; and 


(v) Any other matter pertaining to prehearing or hearing procedures. 


(2) The prehearing order shall be served in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter. 


(d) *Prehearing conferences.* The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct one or more prehearing conferences, either by telephone or in person, at least 7 days prior to the hearing date, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that a prehearing conference would serve no purpose and no party has moved for a prehearing conference in accordance with § 2423.21. If a prehearing conference is held, all parties must participate in the prehearing conference and be prepared to discuss, narrow, and resolve the issues set forth in the complaint and answer, as well as any prehearing disclosure matters or disputes. When necessary, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare and file for the record a written summary of actions taken at the conference. Summaries of the conference shall be served on all parties in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter. The following may also be considered at the prehearing conference: 


(1) Settlement of the case, either by the Judge conducting the prehearing conference or pursuant to § 2423.25; 


(2) Admissions of fact, disclosure of contents and authenticity of documents, and stipulations of fact; 


(3) Objections to the introduction of evidence at the hearing, including oral or written testimony, documents, papers, exhibits, or other submissions proposed by a party; 


(4) Subpoena requests or petitions to revoke subpoenas; 


(5) Any matters subject to official notice; 


(6) Outstanding motions; or 


(7) Any other matter that may expedite the hearing or aid in the disposition of the case. 


(e) *Sanctions.* The Administrative Law Judge may, in the Judge's discretion or upon motion by any party through the motions procedure in § 2423.21, impose sanctions upon the parties as necessary and appropriate to ensure that a party's failure to fully comply with subpart B or C of this part is not condoned. Such authority includes, but is not limited to, the power to: 


(1) Prohibit a party who fails to comply with any requirement of subpart B or C of this part from, as appropriate, introducing evidence, calling witnesses, raising objections to the introduction of evidence or testimony of witnesses at the hearing, presenting a specific theory of violation, seeking certain relief, or relying upon a particular defense. 


(2) Refuse to consider any submission that is not filed in compliance with subparts B or C of this part. 




