# § 301.6109-4   IRS truncated taxpayer identification numbers.

(a) *In general*— *Definition.* An IRS truncated taxpayer identification number (TTIN) is an individual's social security number (SSN), IRS individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), IRS adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or IRS employer identification number (EIN) in which the first five digits of the nine-digit number are replaced with Xs or asterisks. The TTIN takes the same format of the identifying number it replaces, for example XXX-XX-1234 when replacing an SSN, or XX-XXX1234 when replacing an EIN.


(b) *Use of a TTIN.* (1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a TTIN may be used to identify any person on any statement or other document that the internal revenue laws require to be furnished to another person. Use of a TTIN is permissive and not mandatory. Use of a TTIN as permitted by this section will not result in application of any penalty for failure to include a correct taxpayer identifying number on any payee statement or other document. For example, the section 6722 penalty for failure to timely furnish a correct statement would not apply solely because the payor used a TTIN as permitted by this section.


(2) *TTIN not permitted.* Use of a TTIN is not permitted in the following circumstances:


(i) A TTIN may not be used on a statement or other document if such use is prohibited by statute, regulation, other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, form, or instructions.










(ii) A TTIN may not be used on a statement or document if a statute, regulation, other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, form, or instructions, specifically requires use of an SSN, ITIN, ATIN, or EIN and does not specifically state that the taxpayer identifying number may be truncated. For example, a TTIN may not be used on a Form W-8ECI or Form W-8IMY because the forms and/or form instructions specifically prescribe use of an SSN, EIN, or ITIN for the U.S. taxpayer identification number.


(iii) A TTIN may not be used on any return, statement, or other document that is required to be filed with or furnished to the Internal Revenue Service or the Social Security Administration in the case of forms required to be filed with the Social Security Administration under the internal revenue laws.










(iv) A person may not truncate its own taxpayer identifying number on any statement or other document that it furnishes to another person. For example, an employer may not truncate its EIN on a Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, that the employer furnishes to an employee; and a person may not truncate its TIN on a Form W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.






(3) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (b) are illustrated by the following examples:


(i) *Example 1.* Pursuant to section 6051(d) and § 31.6051-2(a) of this chapter, Employer files the Social Security Administration copy of Employee's Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, with the Social Security Administration. Employer may not truncate any identifying number on the Social Security Administration copy. Pursuant to section 6051(a) and § 31.6051-1(a)(1)(i) of this chapter, Employer furnishes copies of Forms W-2 to Employee. There are no applicable statutes, regulations, other published guidance, forms, or instructions that prohibit use of a TTIN on Form W-2, and § 31.6051-1(a)(1)(i) specifically permits truncating employees' SSNs. Accordingly, Employer may truncate Employee's SSN to appear in the form of a TTIN on copies of Forms W-2 furnished to Employee. Employer may not truncate its own EIN on copies of Forms W-2 furnished to Employee.


(ii) *Example 2.* On April 5, year 1, Donor contributes a used car with a blue book value of $1,100 to Charitable Organization. On April 20, year 1, Charitable Organization sends Donor copies B and C of the Form 1098-C as a contemporaneous written acknowledgement of the $1,100 contribution as required by section 170(f)(12). In late-February, year 2, Charitable Organization prepares and files copy A of Form 1098-C with the IRS, reporting Donor's donation of a qualified vehicle in year 1. Charitable Organization may truncate Donor's SSN to appear in the form of a TTIN in the Donor's Identification Number box on copies B and C of the Form 1098-C because copies B and C of the Form 1098-C are documents required by the Internal Revenue Code and regulations to be furnished to another person; there are no applicable statutes, regulations, other published guidance, forms or instructions that prohibit the use of a TTIN on those copies; and there are no applicable statutes, regulations, other published guidance, forms, or instructions that specifically require use of an SSN or other identifying number on those copies. Charitable Organization may not truncate its own EIN on copies B and C of the Form 1098-C because a person cannot truncate its own taxpayer identifying number on any statement or other document the person furnishes to another person. Charitable Organization may not truncate any identifying number on copy A of the Form 1098-C because copy A is required to be filed with the IRS.


(c) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable to returns, statements, and other documents required to be filed or furnished after December 31, 2020.





---

[N] [T.D. 9675, 79 FR 41131, July 15, 2014, as amended by T.D. 9861, 84 FR 31720, July 3, 2019]




