# ยง 1251.3   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Court of competent jurisdiction* means, for purposes of this part, the judge or some other competent entity, as authorized by statute or regulation or other lawful means, and not simply by an attorney or court clerk, must sign a demand for records the disclosure of which is constrained by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a because section (b)(11) of the Act requires appropriate authorization of a court of competent jurisdiction. See *Doe* v. *Digenova,* 779 F.2d 74 (D.C. Cir. 1985); *Stiles* v. *Atlanta Gas Light Company,* 453 F. Supp. 798 (N.D. Ga. 1978).


*Demand* means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records in a legal proceeding, or for the appearance and testimony of a NARA employee in a legal proceeding.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of NARA or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part. General Counsel also means the Inspector General of NARA (or a person to whom the Inspector General has delegated authority under this part) when a demand is made for records of NARA's Office of the Inspector General, or for the testimony of an employee of NARA's Office of the Inspector General.


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, legislative body, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.


*NARA* means the National Archives and Records Administration.


*NARA employee or employee* means:


(1) Any current or former officer or employee of NARA, except that this definition does not include former NARA employees who are retained or hired as expert witnesses concerning, or who agree to testify about, matters available to the public or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with NARA;


(2) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of NARA or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for NARA;


(3) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to NARA, whether formal or informal; and


(4) Any individual who served or is serving in any volunteer or internship capacity to NARA.


*Records or agency information* means:


(1) Archival records, which are permanently valuable records of the United States Government that have been transferred to the legal custody of the Archivist of the United States;


(2) Operational records, which are those records that NARA creates or receives in carrying out its mission and responsibilities as an executive branch agency. This does not include archival records as defined above in this section;


(3) All documents and materials which are NARA agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended;


(4) Presidential records as defined in 44 U.S.C. 2201; historical materials as defined in 44 U.S.C. 2101; records as defined in 44 U.S.C. 2107 and 44 U.S.C. 3301;


(5) All other documents and materials contained in NARA files; and


(6) All other information or materials acquired by a NARA employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.




