# § 32.54   Ohio.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Cedar Point National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow white-tailed deer hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a State-issued permit. All hunters must check in and out at the refuge check station. We require hunters to check out with the State-issued Harvest Card no later than 2 hours after the conclusion of their controlled hunt.


(ii) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 150 feet (45.7 meters) of any structure, building, or parking lot.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of turtle, frog, leech, minnow, crayfish, and mussel (clam) species by any method on the refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) You must remove all boats, ice fishing structures, devices, and personal property from the refuge each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(b) *Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, dove, woodcock, crow, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

 

(i) On controlled waterfowl hunt units, we allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot as governed by with State regulations and subject to the following conditions:


(A) You must stop hunting at 12 p.m. (noon) each day.


(B) You may possess no more than 25 shot shells.


(ii) On public hunting units, we allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, dove, woodcock, and snipe subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow refuge access from 1
1/2 hours prior to the State-listed morning shooting time and 1 hour after the State-listed evening shooting time.


(B) We allow the use of dogs when hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(C) We allow nonmotorized boats in areas open to waterfowl hunting during the waterfowl hunting seasons with the following exception: We allow motorized boats in the Metzger Marsh and Two Rivers units.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, squirrel, rabbit, fox, raccoon, skunk, opossum, groundhog, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit the use of buckshot for any hunting on the refuge.


(iii) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 150 feet (45.7 meters) of any structure, building, or parking lot.


(iv) For hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) On controlled deer hunt units, we allow hunting of white-tailed deer only as governed by State regulations and subject to the following conditions:


(A) We require hunters to possess and carry a State-issued permit. You must check in and out at the refuge check station using the State-issued Harvest Card no later than 2 hours after the conclusion of your hunt.


(B) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 150 feet (45.7 meters) of any structure, building, or parking lot.


(ii) We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated public hunting units of the refuge as governed by State regulations and subject to the following conditions:


(A) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(B) We allow only portable deer stands for hunting. We allow only one tree stand per hunter per refuge unit. We allow placement of tree stands after September 1, and require hunters to remove tree stands by March 1 of each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter). We require deer stands to be labeled with the hunter's Ohio customer identification number, which is on the hunting license.


(C) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(2)(iv) applies while turkey hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of any turtle, frog, leech, minnow, crayfish, and mussel (clam) species by any method on the refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) You must remove all boats, ice fishing structures, devices, and personal property from the refuge each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54137, Aug. 31, 2020]




