# § 165.726   Regulated Navigation Areas; Miami River, Miami, Florida.

(a) *Location.* The following are Regulated Navigation Areas:


(1) All the waters of the Miami River, Miami, Florida, from the Brickell Avenue Bridge, in approximate position 25°46′19″ N, 80°11′4″ W, inland to the South Florida Water Management District's salinity dam in approximate position 25°48′4″ N, 80°15′6″ W.


(2) The Tamiami Canal from its intersection with the Miami river in approximate position 25°47′7″ N, 80°14′7″ W to the N.W. 37th Avenue bridge in approximate position 25°48′5″ N, 80°15′5″ W. All coordinates referenced use datum: NAD 83.


(b) *Regulations.* The restrictions in this paragraph apply to vessels operating within the regulated navigation areas in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized to deviate by the Captain of the Port, Miami, Florida, or a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer designated by him.


(1) All rafted vessels (inboard and outboard) must be properly moored in accordance with applicable municipal laws and regulations.


(2) At no time shall any vessels be rafted more than two abreast.


(3) Neither single nor rafted vessels shall extend greater than 54 feet into the main river (measured from the dock) without permission of the Captain of the Port.


(4) A minimum channel width of 65 feet shall be maintained at all times on the Miami River from the Brickell Avenue Bridge west to the Tamiami Canal. A minimum channel width of 45 feet shall be maintained at all times on the Miami River west of the junction of the Miami River and the Tamiami Canal to the South Florida Water Management District's salinity dam, as well as on the Tamiami Canal from its mouth to the N.W. 37th Avenue Bridge.


(5) All moored and rafted vessels shall provide safe access from the shore.


(6) All moored and rafted vessels shall provide clear and ready access for land-based firefighters to safely and quickly reach outboard rafted vessels.


(7) No vessels shall moor or raft in any manner as to impede safe passage of another vessel to any of the tributaries of the Miami River.


(8) Nothing in these regulations shall prohibit the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from requiring the relocation or movement of vessels in a declared flood emergency.



---

[N] [CGD07-97-019, 62 FR 50512, Sept. 26, 1997, as amended by USCG-2018-0533, 85 FR 8173, Feb. 13, 2020]




