# § 1633.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in section 2 of the Flammable Fabrics Act as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191), the following definitions apply for purposes of this part 1633.


(a) *Mattress* means a resilient material or combination of materials enclosed by a ticking (used alone or in combination with other products) intended or promoted for sleeping upon. This includes mattresses that have undergone renovation as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) This term includes, but is not limited to, adult mattresses, youth mattresses, crib mattresses (including portable crib mattresses), bunk bed mattresses, futons, flip chairs without a permanent back or arms, sleeper chairs, and water beds or air mattresses if they contain upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core. Mattresses used in or as part of upholstered furniture are also included; examples are convertible sofa bed mattresses, corner group mattresses, day bed mattresses, roll-away bed mattresses, high risers, and trundle bed mattresses. See § 1633.9 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.


(2) This term excludes mattress pads, mattress toppers (items with resilient filling, with or without ticking, intended to be used with or on top of a mattress), sleeping bags, pillows, liquid and gaseous filled tickings, such as water beds and air mattresses that contain no upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core, upholstered furniture which does not contain a mattress, and juvenile product pads such as car bed pads, carriage pads, basket pads, infant carrier and lounge pads, dressing table pads, stroller pads, crib bumpers, and playpen pads. See § 1633.9 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.


(b) *Foundation* means a ticking covered structure used to support a mattress or sleep surface. The structure may include constructed frames, foam, box springs, or other materials, used alone or in combination.


(c) *Mattress set* means either a mattress and foundation labeled by the manufacturer for sale as a set, or a mattress labeled by the manufacturer for sale without any foundation.


(d) *Renovation* means altering an existing mattress set for the purpose of resale.


(1) This term includes any one, or any combination of the following: replacing the ticking or batting, stripping a mattress to its springs, rebuilding a mattress, or replacing components with new or recycled materials.


(2) This term excludes alterations if the person who renovates the mattress intends to retain the renovated mattress for his or her own use, or if a customer or a renovator merely hires the services of the renovator and intends to take back the renovated mattress for his or her own use.


(e) *Ticking* means the outermost layer of fabric or related material of a mattress or foundation. It does not include any other layers of fabric or related materials quilted together with, or otherwise attached to, the outermost layer of fabric or related material.


(f) *Upholstery material* means all material, either loose or attached, between the mattress ticking and the core of a mattress.


(g) *Edge* means the seamed, un-seamed or taped border edge of a mattress or foundation that joins the top and/or bottom with the side panels.


(h) *Tape edge* means an edge made by using binding tape to encase and finish raw edges.


(i) *Binding tape* means a fabric strip used in the construction of some edges.


(j) *Seam thread* means the thread used to form stitches in construction features, seams, and tape edges.


(k) *Manufacturer* means an individual plant or factory at which mattress sets are manufactured or assembled. For purposes of this part 1633, importers and renovators are considered manufacturers.


(l) *Prototype* means a specific design of mattress set that serves as a model for production units intended to be introduced into commerce and is the same as the production units with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly. A mattress intended for sale with a foundation(s) shall be considered a separate and distinct prototype from a mattress intended for sale without a foundation.


(m) *Prototype developer* means a third party that develops a prototype for use by a manufacturer. Such prototypes may be qualified by either the prototype developer or by the manufacturer.


(n) *Qualified prototype* means a prototype that has been tested in accordance with § 1633.4(a) and meets the criteria stated in § 1633.3(b).


(o) *Confirmed prototype* means a prototype that is part of a pooling arrangement and is the same as a qualified prototype with respect to materials, components, design and methods of assembly and has been tested in accordance with § 1633.5(a)(3) and meets the criteria stated in § 1633.3(b).


(p) *Subordinate prototype* means a mattress set that is based on a qualified or confirmed prototype and is the same as the qualified or confirmed prototype, except as permitted by § 1633.4(b). A subordinate prototype is considered to be represented by a qualified or confirmed prototype and need not be tested in accordance with § 1633.4(a) or § 1633.5(a)(3).


(q) *Prototype pooling* means a cooperative arrangement—whereby one or more manufacturers build mattress sets based on a qualified prototype produced by another manufacturer or prototype developer. A manufacturer who relies on another manufacturer's or prototype developer's qualified prototype must perform a confirmation test on the mattress set it manufactures.


(r) *Confirmation test* means a pre-market test conducted by a manufacturer who is relying on a qualified prototype produced by another manufacturer or prototype developer. A confirmation test must be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1633.7 and meet the criteria in § 1633.3(b).


(s) *Production lot* means any quantity of finished mattress sets that are produced in production intervals defined by the manufacturer, and are intended to replicate a specific qualified, confirmed or subordinate prototype that complies with this part 1633.


(t) *Specimen* means a mattress set tested under this regulation.


(u) *Twin size* means any mattress with the dimensions 38 inches (in) (965 millimeters) × 74.5 in. (1892 mm); all dimensions may vary by ±
1/2 in. (±13 mm).


(v) *Core* means the main support system that may be present in a mattress, such as springs, foam, water bladder, air bladder, or resilient filling.




