# § 404.413   After my benefits are reduced for age what happens if there is an increase in my primary insurance amount?

(a) *What is the general rule on reduction of increases?* After an individual's benefits are reduced for age under §§ 404.410 through 404.411, the primary insurance amount on which such benefits are based may subsequently be increased because of a recomputation, a general benefit increase pursuant to an amendment of the Act, or increases based upon a rise in the cost-of-living under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act. When the primary insurance amount increases the monthly benefit amount also increases. 


(b) *How are subsequent increases in the primary insurance amount reduced after 1977?* After 1977, when an individual's benefits have been reduced for age and the benefit is increased due to an increase in the primary insurance amount, the amount of the increase to which the individual is entitled is proportionately reduced as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The method of reduction is determined by whether entitlement to reduced benefits began before 1978 or after 1977. When an individual is entitled to more than one benefit which is reduced for age, the rules for reducing the benefit increases apply to each reduced benefit. 


(c) *How is the reduction computed for increases after 1977?*—(1) *Entitlement to reduced benefits after 1977.* If an individual becomes entitled after 1977 to a benefit reduced for age, and the primary insurance amount on which the reduced benefit is based is increased, the amount of the increase payable to the individual is reduced by the same percentage as we use to reduce the benefit in the month of initial entitlement. Where the reduced benefit of an individual has been adjusted at full retirement age (age 62 and full retirement age for widows or widowers), any increase to which the individual becomes entitled thereafter is reduced by the adjusted percentage. 


(2) *Entitlement to reduced benefits before 1978.* For an individual, who became entitled to a benefit reduced for age before 1978, whose benefit may be increased as a result of an increase in the primary insurance amount after 1977, we increase the amount of the benefit by the same percentage as the increase in the primary insurance amount. 


(d) *How was the reduction computed for increases prior to 1978?* When the individual's primary insurance amount increased, the amount of the increase was reduced separately under §§ 404.410 and 404.411. The separate reduction was based on the number of months from the effective date of the increase through the month of attainment of age 65. This reduced increase amount was then added to the reduced benefit that was in effect in the month before the effective date of the increase. The result was the new monthly benefit amount.



---

[N] [68 FR 4710, Jan. 30, 2003]




