# ยง 2100.002   Definitions.

*Accreditation* means a formal recognition by an authorized body that a third-party verifier operates according to a set of standards.


*Agricultural expert* means persons who are employed by the Cooperative Extension System or the agricultural departments of universities, or other persons approved by Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, whose research or occupation is related to the specific crop or practice for which such expertise is sought.


*Audit* means a process for obtaining relevant information about an entity's practices or processes, recordkeeping, and management and evaluating it objectively.


*Biofuel* means a liquid or gaseous fuels and fuel blending components produced from biomass feedstock.


*Biofuel feedstock crop* means a crop that can be used as raw material for biofuel production.


*Biofuel Feedstock Report* means a report generated by a farm producer that includes documentation of carbon intensity calculations and the Farm Producer Attestation.


*Biofuel refiner* means an entity that refines biomass feedstocks into a biofuel.


*Biomass* means any organic material other than oil and natural gas (or any product thereof), and coal (including lignite) or any product thereof.


*Carbon intensity (CI)* means a measure of GHG performance reflecting the estimated quantity of GHG emissions associated with one unit of production. For biofuel feedstock crops, carbon intensity is expressed as grams of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO_2_-eq) per bushel of produced crop (g CO_2_-eq/bushel).


*Climate-smart agriculture (CSA) crop* means a crop that is produced with CSA practices according to subparts A through F of this part.


*Climate-smart agriculture (CSA) practices* means agricultural management, practices, systems, and technologies that have been demonstrated to generally reduce GHG emissions or increase soil carbon sequestration.


*Conventional crop* means a crop that is produced without the use of CSA practices according to this part.


*Cover crop* means grasses, legumes, and forbs planted for seasonal vegetative cover, and not intended for harvest, between harvested production crops in rotation.


*Crop interval* means the time immediately following harvest or termination of one cash crop through harvest or termination of the next cash crop in the rotation, including fallow periods.


*Crushing yield* means a number representing the amount of oilseed produced from crushing one bushel of seed oil crop. Crushing yield is usually expressed in pounds per bushel (lbs/bu).


*Farm* means a business entity that produces (that is, grows and harvests) biofuel feedstock crops.


*Farm producer* means a person who is involved in making decisions for the farm operation. These decisions may include planting, harvesting, management, and marketing. The farm producer may be the owner, a member of the owner's household, a hired manager, a tenant, a renter, or a sharecropper. If a person rents land to others or has land worked on shares, they are considered the farm producer only for the land retained for their own operation.


*Farm Producer Attestation* means a document generated by the farm producer, who has operational control, that provides assurance that the farm producer followed standards in this part. The Farm Producer Attestation is included in the Biofuel Feedstock Report.


*Feedstock* means raw material that is converted into fuels and coproducts during the fuel production process.


*Field* means a part of a farm that is separated from the balance of the farm by permanent boundaries, such as fences, permanent waterways, woodlands, roads, croplines, or other similar features. In addition to a permanent, contiguous boundary, a field has common land cover and management.


*First point of aggregation* means the entity that purchases crops directly from the farm. Entities serving as the first point of aggregation distribute, trade, or further process these feedstocks.


*Intensive tillage* means a tillage operation that involves full width soil disturbance and multiple operations with implements such as moldboard, disk, or chisel plow. Intensive tillage does not meet the standards of reduced till or no-till in this part.


*Intermediary entity* means any entity in the biofuel supply chain that falls between the first point of aggregation and the biofuel refiner. Intermediary entities may include crushers, processors, storage facilities, or other entities.


*Leguminous cover crop* means a cover crop that fixes atmospheric nitrogen and are planted for seasonal vegetative cover, and not intended for harvest, between harvested production crops in rotation.


*Management unit* means field, group of fields, or other land units of the same land use and having similar treatment needs and planned management.


*Mass balance system* means a system in which materials or products with specified characteristics are mixed with materials or products without some or all of these characteristics, resulting in a claim on a part of the output, proportional to the input.


*No-till* means a practice that limits soil disturbance to manage the amount, orientation, and distribution of crop and plant residue on the soil surface year-round.


*Nutrient management* means the practice of managing the rate, source, placement, and timing of plant nutrients and soil amendments to optimize their economic benefits while minimizing environmental impacts.


*Operational control* means authority possessed by the person who runs the farm, making day-to-day management decisions. A person with operational control could be an owner, hired manager, cash tenant, share tenant, or a partner. If land is rented or worked on shares, the tenant or renter has operational control.


*Planting green* means a system where a cover crop is left in place and a production crop is planted into the cover crop without prior termination.


*Process* means any mechanical operation that transforms the physical properties of a product. Processing includes extracting oil from seed oil crops (for example, soybeans).


*Reduced-carbon intensity (reduced-CI) crop* means a crop that is produced by a farm that employs CSA practices on some or all of the fields or management units used for that crop's production. A farm that does not employ any CSA practices does not have crop that is considered reduced-CI crop.


*Reduced-carbon intensity processed product (Reduced-CI processed product* means a product derived from reduced-CI crops.


*Reduced till* means the practice of managing the amount, orientation, and distribution of crop and other plant residue on the soil surface year-round while limiting soil-disturbing activities used to grow and harvest crops in systems where the field surface is tilled prior to planting.


*Soil Tillage Intensity Rating (STIR)* means a numerical value that measures the severity and type of soil disturbance caused by tillage operations. STIR values range from 0 to 200, with higher values indicating more soil disturbance. The STIR rating applies to the entire tillage system used in producing a crop. The components of the rating include tillage type, recommended equipment operating speed, recommended tillage depth, and surface area disturbed.


*Third-party verifier* means an accredited person or organization independent of the verified entity that performs a verification activity or audit.


