# § 1.7874-12   Definitions.

(a) *Definitions.* Except as otherwise provided, the following definitions apply for purposes of this section and §§ 1.367(b)-4, 1.956-2, 1.7701(l)-4, and 1.7874-1 through 1.7874-11.


(1) An *affiliated group* has the meaning set forth in section 1504(a) but without regard to section 1504(b)(3), except that section 1504(a) is applied by substituting “more than 50 percent” for “at least 80 percent” each place it appears. A *member of the affiliated group* is an entity included in the affiliated group.


(2) The *applicable period* means, with respect to an inversion transaction, the period described in section 7874(d)(1). However, see also § 1.7874-2(b)(13) in the case of a subsequent acquisition (or a similar acquisition under the principles of § 1.7874-2(c)(4)(i)) that is an inversion transaction.


(3) The *completion date* means, with respect to a domestic entity acquisition, the date that the domestic entity acquisition and all transactions related to the domestic entity acquisition are complete.


(4) A *controlled foreign corporation* (or *CFC*) has the meaning provided in section 957.


(5) A *domestic entity acquisition* means an acquisition described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i).


(6) A *domestic entity* means, with respect to a domestic entity acquisition, a domestic corporation or domestic partnership described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i). A reference to a domestic entity includes a successor to such domestic corporation or domestic partnership, including a corporation that succeeds to and takes into account amounts with respect to the domestic entity pursuant to section 381.


(7) An *expanded affiliated group* (or *EAG*) means, with respect to a domestic entity acquisition, an affiliated group that includes the foreign acquiring corporation, determined as of the completion date. A *member of the EAG* is an entity included in the EAG, and a reference to a member of the EAG includes a predecessor with respect to such member.


(8) An *expatriated entity* means, with respect to an inversion transaction—


(i) The domestic entity; and


(ii) A United States person that, on any date on or after the completion date, is or was related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) to the domestic entity.


(9) *Expatriated foreign subsidiary*—(i) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section, an expatriated foreign subsidiary means a foreign corporation that is a CFC (determined without applying subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3) so as to consider a United States person as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United States person) and in which an expatriated entity is a United States shareholder (determined without applying subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3) so as to consider a United States person as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United States person).


(ii) *Exception to the general rule.* A foreign corporation is not an expatriated foreign subsidiary if, with respect to the inversion transaction as a result of which the foreign corporation otherwise would be an expatriated foreign subsidiary—


(A) On the completion date, the foreign corporation was both a CFC (determined without applying subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3) so as to consider a United States person as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United States person) and a member of the EAG; and


(B) On or before the completion date, the domestic entity was not a United States shareholder (determined without applying subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3) so as to consider a United States person as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United States person) with respect to the foreign corporation.


(10) A *foreign acquiring corporation* means, with respect to a domestic entity acquisition, the foreign corporation described in section 7874(a)(2)(B). A reference to a foreign acquiring corporation includes a successor to the foreign acquiring corporation, including a corporation that succeeds to and takes into account amounts with respect to the foreign acquiring corporation pursuant to section 381.


(11) A *foreign related person* means, with respect to an inversion transaction, a foreign person that is related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) to, or under the same common control as (within the meaning of section 482), a person that is an expatriated entity with respect to the inversion transaction.


(12) A *former domestic entity partner* of a domestic entity that is a domestic partnership is any person that held an interest in the partnership before the domestic entity acquisition, including any person that holds an interest in the partnership both before and after the domestic entity acquisition.


(13) A *former domestic entity shareholder* of a domestic entity that is a domestic corporation is any person that held stock in the domestic corporation before the domestic entity acquisition, including any person that holds stock in the domestic corporation both before and after the domestic entity acquisition.


(14) An *interest in a partnership* includes a capital or profits interest.


(15) An *inversion transaction* means a domestic entity acquisition in which the foreign acquiring corporation is treated as a surrogate foreign corporation under section 7874(a)(2)(B), taking into account section 7874(a)(3).


(16) A *non-EFS foreign related person* means, with respect to an inversion transaction, a foreign related person that is not an expatriated foreign subsidiary.


(17) The *ownership fraction* means, with respect to a domestic entity acquisition, the ownership percentage described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), expressed as a fraction.


(18) A *specified related person* means, with respect to an inversion transaction—


(i) A non-EFS foreign related person;


(ii) A domestic partnership in which a non-EFS foreign related person is a partner; and


(iii) A domestic trust of which a non-EFS foreign related person is a beneficiary.


(19) A *United States person* means a person described in section 7701(a)(30).


(20) A *United States shareholder* has the meaning provided in section 951(b).


(b) *Applicability dates.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b), this section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after September 22, 2014. The following apply to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after April 4, 2016: paragraph (a)(8) of this section; in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the phrase “, including a corporation that succeeds to and takes into account amounts with respect to the domestic entity pursuant to section 381”; and the second sentence of paragraph (a)(10) of this section. For domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after September 22, 2014, and before April 4, 2016, however, taxpayers, may elect to apply the provisions in the immediately prior sentence.



---

[N] [T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32560, July 12, 2018]




