# ยง 423.30   Eligibility and enrollment.

(a) *General rule.* (1) An individual is eligible for Part D if he or she does all of the following:


(i) Is entitled to Medicare benefits under Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B (but not including an individual enrolled solely for coverage of immunosuppressive drugs under ยง 407.1(a)(6)) of this subchapter.


(ii) Lives in the service area of a Part D plan, as defined under ยง 423.4.


(iii) Is a United States citizen or is lawfully present in the United States as determined in 8 CFR 1.3.


(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an individual is eligible to enroll in a PDP if:


(i) The individual is eligible for Part D in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section;


(ii) The individual resides in the PDP's service area; and


(iii) The individual is not enrolled in another Part D plan.


(3) Retroactive Part A or Part B determinations. Individuals who become entitled to Medicare Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B for a retroactive effective date are Part D eligible as of the month in which a notice of entitlement Part A or enrollment in Part B is provided.


(b) *Coordination with MA plans.* A Part D eligible individual enrolled in a MA-PD plan must obtain qualified prescription drug coverage through that plan. MA enrollees are not eligible to enroll in a PDP, except as follows:


(1) A Part D eligible individual is eligible to enroll in a PDP if the individual is enrolled in a MA private fee-for-service plan (as defined in section 1859(b)(2) of the Act) that does not provide qualified prescription drug coverage; and


(2) A Part D eligible individual is eligible to enroll in a PDP if the individual is enrolled in a MSA plan (as defined in section 1859(b)(3) of the Act).


(c) *Enrollment in a PACE plan.* A Part D eligible individual enrolled in a PACE plan that offers qualified prescription drug coverage under this Part must obtain such coverage through that plan.


(d) *Enrollment in a cost-based HMO or CMP.* A Part D eligible individual enrolled in a cost-based HMO or CMP (as defined under part 417 of this chapter) that elects to receive qualified prescription drug coverage under such plan is ineligible to enroll in another Part D plan. A Part D eligible individual enrolled in a cost-based HMO or CMP offering qualified prescription drug coverage is eligible to enroll in a PDP if the individual does not elect to receive qualified prescription drug coverage under the cost-based HMO or CMP and otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 7962, Feb. 12, 2015; 87 FR 66510, Nov. 3, 2022]




