# § 89.530   Submission of a declaration of compliance for FAA acceptance.

(a) *Eligibility.* A person responsible for the production of a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft under § 89.515 or a remote identification broadcast module under § 89.520 must submit a declaration of compliance for acceptance by the FAA.


(b) *Required information for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.* The person responsible for the production of a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft requesting acceptance of a declaration of compliance must declare that the unmanned aircraft complies with the requirements of this subpart by submitting a declaration of compliance to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The declaration must include at a minimum the following information:


(1) The name, physical address, telephone number, and email address of the person responsible for production of the unmanned aircraft.


(2) The unmanned aircraft's make and model.


(3) The unmanned aircraft's serial number, or the range of serial numbers for which the person responsible for production is declaring compliance.


(4) The FCC Identifier of the 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment used and integrated into the unmanned aircraft.


(5) The means of compliance used in the design and production of the unmanned aircraft.


(6) Whether the declaration of compliance is an initial declaration or an amended declaration, and if the declaration of compliance is an amended declaration, the reason for the amendment.


(7) A declaration that the person responsible for the production of the unmanned aircraft:


(i) Can demonstrate that the unmanned aircraft was designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements of § 89.310 by using an FAA-accepted means of compliance.


(ii) Complies with the requirements of § 89.515(b).


(8) A statement that 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment is used and is integrated into the unmanned aircraft without modification to its authorized radio frequency parameters.


(c) *Required information for remote identification broadcast modules.* The person responsible for the production of a remote identification broadcast module under § 89.520 that is requesting acceptance of a declaration of compliance must declare that the remote identification broadcast module complies with the requirements of this subpart by submitting a declaration of compliance to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The declaration must include at a minimum the following information:


(1) The name, physical address, telephone number, and email address of the person responsible for production of the remote identification broadcast module.


(2) The remote identification broadcast module's make and model.


(3) The remote identification broadcast module's serial number, or the range of serial numbers for which the person responsible for production is declaring compliance.


(4) The FCC Identifier of the 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment used and integrated into the remote identification broadcast module.


(5) The means of compliance used in the design and production of the remote identification broadcast module.


(6) Whether the declaration of compliance is an initial declaration or an amended declaration, and if the declaration of compliance is an amended declaration, the reason for the amendment.


(7) A declaration that the person responsible for the production of the remote identification broadcast module:


(i) Can demonstrate that the remote identification broadcast module was designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements of § 89.320 by using an FAA-accepted means of compliance.


(ii) Complies with the requirements of § 89.520(b).


(8) A statement that 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment is used and is integrated into the remote identification broadcast module without modification to its authorized radio frequency parameters, and a statement that instructions have been provided for installation of 47 CFR part 15-compliant remote identification broadcast module without modification to the broadcast module's authorized radio frequency parameters.




