# ยง 100.401   Claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act for loss of or damage to property or for personal injury or death.

(a) *Scope of regulations.* These regulations apply to administrative claims filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 2672), as amended, for money damages against the United States for damage to or loss of property, or for personal injury or death, caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the National Labor Relations Board acting within the scope of his or her office or employment, under circumstances where the United States, if a private person, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred. The regulations in this part supplement the Department of Justice's regulations in 28 CFR part 14.


(b) *Filing a claim.* Claims may be submitted to the Associate General Counsel, Division of Legal Counsel, Headquarters, National Labor Relations Board, Washington, DC 20570 at any time within 2 years after such claim has accrued. The current address for Headquarters can be found at *www.nlrb.gov.* Such claim may be presented by a person specified in 28 CFR 14.3. An executed Standard Form 95, *Claim for Damage, Injury, or Death*, or written notification must be submitted and accompanied by as much of the appropriate information specified in 28 CFR 14.4 as may reasonably be obtained.


(c) *Amendment of claim.* A claim submitted in compliance with this subpart may be amended by the claimant at any time prior to final action by the National Labor Relations Board or prior to the exercise of the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). Amendments shall be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or his or her duly authorized agent or legal representative. Upon the timely filing of an amendment to a pending claim, the National Labor Relations Board shall have six months to make a final disposition of the claim as amended and the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) shall not accrue until six months after filing of an amendment.


(d) *Action on claims.* The Associate General Counsel, Division of Legal Counsel, shall have the power to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, compromise, or settle any claim submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Any exercise of such power shall be in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 28 CFR part 1.


(e) *Legal review of claims.* In accordance with 28 CFR 14.5, legal review is required if the amount of a proposed settlement, compromise, or award exceeds $5,000. Any exercise of such power shall be in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 28 CFR part 14.


(f) *Payment of awards.* Any award, compromise, or settlement in an amount of $2,500 or less made pursuant to this action will be paid by the Chief Financial Officer out of appropriations available to the National Labor Relations Board. Payment of any award, compromise, or settlement in an amount greater than $2,500 will be paid in accordance with 28 CFR 14.10.


(g) *Acceptance of payment constitutes release.* Acceptance by a claimant, his or her agent or legal representative of any award, compromise, or settlement made pursuant to this part shall be final and conclusive on the claimant, his or her agent or legal representative and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim has been submitted, and shall constitute a complete release of any claims against the United States, the National Labor Relations Board, and any employee of the government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim.



---

[N] [81 FR 19487, Apr. 5, 2016]




