# § 1.1502-78   Tentative carryback adjustments.

(a) *General rule.* If a group has a consolidated net operating loss, a consolidated net capital loss, or a consolidated unused business credit for any taxable year, then any application under section 6411 for a tentative carryback adjustment of the taxes for a consolidated return year or years preceding such year shall be made by the common parent corporation for the carryback year (or the agent determined under § 1.1502-77(c) or § 1.1502-77B(d) for the carryback year) to the extent such loss or unused business credit is not apportioned to a corporation for a separate return year pursuant to § 1.1502-21(b), 1.1502-22(b), or 1.1502-79(c). In the case of the portion of a consolidated net operating loss or consolidated net capital loss or consolidated unused business credit to which the preceding sentence does not apply and that is to be carried back to a corporation that was not a member of a consolidated group in the carryback year, the corporation to which such loss or credit is attributable shall make any application under section 6411. In the case of a net capital loss or net operating loss or unused business credit arising in a separate return year that may be carried back to a consolidated return year, after taking into account the application of § 1.1502-21(b)(4) with respect to any net operating loss arising in another consolidated group, the common parent for the carryback year (or the agent determined under § 1.1502-77(c) or § 1.1502-77B(d) for the carryback year) shall make any application under section 6411. 


(b) *Special rules*—(1) *Payment of refund.* Any refund allowable under an application referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made directly to and in the name of the corporation filing the application, except that in all cases where a loss is deducted from the consolidated taxable income or a credit is allowed in computing the consolidated tax liability for a consolidated return year, any refund shall be made directly to and in the name of the common parent corporation for the carryback year (or the agent determined under § 1.1502-77(c) or § 1.1502-77B(d) for the carryback year). The payment of any such refund shall discharge any liability of the Government with respect to such refund.


(2) *Several liability.* If a group filed a consolidated return for a taxable year for which there was an adjustment by reason of an application under section 6411, and if a deficiency is assessed against such group under section 6213(b)(3), then each member of such group shall be severally liable for such deficiency including any interest or penalty assessed in connection with such deficiency.


(3) *Groups that include insolvent financial institutions.* For further rules applicable to groups that include insolvent financial institutions, see § 301.6402-7 of this chapter.


(c) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Adjustments of overpayments of estimated income tax.* If a group paid its estimated income tax on a consolidated basis, then any application under section 6425 for an adjustment of overpayment of estimated income tax shall be made by the common parent corporation. If the members of a group paid estimated income taxes on a separate basis, then any application under section 6425 shall be made by the member of the group which claims an overpayment on a separate basis. Any refund allowable under an application under section 6425 shall be made directly to and in the name of the corporation filing the application.


(e) *Time for filing application*—(1) *General rule.* The provisions of section 6411(a) apply to the filing of an application for a tentative carryback adjustment by a consolidated group. 


(2) *Special rule for new members*—(i) *New member.* A new member is a corporation that, in the preceding taxable year, did not qualify as a member, as defined in § 1.1502-1(b), of the consolidated group that it now joins. 


(ii) *End of taxable year.* Solely for the purpose of complying with the twelve-month requirement for making an application for a tentative carryback adjustment under section 6411(a), the separate return year of a qualified new member shall be treated as ending on the same date as the end of the current taxable year of the consolidated group that the qualified new member joins. 


(iii) *Qualified new member.* A new member of a consolidated group qualifies for purposes of the provisions of this paragraph (e)(2) if, immediately prior to becoming a new member, either— 


(A) It was the common parent of a consolidated group; or 


(B) It was not required to join in the filing of a consolidated return. 


(iv) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (e)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years to which a loss or credit may be carried back and for which the due date (without extensions) of the original return is after June 28, 2002, except that the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section apply for applications by new members of consolidated groups for tentative carryback adjustments resulting from net operating losses, net capital losses, or unused business credits arising in separate return years of new members that begin on or after January 1, 2001.

 


(2) *Prior law.* For taxable years to which a loss or credit may be carried back and for which the due date (without extensions) of the original return is on or before June 28, 2002, *see* § 1.1502-78 in effect prior to June 28, 2002, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 2002.



---

[N] [T.D. 6894, 31 FR 11794, Sept. 3, 1966, as amended by T.D. 7059, 35 FR 14546, Sept. 17, 1970; T.D. 7246, 38 FR 767, Jan. 4, 1973; T.D. 8387, 56 FR 67489, Dec. 31, 1991; T.D. 8446, 57 FR 53034, Nov. 6, 1992; T.D. 8677, 61 FR 33324, June 27, 1996; T.D. 8823, 64 FR 36100, July 2, 1999; T.D. 8950, 66 FR 33463, June 22, 2001; T.D. 9002, 67 FR 43544, June 28, 2002; 67 FR 77678, Dec. 19, 2002; T.D. 9715, 80 FR 17324, Apr. 1, 2015; TD 9977, 88 FR 44216, July 12, 2023; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106876, Dec. 30, 2024]




