# ยง 585.216   How are bidding credits awarded and used?

(a) BOEM will determine the highest bid, taking into account the combined value of the monetary (cash) component and the non-monetary component(s), represented by bidding credits. The PSN and FSN will explain the following details, if bidding credit(s) are available for that auction:


(1) Eligibility and application requirements;


(2) The value of each available bidding credit, which will be either a sum certain or a percentage of the bid; and


(3) Procedures for applying each available bidding credit to bids submitted during the auction.


(b) Eligibility for bidding credits must be established in advance of any lease auction, in accordance with the specifications of the FSN. Such eligibility may be based on actions that the bidder has already undertaken or actions that it has committed to undertake in the future, provided that BOEM has agreed to the terms by which such a commitment will be made. BOEM may offer bidding credits for any of the following:


(1) Power purchase agreements;


(2) Eligibility for, or applicability of, renewable energy credits or subsidies;


(3) Development agreements by a potential lessee that facilitate shared transmission solutions and grid interconnection;


(4) Technical merit, timeliness, or financing and economic considerations;


(5) Environmental considerations, public benefits, or compatibility with State and local needs;


(6) Agreements or commitments by the developer that would facilitate OCS renewable energy development or other OCSLA goals; or


(7) Any other factor or criteria to further development of offshore renewable energy, as identified by BOEM in the PSN and FSN.


(c) Before the auction, bidders seeking to use bidding credits must establish that they meet the eligibility criteria for each bidding credit according to the FSN provisions.


(d) Before the auction, BOEM will determine each bidder's eligibility for bidding credits, and the value of those bidding credits, and will inform each eligible bidder of the value of the bidding credits to which it may be entitled.


(e) A provisional winner who is awarded bidding credits must pay an amount equal to the cash component of its winning bid less any bid deposit retained by BOEM under ยง 585.501.






