# ยง 660.708   Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) *Logbooks.* The operator of any commercial fishing vessel and any recreational charter vessel fishing for HMS in the management area must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete record of catch, effort, and other data on report forms provided by the Regional Administrator or a state agency. All information specified on the forms must be recorded on the forms within 24 hours after the completion of each fishing day. The original logbook form for each day of the fishing trip must be submitted to either the Regional Administrator or the appropriate state management agency within 30 days of each landing or transhipment of HMS. Each form must be signed and dated by the fishing vessel operator.


(1) Logbooks that meet the logbook reporting requirement may be found at *http://swr.nmfs.noaa.gov/logbooks.htm* and include:


(i) The logbook required under 50 CFR 300.21 implementing the Tuna Conventions Act of 1950;


(ii) The logbook required under ยง 660.14 implementing the Fishery Management Plan for Pelagic Fisheries of the Western Pacific Region;


(iii) Any logbook required by the fishery management agency of the States of California, Oregon, or Washington.


(2) Any holder of a permit who does not submit logbooks under any of the above authorities must submit a written request to the SFD for the appropriate logbook. The applicant must provide his or her name and address, the name of the vessel, and the type of fishing gear used.


(3) The Regional Administrator may, after consultation with the Council, act to modify the information to be provided on the fishing record forms.


(b) Any person who is required to do so by the applicable state law must make and/or file, retain, or make available any and all reports of HMS containing all data, and in the exact manner, required by the applicable state law.



---

[N] [69 FR 18453, Apr. 7, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 62501, Oct. 16, 2015]




