# § 292.203   General requirements for qualification.

(a) *Small power production facilities.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a small power production facility is a qualifying facility if it:


(1) Meets the maximum size criteria specified in § 292.204(a);


(2) Meets the fuel use criteria specified in § 292.204(b); and


(3) Unless exempted by paragraph (d), has filed with the Commission a notice of self-certification, pursuant to § 292.207(a); or has filed with the Commission an application for Commission certification, pursuant to § 292.207(b)(1), that has been granted.


(b) *Cogeneration facilities.* A cogeneration facility, including any diesel and dual-fuel cogeneration facility, is a qualifying facility if it:


(1) Meets any applicable standards and criteria specified in §§ 292.205(a), (b) and (d); and


(2) Unless exempted by paragraph (d), has filed with the Commission a notice of self-certification, pursuant to § 292.207(a); or has filed with the Commission an application for Commission certification, pursuant to § 292.207(b)(1), that has been granted.


(c) *Hydroelectric small power production facilities located at a new dam or diversion.* (1) A hydroelectric small power production facility that impounds or diverts the water of a natural watercourse by means of a new dam or diversion (as that term is defined in § 292.202(p)) is a qualifying facility if it meets the requirements of:


(i) Paragraph (a) of this section; and


(ii) Section 292.208.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Exemptions and waivers from filing requirement.* (1) Any facility with a net power production capacity of 1 MW or less is exempt from the filing requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(2) of this section.


(2) The Commission may waive the requirement of paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(2) of this section for good cause. Any applicant seeking waiver of paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(2) of this section must file a petition for declaratory order describing in detail the reasons waiver is being sought.



---

[N] [Order 732, 75 FR 15965, Mar. 30, 2010]




