# § 655.122   Contents of job offers.

(a) *Prohibition against preferential treatment of H-2A workers.* The employer's job offer must offer to U.S. workers no less than the same benefits, wages, and working conditions that the employer is offering, intends to offer, or will provide to H-2A workers. Job offers may not impose on U.S. workers any restrictions or obligations that will not be imposed on the employer's H-2A workers. This does not relieve the employer from providing to H-2A workers at least the same level of minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions that must be offered to U.S. workers consistent with this section.


(b) *Job qualifications and requirements.* Each job qualification and requirement listed in the job offer must be bona fide and consistent with the normal and accepted qualifications required by employers that do not use H-2A workers in the same or comparable occupations and crops. Either the CO or the SWA may require the employer to submit documentation to substantiate the appropriateness of any job qualification specified in the job offer.


(c) *Minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions.* Every job order accompanying an *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* must include each of the minimum benefit, wage, and working condition provisions listed in paragraphs (d) through (q) of this section.


(d) *Housing*—(1) *Obligation to provide housing.* The employer must provide housing at no cost to the H-2A workers and those workers in corresponding employment who are not reasonably able to return to their residence within the same day. Housing must be provided through one of the following means:


(i) *Employer-provided housing.* Employer-provided housing must meet the full set of the DOL Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards set forth at 29 CFR 1910.142, or the full set of standards at §§ 654.404 through 654.417 of this chapter, whichever are applicable under § 654.401 of this chapter. Requests by employers whose housing does not meet the applicable standards for conditional access to the interstate clearance system will be processed under the procedures set forth at § 654.403 of this chapter; or


(ii) *Rental and/or public accommodations.* Rental or public accommodations or other substantially similar class of habitation must meet local standards for such housing. In the absence of applicable local standards addressing those health or safety concerns otherwise addressed by the DOL OSHA standards at 29 CFR 1910.142(b)(2) (minimum square footage); (b)(3) (beds, cots, or bunks, and suitable storage facilities); (b)(9) (minimum square footage in a room where workers cook, live, and sleep); (b)(10) (where the employer chooses to meet its meal obligations under paragraph (g) of this section by furnishing free and convenient cooking and kitchen facilities to the workers, the provision of stoves, sanitary kitchen facilities); (b)(11) (heating, cooking, and water heating equipment installed properly); (c) (water supply); (d)(1) (adequate toilet facilities); (d)(9) (adequate toilet paper); (d)(10) (toilets kept in sanitary condition); (f) (laundry, handwashing, and bathing facilities); (g) (lighting); (h)(2) (garbage containers kept clean); (h)(3) (garbage containers emptied when full, but at least twice a week); and (j) (insect and rodent control), State standards addressing such concerns will apply. In the absence of applicable local or State standards addressing such concerns, the relevant DOL OSHA standards at 29 CFR 1910.142(b)(2), (3), (9), (10), and (11), (c), (d)(1), (9), and (10), (f), (g), (h)(2) and (3), and (j) will apply. Any charges for rental housing must be paid directly by the employer to the owner or operator of the housing.


(2) *Standards for range and mobile housing.* An employer employing workers under §§ 655.200 through 655.235 must comply with the housing requirements in §§ 655.230 and 655.235. An employer employing workers under §§ 655.300 through 655.304 must comply with the housing standards in § 655.304.


(3) *Deposit charges.* Charges in the form of deposits for bedding or other similar incidentals related to housing must not be levied upon workers. However, employers may require workers to reimburse them for damage caused to housing by the individual worker(s) found to have been responsible for damage that is not the result of normal wear and tear related to habitation.


(4) *Charges for public housing.* If public housing provided for migrant agricultural workers under the auspices of a local, county, or State government is secured by the employer, the employer must pay any charges normally required for use of the public housing units directly to the housing's management.


(5) *Family housing.* When it is the prevailing practice in the area of intended employment and the occupation to provide family housing, it must be provided to workers with families who request it.


(6) *Compliance with applicable standards*—(i) *Timeliness.* The determination as to whether housing provided to workers under this section meets the applicable standards must be made not later than 30 calendar days before the first date of need identified in the *Application for Temporary Employment Certification.*

(ii) *Certification of employer-provided housing.* The SWA (or another local, State, or Federal authority acting on behalf of the SWA) with jurisdiction over the location of the employer-provided housing must inspect and provide to the employer and CO documentation certifying that the employer-provided housing is sufficient to accommodate the number of workers requested and meets all applicable standards under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Certification of rental and/or public accommodations.* The employer must provide to the CO a written statement, signed and dated, that attests that the accommodations are compliant with the applicable standards under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and are sufficient to accommodate the number of workers requested. This statement must include the number of bed(s) and room(s) that the employer will secure for the worker(s). If applicable local or State rental or public accommodation standards under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section require an inspection, the employer also must submit to the CO a copy of the inspection report or other official documentation from the relevant authority. If the applicable standards do not require an inspection, the employer's written statement must confirm that no inspection is required.


(iv) *Certified housing that becomes unavailable.* If after a request to certify housing, such housing becomes unavailable for reasons outside the employer's control, the employer may substitute other rental or public accommodation housing that is in compliance with the local, State, or Federal housing standards applicable under this section. The employer must promptly notify the SWA in writing of the change in accommodations and the reason(s) for such change and provide the SWA evidence of compliance with the applicable local, State, or Federal safety and health standards, in accordance with the requirements of this section. If, upon inspection, the SWA determines the substituted housing does not meet the applicable housing standards, the SWA must promptly provide written notification to the employer to cure the deficiencies with a copy to the CO. An employer's failure to provide housing that complies with the applicable standards will result in either a denial of a pending *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* or revocation of the temporary agricultural labor certification granted under this subpart.


(e) *Workers' compensation.* (1) The employer must provide workers' compensation insurance coverage in compliance with State law covering injury and disease arising out of and in the course of the worker's employment. If the type of employment for which the certification is sought is not covered by or is exempt from the State's workers' compensation law, the employer must provide, at no cost to the worker, insurance covering injury and disease arising out of and in the course of the worker's employment that will provide benefits at least equal to those provided under the State workers' compensation law for other comparable employment.


(2) Prior to issuance of the temporary agricultural labor certification, the employer must provide the CO with proof of workers' compensation insurance coverage meeting the requirements of this paragraph (e), including the name of the insurance carrier, the insurance policy number, and proof of insurance for the entire period of employment, or, if appropriate, proof of State law coverage.


(f) *Employer-provided items.* The employer must provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required to perform the duties assigned.


(g) *Meals.* The employer either must provide each worker with three meals a day or must furnish free and convenient cooking and kitchen facilities to the workers that will enable the workers to prepare their own meals. Where the employer provides the meals, the job offer must state the charge, if any, to the worker for such meals. The amount of meal charges is governed by § 655.173. When a charge or deduction for the cost of meals would bring the employee's wage below the minimum wage set by the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 206, the charge or deduction must meet the requirements of the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 203(m), including the recordkeeping requirements found at 29 CFR 516.27.




(h) *Transportation; daily subsistence*—(1) *Transportation to place of employment.* If the employer has not previously advanced such transportation and subsistence costs to the worker or otherwise provided such transportation or subsistence directly to the worker by other means and if the worker completes 50 percent of the work contract period, the employer must pay the worker for reasonable costs incurred by the worker for transportation and daily subsistence from the place from which the worker has come to work for the employer, whether in the U.S. or abroad to the place of employment. When it is the prevailing practice of non-H-2A agricultural employers in the occupation in the area to do so, or when the employer extends such benefits to similarly situated H-2A workers, the employer must advance the required transportation and subsistence costs (or otherwise provide them) to workers in corresponding employment who are traveling to the employer's worksite. The amount of the transportation payment must be no less (and is not required to be more) than the most economical and reasonable common carrier transportation charges for the distances involved. The amount of the daily subsistence payment must be at least as much as the employer would charge the worker for providing the worker with three meals a day during employment (if applicable), but in no event less than the amount permitted under § 655.173(a). Note that the FLSA applies independently of the H-2A requirements and imposes obligations on employers regarding payment of wages.


(2) *Transportation from place of employment.* If the worker completes the work contract period, or if the employee is terminated without cause, and the worker has no immediate subsequent H-2A employment, the employer must provide or pay for the worker's transportation and daily subsistence from the place of employment to the place from which the worker, disregarding intervening employment, departed to work for the employer. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer who has not agreed in such work contract to provide or pay for the worker's transportation and daily subsistence expenses from the employer's worksite to such subsequent employer's worksite, the employer must provide or pay for such expenses. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer who has agreed in such work contract to provide or pay for the worker's transportation and daily subsistence expenses from the employer's worksite to such subsequent employer's worksite, the subsequent employer must provide or pay for such expenses. The employer is not relieved of its obligation to provide or pay for return transportation and subsistence if an H-2A worker is displaced as a result of the employer's compliance with the 50 percent rule as described in § 655.135(d) with respect to the referrals made after the employer's date of need.


(3) *Transportation between living quarters and place of employment.* The employer must provide transportation between housing provided or secured by the employer and the employer's place of employment at no cost to the worker.


(4) *Employer-provided transportation.* (i) All employer-provided transportation must comply with all applicable local, State, or Federal laws and regulations, and must provide, at a minimum, the same transportation safety standards, driver's licensure, and vehicle insurance required under 29 U.S.C. 1841, 29 CFR 500.104 or 500.105, and 29 CFR 500.120 through 500.128.


(ii) The employer must not operate, or allow any other person to operate, any employer-provided transportation that is required by the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, including 49 CFR 571.208, to be manufactured with seat belts, unless all passengers and the driver are properly restrained by seat belts meeting standards established by the U.S. Department of Transportation, including 49 CFR 571.209 and 571.210.


(iii) The job offer must include a description of the modes of transportation (*e.g.,* type of vehicle) that will be used for inbound, outbound, daily, and any other transportation.


(iv) If workers' compensation is used to cover transportation in lieu of vehicle insurance, the employer must either ensure that the workers' compensation covers all travel or that vehicle insurance exists to provide coverage for travel not covered by workers' compensation and it must have property damage insurance.




(i) *Three-fourths guarantee*—(1) *Offer to worker.* The employer must guarantee to offer the worker employment for a total number of work hours equal to at least three-fourths of the workdays of the total period beginning with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment or the advertised contractual first date of need, whichever is later, and ending on the expiration date specified in the work contract or in its extensions, if any.


(i) For purposes of this paragraph (i)(1), a workday means the number of hours in a workday as stated in the job order and excludes the worker's Sabbath and Federal holidays. The employer must offer a total number of hours to ensure the provision of sufficient work to reach the three-fourths guarantee. The work hours must be offered during the work period specified in the work contract.


(ii) In the event the worker begins working later than the specified beginning date of the contract, the guarantee period begins with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment, and continues until the last day during which the work contract and all extensions thereof are in effect.


(iii) Therefore, if, for example, a work contract is for a 10-week period, during which a normal workweek is specified as 6 days a week, 8 hours per day, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for at least 360 hours (10 weeks × 48 hours/week = 480 hours × 75 percent = 360). If a Federal holiday occurred during the 10-week span, the 8 hours would be deducted from the total hours for the work contract, before the guarantee is calculated. Continuing with the above example, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for 354 hours (10 weeks × 48 hours/week = (480 hours−8 hours (Federal holiday)) × 75 percent = 354 hours).


(iv) A worker may be offered more than the specified hours of work on a single workday. For purposes of meeting the guarantee, however, the worker will not be required to work for more than the number of hours specified in the job order for a workday, or on the worker's Sabbath or Federal holidays. However, all hours of work actually performed may be counted by the employer in calculating whether the period of guaranteed employment has been met. If during the total work contract period the employer affords the U.S. or H-2A worker less employment than that required under this paragraph (i)(1), the employer must pay such worker the amount the worker would have earned had the worker, in fact, worked for the guaranteed number of days. An employer will not be considered to have met the work guarantee if the employer has merely offered work on three-fourths of the workdays if each workday did not consist of a full number of hours of work time as specified in the job order.


(2) *Guarantee for piece rate paid worker.* If the worker is paid on a piece rate basis, the employer must use the worker's average hourly piece rate earnings or the required hourly wage rate, whichever is higher, to calculate the amount due under the guarantee.


(3) *Failure to work.* Any hours the worker fails to work, up to a maximum of the number of hours specified in the job order for a workday, when the worker has been offered an opportunity to work in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section, and all hours of work actually performed (including voluntary work over 8 hours in a workday or on the worker's Sabbath or Federal holidays), may be counted by the employer in calculating whether the period of guaranteed employment has been met. An employer seeking to calculate whether the number of hours has been met must maintain the payroll records in accordance with this subpart.


(4) *Displaced H-2A worker.* The employer is not liable for payment of the three-fourths guarantee to an H-2A worker whom the CO certifies is displaced because of the employer's compliance with its obligation to hire U.S. workers who apply or are referred after the employer's date of need described in § 655.135(d) with respect to referrals made during that period.


(5) *Obligation to provide housing and meals.* Notwithstanding the three-fourths guarantee contained in this section, employers are obligated to provide housing and meals in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (g) of this section for each day of the contract period up until the day the workers depart for other H-2A employment, depart to the place outside of the United States from which the worker came, or, if the worker voluntarily abandons employment or is terminated for cause, the day of such abandonment or termination.




(j) *Earnings records.* (1) An employer must keep accurate and adequate records with respect to each worker's earnings, including, but not limited to, field tally records, supporting summary payroll records, and records showing the nature and amount of the work performed; the number of hours of work offered each day by the employer (broken out by hours offered both in accordance with and over and above the three-fourths guarantee at paragraph (i)(3) of this section); the hours actually worked each day by the worker; the time the worker began and ended each workday; the rate of pay (both piece rate and hourly, if applicable); the worker's earnings per pay period; the worker's permanent address and, when available, the worker's permanent email address and phone number(s); and the amount of and reasons for any and all deductions taken from the worker's wages. In the case of H-2A workers, the permanent address must be the worker's permanent address in the worker's home country.


(2) Each employer must keep the records required by paragraph (j) of this section, including field tally records and supporting summary payroll records, safe and accessible at the place or places of employment, or at one or more established central recordkeeping offices where such records are customarily maintained. All records must be available for inspection and transcription by the Secretary or a duly authorized and designated representative, and by the worker and representatives designated by the worker as evidenced by appropriate documentation (an Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative, Form G-28, signed by the worker, or an affidavit signed by the worker confirming such representation). Where the records are maintained at a central recordkeeping office, other than in the place or places of employment, such records must be made available for inspection and copying within 72 hours following notice from the Secretary, or a duly authorized and designated representative, and by the worker and designated representatives as described in this paragraph (j)(2).


(3) To assist in determining whether the three-fourths guarantee in paragraph (i) of this section has been met, if the number of hours worked by the worker on a day during the work contract period is less than the number of hours offered, as specified in the job offer, the records must state the reason or reasons therefore.


(4) The employer must retain the records for not less than 3 years after the date of the certification.




(k) *Hours and earnings statements.* The employer must furnish to the worker on or before each payday in one or more written statements the following information:


(1) The worker's total earnings for the pay period;


(2) The worker's hourly rate and/or piece rate of pay;


(3) The hours of employment offered to the worker (showing offers in accordance with the three-fourths guarantee as determined in paragraph (i) of this section, separate from any hours offered over and above the guarantee);


(4) The hours actually worked by the worker;


(5) An itemization of all deductions made from the worker's wages;


(6) If piece rates are used, the units produced daily;


(7) Beginning and ending dates of the pay period; and


(8) The employer's name, address, and FEIN.




(l) *Rates of pay.* Except for occupations covered by §§ 655.200 through 655.235, the employer must pay the worker at least the highest wage rate set forth in § 655.120(a)(1).


(1) The employer must calculate workers' wages using the wage rate that will result in the highest wages for each worker in each pay period. When calculating wages based on an hourly wage rate, the calculation must reflect every hour or portion thereof worked during a pay period. The wages actually paid cannot be lower than the wages that would result from the wage rate(s) guaranteed in the job order.


(2) Where the wage rates set forth in § 655.120(a)(1) include both hourly and non-hourly wage rates, the employer must calculate each worker's wages, in each pay period, using the highest wage rate for each unit of pay, and pay the worker the highest of these wages for that pay period. The wage actually paid cannot be lower than the wages that would result from the wage rate(s) guaranteed in the job offer.


(3) If the employer requires one or more minimum productivity standards of workers as a condition of job retention, such standards must be specified in the job offer and be no more than those required by the employer in 1977, unless the OFLC Administrator approves a higher minimum, or, if the employer first applied for temporary agricultural labor certification after 1977, such standards must be no more than those normally required (at the time of the first *Application for Temporary Employment Certification*) by other employers for the activity in the area of intended employment.


(4) If applicable, the employer must state in the job order:


(i) That overtime hours may be available;


(ii) The wage rate(s) to be paid for any such overtime hours;


(iii) The circumstances under which the wage rate(s) for overtime hours will be paid, including, but not limited to, after how many hours in a day or workweek the overtime wage rate will be paid, and whether overtime wage rates will vary between places of employment; and


(iv) Where the overtime pay is required by law, the applicable Federal, State, or local law requiring the overtime pay.




(m) *Frequency of pay.* The employer must state in the job offer the frequency with which the worker will be paid, which must be at least twice monthly or according to the prevailing practice in the area of intended employment, whichever is more frequent. Employers must pay wages when due.


(n) *Termination for cause or abandonment of employment.* (1) If a worker is terminated for cause or voluntarily abandons employment before the end of the contract period, and the employer notifies the NPC, and DHS in the case of an H-2A worker, in writing or by any other method specified by the Department in a notice published in the _Federal Register_ or specified by DHS not later than 2 working days after such termination for cause or abandonment occurs, the employer will not be responsible for providing or paying for the subsequent transportation and subsistence expenses of that worker under this section, and that worker is not entitled to the three-fourths guarantee described in paragraph (i) of this section, and, in the case of a U.S. worker, the employer will not be obligated to contact that worker under § 655.153.


(2) A worker is terminated for cause when the employer terminates the worker for failure to comply with employer policies or rules or to satisfactorily perform job duties in accordance with reasonable expectations based on criteria listed in the job offer.


(i) An employer may terminate a worker for cause only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:


(A) The employee has been informed (in a language understood by the worker), or reasonably should have known, of the policy, rule, or performance expectation;


(B) Compliance with the policy, rule, or performance expectation is within the worker's control;


(C) The policy, rule, or performance expectation is reasonable and applied consistently to the employer's H-2A workers and workers in corresponding employment;


(D) The employer undertakes a fair and objective investigation into the job performance or misconduct; and


(E) The employer corrects the worker's performance or behavior using progressive discipline, which is a system of graduated and reasonable responses to an employee's failure to satisfactorily perform job duties or comply with employer policies or rules. Disciplinary measures should be proportional to the misconduct or failure to meet performance expectations but may increase in severity if misconduct or failure to meet performance expectations is repeated, and may include immediate termination for egregious misconduct, meaning intentional or reckless conduct that is plainly illegal, poses imminent danger to physical safety, or that a reasonable person would understand as being outrageous. Prior to each disciplinary measure, the employer must notify the worker of the infraction and allow the worker to present evidence in their defense. Following each disciplinary measure, except where the appropriate disciplinary measure is termination, the employer must provide relevant and adequate instruction to the worker, and must afford the worker reasonable time to correct the behavior or to meet the performance expectation following such instruction. The employer must document each infraction and corresponding disciplinary measure, evidence the worker presented in their defense, and resulting instruction, and provide a copy of this documentation to the worker (in a language understood by the worker) within 1 week of the implementation of the disciplinary measure.


(ii) A worker is not terminated for cause where the termination is: contrary to a Federal, State, or local law; for an employee's refusal to work under conditions that the employee reasonably believes will expose them or other employees to an unreasonable health or safety risk; because of discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex (including sexual orientation or gender identity), religion, disability, familial status or citizenship status; or, where applicable, where the employer failed to comply with its obligations under § 655.135(m) in an investigatory interview that contributed to the termination.


(iii) The employer bears the burden of demonstrating that any termination for cause meets the requirements in paragraph (n)(2).


(3) Abandonment will be deemed to begin after a worker fails to report to work at the regularly scheduled time for 5 consecutive working days without the consent of the employer.


(4) The employer is required to maintain records described in this section for not less than 3 years from the date of the certification.


(i) Records of notification to the NPC, and to DHS in the case of an H-2A worker, of termination for cause or abandonment.


(ii) Disciplinary records, including the infraction and each step of progressive discipline, any evidence the worker presented in their defense, any investigation related to the termination, and any subsequent instruction afforded the worker.


(iii) Records indicating the reason(s) for termination of any worker, including disciplinary records as described in paragraph (n)(4)(ii) of this section and § 655.167.


(o) *Contract impossibility.* If, before the expiration date specified in the work contract, the services of the worker are no longer required for reasons beyond the control of the employer due to fire, weather, or other Act of God that makes the fulfillment of the contract impossible, the employer may terminate the work contract. Whether such an event constitutes a contract impossibility will be determined by the CO. In the event of such termination of a contract, the employer must fulfill a three-fourths guarantee for the time that has elapsed from the start of the work contract to the time of its termination, as described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. The employer must make efforts to transfer the worker to other comparable employment acceptable to the worker, consistent with existing immigration law, as applicable. If such transfer is not affected, the employer must:


(1) Return the worker, at the employer's expense, to the place from which the worker (disregarding intervening employment) came to work for the employer, or transport the worker to the worker's next certified H-2A employer, whichever the worker prefers;


(2) Reimburse the worker the full amount of any deductions made from the worker's pay by the employer for transportation and subsistence expenses to the place of employment; and


(3) Pay the worker for any costs incurred by the worker for transportation and daily subsistence to that employer's place of employment. Daily subsistence must be computed as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section. The amount of the transportation payment must not be less (and is not required to be more) than the most economical and reasonable common carrier transportation charges for the distances involved.


(p) *Deductions.* (1) The employer must make all deductions from the worker's paycheck required by law. The job offer must specify all deductions not required by law which the employer will make from the worker's paycheck. All deductions must be reasonable. The employer may deduct the cost of the worker's transportation and daily subsistence expenses to the place of employment which were borne directly by the employer. In such circumstances, the job offer must state that the worker will be reimbursed the full amount of such deduction upon the worker's completion of 50 percent of the work contract period. However, an employer subject to the FLSA may not make deductions that would violate the FLSA.


(2) A deduction is not reasonable if it includes a profit to the employer or to any affiliated person. A deduction that is primarily for the benefit or convenience of the employer will not be recognized as reasonable and therefore the cost of such an item may not be included in computing wages. The wage requirements of § 655.120 will not be met where undisclosed or unauthorized deductions, rebates, or refunds reduce the wage payment made to the employee below the minimum amounts required under this subpart, or where the employee fails to receive such amounts free and clear because the employee kicks back directly or indirectly to the employer or to another person for the employer's benefit the whole or part of the wage delivered to the employee. The principles applied in determining whether deductions are reasonable and payments are received free and clear, and the permissibility of deductions for payments to third persons are explained in more detail in 29 CFR part 531.


(q) *Disclosure of work contract.* The employer must provide to an H-2A worker not later than the time at which the worker applies for the visa, or to a worker in corresponding employment not later than on the day work commences, a copy of the work contract between the employer and the worker in a language understood by the worker as necessary or reasonable. For an H-2A worker going from an H-2A employer to a subsequent H-2A employer, the copy must be provided not later than the time an offer of employment is made by the subsequent H-2A employer. For an H-2A worker that does not require a visa for entry, the copy must be provided not later than the time of an offer of employment. At a minimum, the work contract must contain all of the provisions required by this section. In the absence of a separate, written work contract entered into between the employer and the worker, the work contract at a minimum will be the terms of the job order and any obligations required under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart.



---

[N] [87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34060, Apr. 29, 2024]




