# ยง 2.23   Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations: 


(1) *Related to congressional affairs.* (i) Exercise responsibility for coordination of all congressional matters in the Department. 


(ii) Maintain liaison with the Congress and the White House on legislative Matters of concern to the Department. 


(2)*Related to intergovernmental affairs.* (i) Coordinate all programs involving intergovernmental affairs including State and local government relations and liaison with: 


(A) National Association of State Departments of Agriculture; 


(B) Office of Intergovernmental Relations (Office of Vice President); 


(C) Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations; 


(D) Council of State Governments; 


(E) National Governors Conference; 


(F) National Association of Counties; 


(G) National League of Cities; 


(H) International City Managers Association; 


(I) U.S. Conference of Mayors; and 


(J) Such other State and Federal agencies, departments and organizations as are necessary in carrying out the responsibilities of this office. 


(ii) Maintain oversight of the activities of USDA representatives to the 10 Federal Regional councils. 


(iii) Serve as the USDA contact with the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations for implementation of OMB Circular A-85 to provide advance notification to state and local governments of proposed changes in Department programs that affect such governments. 


(iv) Act as the department representative for Federal executive board matters. 




(v) Oversee the Center for Faith Based and Neighborhood Partnerships.




(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [60 FR 56393, Nov. 8, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 27439, May 20, 2003; 69 FR 34252, June 21, 2004; 80 FR 58337, Sept. 29, 2015; 88 FR 70579, Oct. 12, 2023]






