# ยง 109.33   May a political party committee assign its coordinated party expenditure authority to another political party committee?

(a) *Assignment.* The national committee of a political party and a State committee of a political party, including any subordinate committee of a State committee, may assign its authority to make coordinated party expenditures authorized by 11 CFR 109.32 to another political party committee. Such an assignment must be made in writing, must state the amount of the authority assigned, and must be received by the assignee committee before any coordinated party expenditure is made pursuant to the assignment.


(b) *Compliance.* For purposes of the coordinated party expenditure limits, *State committee* includes a subordinate committee of a State committee and includes a district or local committee to which coordinated party expenditure authority has been assigned. State committees and subordinate State committees and such district or local committees combined shall not exceed the coordinated party expenditure limits set forth in 11 CFR 109.32. The State committee shall administer the limitation in one of the following ways: 


(1) The State committee shall be responsible for insuring that the coordinated party expenditures of the entire party organization are within the coordinated party expenditure limits, including receiving reports from any subordinate committee of a State committee or district or local committee making coordinated party expenditures under 11 CFR 109.32, and filing consolidated reports showing all coordinated party expenditures in the State with the Commission; or 


(2) Any other method, submitted in advance and approved by the Commission, that permits control over coordinated party expenditures. 


(c) *Recordkeeping.* (1) A political party committee that assigns its authority to make coordinated party expenditures under this section must maintain the written assignment for at least three years in accordance with 11 CFR 104.14. 


(2) A political party committee that is assigned authority to make coordinated party expenditures under this section must maintain the written assignment for at least three years in accordance with 11 CFR 104.14. 



---

[N] [68 FR 451, Jan. 3, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 63920, Nov. 3, 2004]




