# § 252.2   Definitions.

The terms used in this part that are defined in §§ 250.3 and 251.3 shall have the meanings ascribed to them therein, except as set forth in this section.


*Agreement value of the donated commodity* means the price assigned by the Department to a donated food which reflects the Department's current acquisition price, transportation and, if applicable, processing costs related to the food.


*Distributing agencies* means State, Federal or private agencies which enter into agreements with the Department for the distribution of donated food to eligible recipient agencies and recipients; and FNS when it accepts title to commodities from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) for distribution to eligible recipient agencies under the National Commodity Processing Program. A recipient agency may also be a distributing agency.


*Donated food value return system* means a system used by a processor or distributor to reduce the price of the end product by the agreement value of the donated commodity.


*NCP Program* means a program under which FNS and private processors of food may enter into agreements under which the processor will process and distribute designated donated food to eligible recipient agencies.


*Recipient agency* means disaster organizations, charitable institutions, nonprofit summer camps for children, school food service authorities, schools, service institutions, welfare agencies, nutrition programs for the elderly, nonresidential child care institutions and emergency feeding organizations.


*Refund* means (1) a credit or check issued to a distributor in an amount equal to the NCP contract value of donated foods contained in an end product sold by the distributor to a recipient agency at a discounted price or (2) a check issued to a recipient agency in an amount equal to the NCP contract value of donated foods contained in an end product sold to the recipient agency under a refund system.


*Substitution* means (1) the replacement of donated food with like quantities of domestically produced commercial food of the same generic identity and of equal or better quality (i.e., cheddar cheese for cheddar cheese, nonfat dry milk for nonfat dry milk, etc.); or (2) in the case of donated nonfat dry milk, substitution as defined under (1) of this paragraph or replacement with an equivalent amount, based on milk solids content, of domestically produced concentrated skim milk.



---

[N] [51 FR 23518, June 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 24977, July 2, 1987; 53 FR 34014, Sept. 2, 1988]




