# ยง 233.13   Memorandum of Agreement with Regional Administrator.

(a) Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part shall submit a Memorandum of Agreement executed by the Director and the Regional Administrator. The Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon approval of the State program. When more than one agency within a State has responsibility for administering the State program, Directors of each of the responsible State agencies shall be parties to the Memorandum of Agreement.


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement shall set out the State and Federal responsibilities for program administration and enforcement. These shall include, but not be limited to:


(1) Provisions specifying classes and categories of permit applications for which EPA will waive Federal review (as specified in ยง 233.51).


(2) Provisions specifying the frequency and content of reports, documents and other information which the State may be required to submit to EPA in addition to the annual report, as well as a provision establishing the submission date for the annual report. The State shall also allow EPA routinely to review State records, reports and files relevant to the administration and enforcement of the approved program.


(3) Provisions addressing EPA and State roles and coordination with respect to compliance monitoring and enforcement activities.


(4) Provisions addressing modification of the Memorandum of Agreement.


(5) Provisions specifying the date upon which the State shall begin administering its program. This effective date shall be 30 days from the date that notice of the Regional Administrator's decision is published in the _Federal Register_*,* except where the Regional Administrator has agreed to a State's request for a later effective date, not to exceed 180 days from the date of publication of the decision in the _Federal Register_.



---

[N] [53 FR 20776, June 1, 1988, as amended at 89 FR 103503, Dec. 18, 2024]  






