# § 70.168   Redemption of property.

(a) *Before sale.* Any person whose property has been levied upon shall have the right to pay the amount due, together with costs and expenses of the proceeding, if any, to the appropriate TTB officer at any time prior to the sale of the property. Upon such payment the appropriate TTB officer shall restore such property to the owner and all further proceedings in connection with the levy on such property shall cease from the time of such payment.


(b) *Redemption of real estate after sale*—(1) *Period.* The owner of any real estate sold as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6335, the owner's heirs, executors, or administrators, or any person having any interest therein, or a lien thereon, or any person in their behalf, shall be permitted to redeem the property sold, or any particular tract of such property, at any time within 180 days after the sale thereof.


(2) *Price.* Such property or tract of property may be redeemed upon payment to the purchaser, or in case the purchaser cannot be found in the county in which the property to be redeemed is situated, then to the appropriate TTB officer, for the use of the purchaser, the purchaser's heirs, or assigns, the amount paid by such purchaser and interest thereon at the rate of 20 percent per annum. In case real and personal property (or several tracts of real property) are purchased in the aggregate, the redemption price of the real property (or of each of the several tracts) shall be determined on the basis of the ratio, as of the time of sale, of the value of the real property (or tract) to the value of the total property purchased. For this purpose the minimum price or the highest bid price, whichever is higher, offered for the property separately or in groups shall be treated as the value.


(c) *Record.* When any real property is redeemed, the appropriate TTB officer must cause entry of the fact to be made upon the record of sale kept in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6340 and § 70.187 of this part, and such entry is evidence of such redemption. The party who redeems the property must notify the appropriate TTB officer of the date of such redemption and of the transfer of the certificate of sale, the amount of the redemption price, and the name of the party to whom such redemption price was paid. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-6, 38 FR 32445, Nov. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29026, May 29, 2001]




