# § 532.505   Night shift differentials.

(a) Employees shall be entitled to receive night shift differentials in accordance with section 5343 of title 5, United States Code.


(b) *Absence on holidays.* An employee regularly assigned to a shift for which a night shift differential is payable shall be paid the night shift differential for a period of excused absence on a legal holiday or other day off from duty granted by Executive or administrative order.


(c) *Travel status.* An employee regularly assigned to a shift for which a night shift differential is payable shall be paid the night shift differential for hours of the employee's tour of duty while in official travel status, regardless of whether the employee is performing work.


(d) *Temporary tour of duty.* (1) An employee regularly assigned to a night shift who is temporarily assigned to a day shift or to a night shift having a lower night shift differential shall continue to receive the regular night shift differential, a temporary detail for training purposes is also included—see 5 CFR 410.602.


(2) An employee regularly assigned to a night shift, who is temporarily assigned to another night shift having a higher differential, shall be paid the higher differential if a majority of the employee's regularly scheduled nonovertime hours of work on the temporary shift fall within hours having the higher differential.


(3) An employee regularly assigned to a day shift who is temporarily assigned to a night shift shall be paid a night shift differential.


(e) *Leave with pay.* (1) An employee regularly assigned to a night shift shall be paid a night shift differential during a period of leave with pay. 


(2) An employee regularly assigned to a day shift who is temporarily assigned to a night shift shall be paid a night shift differential for any leave with pay taken when scheduled to work night shifts. 


(3) An employee assigned to a regular rotating schedule involving work on both day and night shifts shall be paid a night shift differential only for any leave with pay taken when scheduled to work night shifts. 


(4) An employee who is not regularly assigned to a day shift or a night shift but whose shift is changed at irregular intervals shall be paid a night shift differential during leave with pay if the employee received a night shift differential for the last shift worked preceding leave with pay. 




