# § 30.4   Electronic Export Information filing procedures, deadlines, and certification statements.

Two electronic filing options (predeparture and postdeparture) for transmitting EEI are available to the USPPI or authorized agent. The electronic postdeparture filing takes into account that complete information concerning export shipments may not always be available prior to exportation and accommodates these circumstances by providing, when authorized, for filing of EEI after departure. For example, for exports of seasonal and agricultural commodities, only estimated quantities, values, and consignees may be known prior to exportation. The procedures for obtaining certification as an AES filer and for applying for authorization to file on a postdeparture basis are described in § 30.5.


(a) *EEI transmitted predeparture.* The EEI shall always be transmitted prior to departure for the following types of shipments:


(1) Used self-propelled vehicles as defined in 19 CFR 192.1 of U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations.


(2) Essential and precursor chemicals requiring a permit from the DEA;


(3) Shipments defined as “sensitive” by Executive Order;


(4) Shipments where a U.S. government agency requires predeparture filing;


(5) Shipments defined as “routed export transactions” (see § 30.3(e));


(6) Shipments where complete outbound manifests are required prior to clearing vessels going directly to the countries identified in U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations 19 CFR 4.75(c) and aircraft going directly or indirectly to those countries. (See U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulation 19 CFR 122.74(b)(2));


(7) Items identified on the USML of the ITAR (22 CFR 121);


(8) Shipments that require a license from the BIS and exports listed under BIS's grounds for denial of postdeparture filing status (see 15 CFR 758.2);


(9) Shipments that require a license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.


(10) Shipments of rough diamonds classified under HS subheadings 7102.10, 7102.21, and 7102.31 and exported (reexported) in accordance with the Kimberley Process; and


(11) Shipments for which the USPPI has not been approved for postdeparture filing.


(b) *Filing deadlines for EEI transmitted predeparture.* The USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the required EEI and have received the AES ITN no later than the time period specified as follows:


(1) For USML shipments, refer to the ITAR (22 CFR 123.22(b)(1)) for specific requirements concerning predeparture filing time frames. In addition, if a filer is unable to acquire an ITN because the AES or AES*Direct* is not operating, the filer shall not export until the AES is operating and an ITN is acquired. The downtime filing citation is not to be used when the filer's system is down or experiencing delays.


(2) For non-USML shipments, except shipments between the United States and Puerto Rico, file the EEI and provide the ITN as follows (See § 30.4(b)(3), for filing timeframes for shipments between the United States and Puerto Rico):


(i) For vessel cargo, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier twenty-four hours prior to loading cargo on the vessel at the U.S. port where the cargo is laden.


(ii) For air cargo, including cargo being transported by Air Express Couriers, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier no later than two (2) hours prior to the scheduled departure time of the aircraft.


(iii) For truck cargo, including cargo departing by Express Consignment Couriers, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier no later than one (1) hour prior to the arrival of the truck at the United States border to go foreign.


(iv) For rail cargo, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier no later than two (2) hours prior to the time the train arrives at the U.S. border to go foreign.


(v) For mail, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI as required by § 30.6 and provide the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend to the U.S. Postal Service no later than two (2) hours prior to exportation.


(vi) For all other modes, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the required EEI no later than two (2) hours prior to exportation.


(3) For shipments between the United States and Puerto Rico, the USPPI or authorized agent shall provide the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend to the exporting carrier by the time the shipment arrives at the port of unlading.


(4) For non-USML shipments when the AES or AES*Direct* is unavailable, use the following instructions:


(i) If the participant's AES is unavailable, the filer must delay the export of the goods or find an alternative filing method;


(ii) If AES or AES*Direct* is unavailable, the goods may be exported and the filer must:


(A) Provide the appropriate downtime filing citation as described in § 30.7(b) and appendix B of this part; and


(B) Report the EEI at the first opportunity AES or AES*Direct* is available.


(5) For used self-propelled vehicles as defined in 19 CFR 192.1 of U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI as required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation to the CBP at least 72 hours prior to export. The filer must also provide the carrier with the filing citation as required by paragraph (b) of this section.


(c) *EEI transmitted postdeparture*—(1) *Postdeparture filing procedures.* Postdeparture filing is only available for approved USPPIs. For all methods of transportation other than pipeline, approved USPPIs or their authorized agent may file data elements required in accordance with § 30.6 no later than five (5) calendar days after the date of exportation, except for shipments where predeparture filing is specifically required.


(2) *Pipeline filing procedures.* USPPIs or authorized agents may file data elements required by § 30.6 no later than four (4) calendar days following the end of the month. The operator of a pipeline may transport goods to a foreign country without the prior filing of the proof of filing citation, exemption, or exclusion legend, on the condition that within four (4) calendar days following the end of each calendar month the operator will deliver to the CBP Port Director the proof of filing citation, exemption, or exclusion legend covering all exports through the pipeline to each consignee during the month.


(d) *Proof of filing citation and exemption and exclusion legends.* The USPPI or the authorized agent shall provide the exporting carrier with the proof of filing citation and exemption and exclusion legends as described in § 30.7.


(e) *Collection of KPCs and voided KPCs.* Any voided KPC must be faxed by the voiding party to the Census Bureau on (800) 457-7328, or provided by other methods as permitted by the Census Bureau, immediately upon voiding. The collection of KPCs, including voided KPCs, is performed pursuant to the Clean Diamond Trade Act, Public Law 108-19, 19 U.S.C. Section 3901 *et seq.* (CDTA), and Executive Order 13312, and not Title 13, U.S.C.



---

[N] [73 FR 31555, June 2, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 16376, Mar. 14, 2013; 82 FR 18390, Apr. 19, 2017; 82 FR 43843, Sept. 20, 2017; 83 FR 17751, Apr. 24, 2018]




