# § 307.102   Definitions.

For purposes of this part—


*Agency*, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4211(5), means any agency of the Federal Government or the District of Columbia, including any Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, and the United States Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission.


*Covered veterans*, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4212(a)(3), means any of the following:


(1) Disabled veterans;


(2) Veterans who served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized;


(3) Veterans who, while serving on active duty with the Armed Forces, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal (AFSM) was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985 (61 FR 1209); and


(4) Recently separated veterans.


*Disabled veteran*, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4211 means:


(1) A veteran who is entitled to compensation (or who, but for the receipt of military retired pay, would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or


(2) A person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.


*Qualified*, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4212(a)(3) with respect to employment in a position, means having the ability to perform the essential functions of the position with or without reasonable accommodation for an individual with a disability.


*Recently separated veteran*, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4211(6), means any veteran during the three-year period beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty.


*Substantially continuous service* is defined in 5 CFR 315.201(b)(3).


*War* means any armed conflict declared by Congress as such.




