# § 515.19   Registration of foreign-based unlicensed NVOCC.

(a) Any NVOCC whose primary place of business is located outside the United States and does not elect to become licensed by the Commission shall register with the Commission by submitting to the Director of the Bureau of Certification and Licensing (BCL) a completed registration form, Form FMC-65 (Foreign-based Unlicensed NVOCC Registration/Renewal). A notice of each registration shall be published on the Commission's Web site *www.fmc.gov.* It is a violation of the Commission's regulations implementing the Shipping Act for a foreign-based unlicensed non-vessel-operating common carrier to provide NVOCC services in the U.S. foreign trade without a valid registration and an effective tariff.


(b) A registration form which appears, upon submission, to be substantially incomplete may be rejected. If rejected, a notice, together with the reasons therefore, shall be sent to the foreign-based unlicensed NVOCC. Persons who have had a registration rejected may submit a new registration at any time.






(c) Registrations are complete upon receipt of a registration form which meets the requirements of this section, evidence of financial responsibility pursuant to § 515.21, and Form FMC-1 pursuant to § 520.3.


(d) Registrations shall be effective for a period of three (3) years. Thereafter, registrations will be renewed for sequential three year periods upon submission of an updated registration form.


(e) A tariff shall not be published and NVOCC service shall not commence until the Commission receives valid proof of financial responsibility from the registrant and a Form FMC-1 has been submitted.


(f) Registered NVOCCs must report in writing to BCL any changes, within 30 days of such changes, to: legal name(s) or trade name(s); principal place of business address (including telephone number, facsimile number); contact person and email address (including physical address if different from principal place of business); name of resident agent(s) (including physical address, mailing address, email address, telephone and facsimile number(s), and contact person) in the United States for receipt of service of judicial and administrative process (including subpoenas).


(g) *Termination or suspension of registration*—(1) *Grounds.* A registration shall become automatically ineffective for a failure of a registered NVOCC to maintain proof of financial responsibility on file with the Commission. The effectiveness of such a registration may otherwise be terminated or suspended, after notice and the opportunity for a hearing, for any of the following reasons:


(i) Violation of any provision of the Act, or any other statute or Commission order or regulation related to carrying on the business of an ocean transportation intermediary;


(ii) Failure to respond to any lawful order or inquiry by the Commission or an authorized Commission representative;


(iii) Making a materially false or misleading statement to the Commission in connection with a registration or renewal thereof;


(iv) Failure to honor financial obligations to the Commission;


(v) Failure to timely renew a registration;


(vi) Failure to maintain a Form FMC-1 or a tariff in compliance with 46 CFR part 520;


(vii) Knowingly and willfully accepting cargo from or transporting cargo for the account of:


(A) an NVOCC that does not have a published tariff as required by 46 U.S.C. 40501 and part 520 of this chapter, and a bond, insurance, or other surety as required by 46 U.S.C. 40902 and this part; or


(B) an OFF that does not have a bond, insurance, or other surety as required by 46 U.S.C. 40902 and this part; and


(viii) Failure to designate and maintain a person in the United States as legal agent for the receipt of judicial and administrative process, including subpoenas, as required by § 515.24.


(2) *Hearing procedure.* Registrants may request a hearing for terminations or suspensions of the effectiveness of their registrations following the same procedures set forth in § 515.17 (governing hearing requests for denials, revocations and suspensions of licenses).


(3) *Publication of Notice.* The Commission shall publish on the Commission's Web site, *www.fmc.gov,* a notice of each termination or suspension.



---

[N] [78 FR 42887, July 18, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 68734, Nov. 5, 2015; 84 FR 62468, Nov. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9683, Feb. 20, 2020]




