# ยง 165.82   Scope of pesticide dispensing areas included.

(a) *What pesticide dispensing areas are subject to the regulations in this subpart?* A pesticide dispensing area is subject to the containment regulations in this subpart and must have a containment pad that complies with the requirements of this subpart if any of the following activities occur:


(1) Refillable containers of agricultural pesticide are emptied, cleaned or rinsed.


(2) Agricultural pesticides are dispensed from a stationary pesticide container designed to hold undivided quantities of agricultural pesticides equal to or greater than 500 gallons (1,890 liters) of liquid pesticide or equal to or greater than 4,000 pounds (1,818 kilograms) of dry pesticide for any purpose, including refilling or emptying for cleaning. This applies when pesticide is dispensed from the container into any vessel, including, but not limited to:


(i) Refillable containers;


(ii) Service containers;


(iii) Transport vehicles;


(iv) Application equipment.


(3) Agricultural pesticides are dispensed from a transport vehicle for purposes of filling a refillable container.


(4) Agricultural pesticides are dispensed from any other container for the purpose of refilling a refillable container for sale or distribution. Containment requirements do not apply if the agricultural pesticide is dispensed from such a container for use, application or purposes other than refilling for sale or distribution.


(b) *What pesticide dispensing areas are exempt from the regulations in this subpart?* A pesticide dispensing area is exempt from the regulations in this subpart if any of the following conditions exist:


(1) The only pesticides in the dispensing area would be gaseous when released at atmospheric temperature and pressure.


(2) The only pesticide containers refilled or emptied within the dispensing area are stationary pesticide containers which are already protected by a secondary containment unit that complies with the provisions of this subpart.


(3) The pesticide dispensing area is used solely for dispensing pesticide from a rail car which does not remain at a facility long enough to meet the definition of a stationary pesticide container; that is, 30 days.




