# § 21.32   Authorization—mortality events.

(a) Natural resource and public health employees performing official duties are authorized without a permit to collect, possess, transport, and dispose of migratory birds found sick, injured, or dead as part of a mortality event, which is an unforeseen event that results in an unexpectedly high number of sick or dead birds in a particular location over a short period of time from a cause that appears to be related. For example, multiple dead birds of taxonomically related species exhibiting similar clinical signs in a discrete geographic area over roughly the same time period with all of the birds exhibiting similar pathological behavior or clinical signs. Birds or their parts may be analyzed for suspected or confirmed cause of death.


(b) Natural resource and public health employees include employees of:


(1) Government natural resource agencies;


(2) Government public health agencies;


(3) Government agricultural agencies; and


(4) Laboratories working on behalf of such agencies.


(c) Sick or injured birds may be humanely euthanized or transported to a federally permitted rehabilitator or licensed veterinarian for care or euthanasia. If euthanized, specimens may be analyzed for cause of death.


(d) This authorization does not include take and possession of uninjured or asymptomatic birds. Take of asymptomatic birds, such as for disease monitoring, requires a scientific collecting permit (§ 21.73).


(e) This authorization does not apply to mortality events that do not readily appear to be disease-related.


(f) Notify the Service Office of Law Enforcement (see 50 CFR 10.22 for contact information) if you suspect birds were illegally killed or injured.


(g) If the mortality event involves eagles, you must immediately contact the National Eagle Repository. When possible, contact the Repository prior to salvage. Alternatively, you may turn in salvaged eagles to your Federal, Tribal, or State wildlife agency.


(h) Additional Federal, Tribal, State, or Territorial permits may be required. This authorization does not grant land access. You are responsible for obtaining permission from landowners when necessary and for complying with other applicable laws.





---

[N] [89 FR 107041, Dec. 31, 2024]














