# § 1.162-3   Materials and supplies.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Non-incidental materials and supplies.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, amounts paid to acquire or produce materials and supplies (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) are deductible in the taxable year in which the materials and supplies are first used in the taxpayer's operations or are consumed in the taxpayer's operations.


(2) *Incidental materials and supplies.* Amounts paid to acquire or produce incidental materials and supplies (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) that are carried on hand and for which no record of consumption is kept or of which physical inventories at the beginning and end of the taxable year are not taken, are deductible in the taxable year in which these amounts are paid, provided taxable income is clearly reflected.


(3) *Use or consumption of rotable and temporary spare parts.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, rotable and temporary spare parts (defined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section) are first used in the taxpayer's operations or are consumed in the taxpayer's operations in the taxable year in which the taxpayer disposes of the parts.


(b) *Coordination with other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.* Nothing in this section changes the treatment of any amount that is specifically provided for under any provision of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) or regulations other than section 162(a) or section 212 and the regulations under those sections. For example, see § 1.263(a)-3, which requires taxpayers to capitalize amounts paid to improve tangible property and section 263A and the regulations under section 263A, which require taxpayers to capitalize the direct and allocable indirect costs, including the cost of materials and supplies, of property produced by the taxpayer and property acquired for resale. See also § 1.471-1, which requires taxpayers to include in inventory certain materials and supplies.


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *Materials and supplies.* For purposes of this section, *materials and supplies* means tangible property that is used or consumed in the taxpayer's operations that is not inventory and that—


(i) Is a component acquired to maintain, repair, or improve a unit of tangible property (as determined under § 1.263(a)-3(e)) owned, leased, or serviced by the taxpayer and that is not acquired as part of any single unit of tangible property;


(ii) Consists of fuel, lubricants, water, and similar items, reasonably expected to be consumed in 12 months or less, beginning when used in the taxpayer's operations;


(iii) Is a unit of property as determined under § 1.263(a)-3(e) that has an economic useful life of 12 months or less, beginning when the property is used or consumed in the taxpayer's operations;


(iv) Is a unit of property as determined under § 1.263(a)-3(e) that has an acquisition cost or production cost (as determined under section 263A) of $200 or less (or other amount as identified in published guidance in the _Federal Register_ or in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter); or


(v) Is identified in published guidance in the _Federal Register_ or in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter) as materials and supplies for which treatment is permitted under this section.


(2) *Rotable and temporary spare parts.* For purposes of this section, rotable spare parts are materials and supplies under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section that are acquired for installation on a unit of property, removable from that unit of property, generally repaired or improved, and either reinstalled on the same or other property or stored for later installation. Temporary spare parts are materials and supplies under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section that are used temporarily until a new or repaired part can be installed and then are removed and stored for later installation.


(3) *Standby emergency spare parts.* Standby emergency spare parts are materials and supplies under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section that are—


(i) Acquired when particular machinery or equipment is acquired (or later acquired and set aside for use in particular machinery or equipment);


(ii) Set aside for use as replacements to avoid substantial operational time loss caused by emergencies due to particular machinery or equipment failure;


(iii) Located at or near the site of the installed related machinery or equipment so as to be readily available when needed;


(iv) Directly related to the particular machinery or piece of equipment they serve;


(v) Normally expensive;


(vi) Only available on special order and not readily available from a vendor or manufacturer;


(vii) Not subject to normal periodic replacement;


(viii) Not interchangeable in other machines or equipment;


(ix) [Reserved]


(x) Not acquired in quantity (generally only one is on hand for each piece of machinery or equipment); and


(xi) Not repaired and reused.


(4) *Economic useful life*—(i) *General rule.* The economic useful life of a unit of property is not necessarily the useful life inherent in the property but is the period over which the property may reasonably be expected to be useful to the taxpayer or, if the taxpayer is engaged in a trade or business or an activity for the production of income, the period over which the property may reasonably be expected to be useful to the taxpayer in its trade or business or for the production of income, as applicable. The factors that must be considered in determining this period are provided under § 1.167(a)-1(b).


(ii) *Taxpayers with an applicable financial statement.* For taxpayers with an applicable financial statement (as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section), the economic useful life of a unit of property, solely for the purposes of applying the provisions of this paragraph (c), is the useful life initially used by the taxpayer for purposes of determining depreciation in its applicable financial statement, regardless of any salvage value of the property. If a taxpayer does not have an applicable financial statement for the taxable year in which a unit of property was originally acquired or produced, the economic useful life of the unit of property must be determined under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Further, if a taxpayer treats amounts paid for a unit of property as an expense in its applicable financial statement on a basis other than the useful life of the property or if a taxpayer does not depreciate the unit of property on its applicable financial statement, the economic useful life of the unit of property must be determined under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. For example, if a taxpayer has a policy of treating as an expense on its applicable financial statement amounts paid for a unit of property costing less than a certain dollar amount, notwithstanding that the unit of property has a useful life of more than one year, the economic useful life of the unit of property must be determined under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Definition of applicable financial statement.* The taxpayer's applicable financial statement is the taxpayer's financial statement listed in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section that has the highest priority (including within paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(B) of this section). The financial statements are, in descending priority—


(A) A financial statement required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (the 10-K or the Annual Statement to Shareholders);


(B) A certified audited financial statement that is accompanied by the report of an independent certified public accountant (or in the case of a foreign entity, by the report of a similarly qualified independent professional), that is used for—


(*1*) Credit purposes;


(*2*) Reporting to shareholders, partners, or similar persons; or


(*3*) Any other substantial non-tax purpose; or


(C) A financial statement (other than a tax return) required to be provided to the federal or a state government or any federal or state agency (other than the SEC or the Internal Revenue Service).


(5) *Amount paid.* For purposes of this section, in the case of a taxpayer using an accrual method of accounting, the terms *amount paid* and *payment* mean a liability incurred (within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)). A liability may not be taken into account under this section prior to the taxable year during which the liability is incurred.


(6) *Produce.* For purposes of this section, *produce* means construct, build, install, manufacture, develop, create, raise, or grow. This definition is intended to have the same meaning as the definition used for purposes of section 263A(g)(1) and § 1.263A-2(a)(1)(i), except that improvements are excluded from the definition in this paragraph (c)(6) and are separately defined and addressed in § 1.263(a)-3. Amounts paid to produce materials and supplies are subject to section 263A.


(d) *Election to capitalize and depreciate certain materials and supplies*—(1) *In general.* A taxpayer may elect to treat as a capital expenditure and to treat as an asset subject to the allowance for depreciation the cost of any rotable spare part, temporary spare part, or standby emergency spare part as defined in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an election made under this paragraph (d) applies to amounts paid during the taxable year to acquire or produce any rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part to which paragraph (a) of this section would apply (but for the election under this paragraph (d)). Any property for which this election is made shall not be treated as a material or a supply.


(2) *Exceptions.* A taxpayer may not elect to capitalize and depreciate under this paragraph (d) any amount paid to acquire or produce a rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part defined in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section if— 


(i) The rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part is intended to be used as a component of a unit of property under paragraph (c)(1)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section;


(ii) The rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part is intended to be used as a component of a property described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) and the taxpayer cannot or has not elected to capitalize and depreciate that property under this paragraph (d); or


(iii) The amount is paid to acquire or produce a rotable or temporary spare part and the taxpayer uses the optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts under paragraph (e) to of this section.


(3) *Manner of electing.* A taxpayer makes the election under this paragraph (d) by capitalizing the amounts paid to acquire or produce a rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part in the taxable year the amounts are paid and by beginning to depreciate the costs when the asset is placed in service by the taxpayer for purposes of determining depreciation under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations. Section 1.263(a)-2 provides for the treatment of amounts paid to acquire or produce real or personal tangible property. A taxpayer must make the election under this paragraph (d) in its timely filed original Federal tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year the asset is placed in service by the taxpayer for purposes of determining depreciation. Sections 301.9100-1 through 301.9100-3 of this chapter provide the rules governing extensions of the time to make regulatory elections. In the case of an S corporation or a partnership, the election is made by the S corporation or partnership, and not by the shareholders or partners. A taxpayer may make an election for each rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part that qualifies for the election under this paragraph (d). This election does not apply to an asset or a portion thereof placed in service and disposed of in the same taxable year. A taxpayer may revoke an election made under this paragraph (d) or made under § 1.162-3T(d), as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2013, only by filing a request for a private letter ruling and obtaining the Commissioner's consent to revoke the election. The Commissioner may grant a request to revoke this election if the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith and the revocation will not prejudice the interests of the Government. See generally § 301.9100-3 of this chapter. The manner of electing and revoking the election to capitalize under this paragraph (d) or under § 1.162-3T(d), as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2013, may be modified through guidance of general applicability (see §§ 601.601(d)(2) and 601.602 of this chapter). An election may not be made or revoked through the filing of an application for change in accounting method or, before obtaining the Commissioner's consent to make the late election or to revoke the election, by filing an amended Federal tax return.


(e) *Optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (e) provides an optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts (the optional method for rotable parts). A taxpayer may use the optional method for rotable parts, instead of the general rule under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, to account for its rotable and temporary spare parts as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A taxpayer that uses the optional method for rotable parts must use this method for all of its pools of rotable and temporary spare parts used in the same trade or business and for which it uses this method for its books and records. If a taxpayer uses the optional method for rotable parts for pools of rotable and temporary spare parts for which the taxpayer does not use the optional method for its books and records, then the taxpayer must use the optional method for all its pools in the same trade or business, whether rotable or temporary. The optional method for rotable parts is a method of accounting under section 446(a). Under the optional method for rotable parts, the taxpayer must apply the rules in this paragraph (e) to each rotable or temporary spare part (part) upon the taxpayer's initial installation, removal, repair, maintenance or improvement, reinstallation, and disposal of each part.


(2) *Description of optional method for rotable parts*—(i) *Initial installation.* The taxpayer must deduct the amount paid to acquire or produce the part in the taxable year that the part is first installed on a unit of property for use in the taxpayer's operations.


(ii) *Removal from unit of property.* In each taxable year in which the part is removed from a unit of property to which it was initially or subsequently installed, the taxpayer must—


(A) Include in gross income the fair market value of the part; and


(B) Include in the basis of the part the fair market value of the part included in income under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and the amount paid to remove the part from the unit of property.


(iii) *Repair, maintenance, or improvement of part.* The taxpayer may not currently deduct and must include in the basis of the part any amounts paid to maintain, repair, or improve the part in the taxable year these amounts are paid.


(iv) *Reinstallation of part.* The taxpayer must deduct the amounts paid to reinstall the part and those amounts included in the basis of the part under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, to the extent that those amounts have not been previously deducted under this paragraph (e)(2)(iv), in the taxable year that the part is reinstalled on a unit of property.


(v) *Disposal of the part.* The taxpayer must deduct the amounts included in the basis of the part under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, to the extent that those amounts have not been previously deducted under paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section, in the taxable year in which the part is disposed of by the taxpayer.


(f) *Application of de minimis safe harbor.* If a taxpayer elects to apply the de minimis safe harbor under § 1.263(a)-1(f) to amounts paid for the production or acquisition of tangible property, then the taxpayer must apply the de minimis safe harbor to amounts paid for all materials and supplies that meet the requirements of § 1.263(a)-1(f), except for those materials and supplies that the taxpayer elects to capitalize and depreciate under paragraph (d) of this section or for which the taxpayer properly uses the optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts under paragraph (e) of this section. If the taxpayer properly applies the de minimis safe harbor under § 1.263(a)-1(f) to amounts paid for materials and supplies, then these amounts are not treated as amounts paid for materials and supplies under this section. See § 1.263(a)-1(f)(5) for the time and manner of electing the de minimis safe harbor and § 1.263(a)-1(f)(3)(iv) for the treatment of safe harbor amounts.


(g) *Sale or disposition of materials and supplies.* Upon sale or other disposition, materials and supplies as defined in this section are not treated as a capital asset under section 1221 or as property used in the trade or business under section 1231. Any asset for which the taxpayer makes the election to capitalize and depreciate under paragraph (d) of this section shall not be treated as a material or supply, and the recognition and character of the gain or loss for such depreciable asset are determined under other applicable provisions of the Code.


(h) *Examples.* The rules of this section are illustrated by the following examples, in which it is assumed, unless otherwise stated, that the property is not an incidental material or supply, that the taxpayer computes its income on a calendar year basis, that the taxpayer does not make the election to apply paragraph (d) of this section, or use the method of accounting described in paragraph (e) of this section, and that the taxpayer has not elected to apply the de minimis safe harbor under § 1.263(a)-1(f). The following examples illustrate only the application of this section and, unless otherwise stated, do not address the treatment under other provisions of the Code (for example, section 263A).


(i) *Accounting method changes.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, a change to comply with this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the accompanying regulations apply. A taxpayer seeking to change to a method of accounting permitted in this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with § 1.446-1(e) and follow the administrative procedures issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's consent to change its accounting method.


(j) *Effective/applicability date*—(1) *In general.* This section generally applies to amounts paid or incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. However, a taxpayer may apply paragraph (e) of this section (the optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts) to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section, § 1.162-3 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2011, applies to taxable years beginning before January 1, 2014.


(2) *Early application of this section*—(i) *In general.* Except for paragraph (e) of this section, a taxpayer may choose to apply this section to amounts paid or incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012. A taxpayer may choose to apply paragraph (e) of this section (the optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts) to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012.


(ii) *Transition rule for election to capitalize materials and supplies on 2012 and 2013 returns.* If under paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section, a taxpayer chooses to make the election to capitalize and depreciate certain materials and supplies under paragraph (d) of this section for its taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and ending on or before September 19, 2013 (applicable taxable year), and the taxpayer did not make the election specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section on its timely filed original Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year, the taxpayer must make the election specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the applicable taxable year by filing an amended Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year on or before 180 days from the due date including extensions of the taxpayer's Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year, notwithstanding that the taxpayer may not have extended the due date.


(3) *Optional application of TD 9564.* Except for § 1.162-3T(e), a taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.162-3T as contained in TD 9564 (76 FR 81060) December 27, 2011, to amounts paid or incurred (to acquire or produce property) in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014. In applying § 1.162-3T(d)(3), as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2013, a taxpayer makes the election under § 1.162-3T(d) by capitalizing the amounts paid to acquire or produce a material or supply in the taxable year the amounts are paid and by beginning to depreciate the costs when the asset is placed in service by the taxpayer for purposes of determining depreciation under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations. The election under § 1.162-3T(d), as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2013, does not apply to an asset or a portion thereof placed in service and disposed of in the same taxable year. A taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.162-3T(e) (the optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts) as contained in TD 9564 (76 FR 81060) December 27, 2011, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9636, 78 FR 57701, Sept. 19, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 42190, July 21, 2014]




