# ยง 2.214   What requirements apply to my submission of documents?

Except where a section in this part (or 43 CFR part 4 with respect to submissions to the IBIA) sets out other requirements, you must comply with the following provisions:


(a) *Information required in every submission.* (1) The submitter's contact information, consisting of name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address if any; or the name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address of the submitter's representative;


(2) A certificate of service by the submitter that the submission was served on all interested parties known to the submitter, a list of parties served, and the date and method of service; and


(3) The signature of the interested party or his or her representative.


(b) *Filing documents.* A document is properly filed with an agency official by:


(1) Personal delivery, either hand delivery by an interested party or via private mail carrier, during regular business hours to the person designated to receive mail in the immediate office of the official;


(2) United States mail to the facility officially designated for receipt of mail addressed to the official. The document is considered filed by mail on the date that it is postmarked; and


(3) Electronic mail (email) is permissible only in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (i) of this section.


(c) *Service generally.* A copy of each document filed in a proceeding under this part must be served by the filing party on the relevant agency official(s) and all other known interested parties. If an interested party is represented by an attorney, service of any document shall be made upon such attorney. Where an interested party is represented by more than one attorney, service upon one of the attorneys shall be sufficient.


(d) *Record address.* Every person who files a document in an appeal shall, at the time of the initial filing in the matter, provide his or her contact information. Such person must promptly inform the decision-maker or reviewing official of any change in address. Any successors in interest of such person shall promptly inform the decision-maker or reviewing official of his or her interest in the matter and provide contact information. Agency officials and other parties to an appeal shall have fulfilled their service requirement by transmitting documents to a party's last known address.


(e) *Computation of time for filing and service.* Documents must be filed within the deadlines established in this part (or by 43 CFR part 4 for filings submitted to the IBIA), or as established by Department officials in a particular matter. Except as otherwise provided by law, in computing any period of time prescribed for filing and serving a document, the day upon which the decision or document to be appealed from or answered was served, or the day of any other event after which the designated period of time begins to run, is not included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, Federal legal holiday, or other day on which the office to which the document is addressed is not conducting business, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day on which the office to which the document is addressed is conducting business. When the time prescribed or allowed is 7 days or less, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, Federal legal holidays, and other nonbusiness days shall be excluded in the computation.


(f) *Extensions of time.* (1) The deadline for filing and serving any document may be extended by the agency official before whom the proceeding is pending, except that the deadline for filing a Notice of Appeal may not be extended.


(2) A request for an extension of time must be filed within the time allowed for the filing or serving of the document.


(3) A request for extension of time must be filed with the same office as the document that is the subject of the request.


(g) *Formatting.* All submissions, except exhibits, must be typed in 12-point font, (double-spaced) using a standard 8
1/2- by 11-inch word processing format, except that a document submitted by an interested party who is not represented by an attorney may be hand-written. An agency official may decline to consider an illegible hand-written submission. An agency official who declines to consider a hand-written submission shall promptly notify the submitter of the decision not to consider the submission.


(h)* Page limits for particular filings are set out in the sections addressing those filings.* Attachments and exhibits not drafted by or for the submitter do not count toward the page limit.


(i) *Submitting and serving documents by email.* Submitting documents by email to an agency official is only permitted when the receiving official has notified the known interested parties that email submissions are acceptable. Documents may only be served via email on interested parties who have stated, in writing, their willingness to accept service by email. No single email submission may exceed 10 megabytes (MB). Submissions may be divided into separate emails for purposes of complying with this requirement. Filings submitted by email shall be in PDF format. Email submissions that arrive at the agency official's office after 5:00 p.m. shall be deemed to have arrived on the next work day.


(j) *Non-compliant submissions.* An agency official may decline to consider a submission that does not comply with the requirements in this section, or take other action she/he deems appropriate. A non-compliant submission is nonetheless a Federal record, and must be preserved as other Federal records.




