# ยง 63.1014   Open-ended valves or lines standards.

(a) *Compliance schedule.* The owner or operator shall comply with this section no later than the compliance dates specified in the referencing subpart.


(b) *Equipment and operational requirements.* (1) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in ยง 63.1002(b) and paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or during maintenance. The operational provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section also apply.


(2) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.


(3) When a double block and bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (b)(1) of this section at all other times.


(c) *Emergency shutdown exemption.* Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system that are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Polymerizing materials exemption.* Open-ended valves or lines containing materials that would autocatalytically polymerize or, would present an explosion, serious over pressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraph (b) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.




