# ยง 60.601   Definitions.

All terms that are used in this subpart and are not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Acrylic fiber* means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.


*Makeup solvent* means the solvent introduced into the affected facility that compensates for solvent lost from the affected facility during the manufacturing process.


*Nongaseous losses* means the solvent that is not volatilized during fiber production, and that escapes the process and is unavailable for recovery, or is in a form or concentration unsuitable for economical recovery.


*Polymer* means any of the natural or synthetic compounds of usually high molecular weight that consist of many repeated links, each link being a relatively light and simple molecule.


*Precipitation bath* means the water, solvent, or other chemical bath into which the polymer or prepolymer (partially reacted material) solution is extruded, and that causes physical or chemical changes to occur in the extruded solution to result in a semihardened polymeric fiber.


*Rayon fiber* means a manufactured fiber composed of regenerated cellulose, as well as manufactured fibers composed of regenerated cellulose in which substituents have replaced not more than 15 percent of the hydrogens of the hydroxyl groups.


*Reaction spinning process* means the fiber-forming process where a prepolymer is extruded into a fluid medium and solidification takes place by chemical reaction to form the final polymeric material.


*Recovered solvent* means the solvent captured from liquid and gaseous process streams that is concentrated in a control device and that may be purified for reuse.


*Solvent feed* means the solvent introduced into the spinning solution preparation system or precipitation bath. This feed stream includes the combination of recovered solvent and makeup solvent.


*Solvent inventory variation* means the normal changes in the total amount of solvent contained in the affected facility.


*Solvent recovery system* means the equipment associated with capture, transportation, collection, concentration, and purification of organic solvents. It may include enclosures, hoods, ducting, piping, scrubbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers, distillation equipment, and associated storage vessels.


*Solvent-spun synthetic fiber* means any synthetic fiber produced by a process that uses an organic solvent in the spinning solution, the precipitation bath, or processing of the sun fiber.


*Solvent-spun synthetic fiber process* means the total of all equipment having a common spinning solution preparation system or a common solvent recovery system, and that is used in the manufacture of solvent-spun synthetic fiber. It includes spinning solution preparation, spinning, fiber processing and solvent recovery, but does not include the polymer production equipment.


*Spandex fiber* means a manufactured fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is a long chain synthetic polymer comprised of at least 85 percent of a segmented polyurethane.


*Spinning solution* means the mixture of polymer, prepolymer, or copolymer and additives dissolved in solvent. The solution is prepared at a viscosity and solvent-to-polymer ratio that is suitable for extrusion into fibers.


*Spinning solution preparation system* means the equipment used to prepare spinning solutions; the system includes equipment for mixing, filtering, blending, and storage of the spinning solutions.


*Synthetic fiber* means any fiber composed partially or entirely of materials made by chemical synthesis, or made partially or entirely from chemically-modified naturally-occurring materials.


*Viscose process* means the fiber forming process where cellulose and concentrated caustic soda are reacted to form soda or alkali cellulose. This reacts with carbon disulfide to form sodium cellulose xanthate, which is then dissolved in a solution of caustic soda. After ripening, the solution is spun into an acid coagulating bath. This precipitates the cellulose in the form of a regenerated cellulose filament.



---

[N] [49 FR 13651, Apr. 5, 1984; 49 FR 18096, Apr. 27, 1984]




