# § 287.1   Definitions.

(a)(1) *External boundary.* The term *external boundary,* as used in section 287(a)(3) of the Act, means the land boundaries and the territorial sea of the United States extending 12 nautical miles from the baselines of the United States determined in accordance with international law.


(2) *Reasonable distance.* The term *reasonable distance,* as used in section 287(a) (3) of the Act, means within 100 air miles from any external boundary of the United States or any shorter distance which may be fixed by the chief patrol agent for CBP, or the special agent in charge for ICE, or, so far as the power to board and search aircraft is concerned any distance fixed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Reasonable distance; fixing by chief patrol agents and special agents in charge.* In fixing distances not exceeding 100 air miles pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, chief patrol agents and special agents in charge shall take into consideration topography, confluence of arteries of transportation leading from external boundaries, density of population, possible inconvenience to the traveling public, types of conveyances used, and reliable information as to movements of persons effecting illegal entry into the United States: *Provided,* That whenever in the opinion of a chief patrol agent or special agent in charge a distance in his or her sector or district of more than 100 air miles from any external boundary of the United States would because of unusual circumstances be reasonable, such chief patrol agent or special agent in charge shall forward a complete report with respect to the matter to the Commissioner of CBP, or the Assistant Secretary for ICE, as appropriate, who may, if he determines that such action is justified, declare such distance to be reasonable.


(c) *Patrolling the border.* The phrase *patrolling the border to prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States* as used in section 287 of the Immigration and Nationality Act means conducting such activities as are customary, or reasonable and necessary, to prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States.


(d) *Arrested by federal, state, or local law enforcement official.* The term *arrested,* as used in section 287(d) of the Act (as amended by section 1701 (Subtitle M) of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-509), means that an alien has been— 


(1) Physically taken into custody for a criminal violation of the controlled substance laws; and 


(2) Subsequently booked, charged or otherwise officially processed; or 


(3) Provided an initial appearance before a judicial officer where the alien has been informed of the charges and the right to counsel. 


(e) *Law enforcement or other official.* The phrase *law enforcement official (or other official),* as used in section 287(d) of the Act, means an officer or employee of an agency engaged in the administration of criminal justice pursuant to statute or executive order, including (1) courts; (2) a government agency or component which performs the administration of criminal justice as defined in 28 CFR part 20 including performance of any of the following activities: detection, apprehension, detention, pretrial release, post-trial release, prosecution, adjudication, correctional supervision, or rehabilitation of accused persons or criminal offenders. 


(f) *Controlled substance.* The term *controlled substance,* as used in section 287(d)(3) of the Act, shall mean the same as that referenced in the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801 *et seq.,* and shall include any substance contained in Schedules I through V of 21 CFR 1308.1 *et seq.* For the purposes of this chapter, the term *controlled substance* includes controlled substance analogues as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802(23) and 813. 


(g) *Basic immigration law enforcement training.* The phrase basic immigration law enforcement training, as used in §§ 287.5 and 287.8, means the successful completion of one of the following courses of training provided at the Immigration Officer Academy or Border Patrol Academy: Immigration Officer Basic Training Course after 1971; Border Patrol Basic Training Course after 1950; Immigration Detention Enforcement Officer Basic Training Course after 1977; and Immigration Customs Enforcement Special Agent Training, after 2002; or training substantially equivalent thereto as determined by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary for ICE with respect to personnel in their respective bureaus. The phrase basic immigration law enforcement training also means the successful completion of the Other than Permanent Full-Time (OTP) Immigration Inspector Basic Training Course after 1991 in the case of individuals who are OTP immigration inspectors. Conversion by OTP immigration to any other status requires training applicable to that position. 


(h) References to specific titles of officers mean all individuals holding such positions and any individual acting in such position. 


(i) Nothing in this part limits the authority of any DHS officers to act pursuant to any authorities that they may otherwise possess.



---

[N] [22 FR 9808, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 29 FR 13244, Sept. 24, 1964; 53 FR 9283, Mar. 22, 1988; 57 FR 47258, Oct. 15, 1992; 59 FR 42415, Aug. 17, 1994; 68 FR 35276, June 13, 2003]




