# § 1951.15   Return of paid-in-full or satisfied notes to borrower.

(a) *Notes not held in County Office.* When the original of the note is not held in the County Office the County Supervisor will request the Finance Office to acquire and forward the note to the County Office.


(b) *Return of notes after collection.* When a note (or loan-type account) evidencing an OL, EM, EE, EO, special livestock (SL), SW loan coded “24”, or other production-type loan has been satisfied by payment in full, the County Supervisor will examine the borrower's records in the County Office and determine that the account has been satisfied before delivering the note to the borrower (See § 1962.27 of subpart A of part 1962 on the satisfaction of chattel security instruments). The note(s) will be returned to the borrower immediately except that:


(1) When the final payment is made in a form other than currency and coin, Treasury check, cashier's check, certified check, Postal or bank money order, bank draft, or a check issued by a responsible lending institution or a responsible title insurance or title and trust company, the note or notes will not be surrendered until 30 days after the date of final payment, and


(2) When notes are needed in making marginal releases or satisfactions or security instruments, the notes will be held until the instruments are satisfied.


(c) *Surrender of notes to effect collection.* (1) County Supervisors are authorized to surrender notes to borrowers when final payment of the amount due is made in the form of currency and coin, Treasury check, cashier's check, certified check, Postal or bank money order, bank draft, or a check issued by a responsible lending institution or a responsible title insurance or title trust company.


(2) The amount due on the note(s) to be surrendered will be confirmed with the Finance Office. County Supervisors will request the original note(s) from the Finance Office if it is not in the County Office.


(d) *Return of notes reduced to judgment.* Notes which have been reduced to judgment are a part of the court records and ordinarily cannot be withdrawn and returned to the borrower even after satisfaction of the judgment. Therefore, no effort will be made to obtain and return such notes except on the written request of the judgment debtor or debtor's attorney. Such requests will be referred to the Office of the General Counsel (OGC).


(e) *Debt settlement case.* See subparts B or C of part 1956 of this chapter for the handling of notes in debt settlement cases.


(f) *Lost notes.* (1) All promissory notes dated on or after 11-1-73 are held in the County Office. A few notes (with the exception of OL notes) are still held by investors. If a note dated prior to 11-1-73 cannot be located in the County Office and it is needed for servicing the case, the County Supervisor will write a memorandum to the Finance Office explaining why the note is needed. The request should give the name and case number of the borrower, date and original amount of the loan, type of loan and loan code.


(2) If a promissory note is lost in the County Office and it is needed for servicing a case, the State Director may authorize the County Supervisor to execute an appropriate affidavit regarding the lost note. The form of such an affidavit will be provided by OGC.



---

[N] [50 FR 45764, Nov. 1, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 45432, Dec. 18, 1986; 53 FR 13100, Apr. 21, 1988; 56 FR 10147, Mar. 11, 1991]




