# ยง 52.978   Control strategy and regulations: Sulfur dioxide.

(a) *Determination of failure to attain.* Effective November 4, 2022, the EPA has determined that the St. Bernard Parish nonattainment area failed to attain the 2010 1-hour primary sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of October 4, 2018. This determination triggers the requirements of CAA section 179(d) for the State of Louisiana to submit a revision to the Louisiana SIP for the St. Bernard Parish nonattainment area to the EPA by October 5, 2023. The SIP revision must, among other elements, provide for attainment of the 1-hour primary SO_2_ NAAQS in the St. Bernard Parish SO_2_ nonattainment area as expeditiously as practicable but no later than October 5, 2027.


(b) *Determination of failure to attain.* Effective January 15, 2025, the EPA has determined that the Evangeline Parish nonattainment area failed to attain the 2010 1-hour primary sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) by the applicable statutory attainment date of April 9, 2023. This determination triggers the requirements of CAA section 179(d) for the State of Louisiana to submit a revision to the Louisiana SIP for the Evangeline Parish nonattainment area to the EPA December 16, 2024. The SIP revision must, among other elements, provide for attainment of the 1-hour primary SO_2_ NAAQS in the Evangeline Parish SO_2_ nonattainment area as expeditiously as practicable but no later than December 16, 2029.



---

[N] [87 FR 60292, Oct. 5, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 101477, Dec. 16, 2024]






