# § 63.7765   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in § 63.2, and in this section.


*Automated conveyor and pallet cooling line* means any dedicated conveyor line or area used for cooling molds received from pouring stations.


*Automated shakeout line* means any mechanical process unit designed for and dedicated to separating a casting from a mold. These mechanical processes include, but are not limited to, shaker decks, rotary separators, and high-frequency vibration units. Automated shakeout lines do not include manual processes for separating a casting from a mold, such as personnel using a hammer, chisel, pick ax, sledge hammer, or jackhammer.


*Bag leak detection system* means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.


*Binder chemical* means a component of a system of chemicals used to bind sand together into molds, mold sections, and cores through chemical reaction as opposed to pressure.


*Capture system* means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device or to the atmosphere. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.


*Cold box mold or core making line* means a mold or core making line in which the formed aggregate is hardened by catalysis with a gas.


*Combustion device* means an afterburner, thermal incinerator, or scrap preheater.


*Conveyance* means the system of equipment that is designed to capture pollutants at the source, convey them through ductwork, and exhaust them using forced ventilation. A conveyance may, but does not necessarily include, control equipment designed to reduce emissions of the pollutants. Emissions that are released through windows, vents, or other general building ventilation or exhaust systems are not considered to be discharged through a conveyance.


*Cooling* means the process of molten metal solidification within the mold and subsequent temperature reduction prior to shakeout.


*Cupola* means a vertical cylindrical shaft furnace that uses coke and forms of iron and steel such as scrap and foundry returns as the primary charge components and melts the iron and steel through combustion of the coke by a forced upward flow of heated air.


*Cupola shutdown* means the period beginning when the last of the molten metal is tapped from the cupola's primary tap hole and ending when the cupola is cooled and the cupola is either banked or the bottom contents are removed (“bottom drop”). *Cupola shutdown* includes the following steps: slag and residual metal removal from secondary tap; cupola cooling; and cupola banking or bottom drop.


*Cupola startup* means the commencement of activities needed to take a banked cupola or a cupola that has had the bottom dropped back into melt production. *Cupola startup* includes the following steps: refractory curing, if needed; cupola bed preparation (during which the sand bed is preheated), if needed; coke bed preparation (during which coke is added to the cupola and lit); and initial metallics charging.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source or an owner or operator of such an affected source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emissions limitation (including operating imits), work practice standard, or operation and maintenance requirement; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any iron and steel foundry required to obtain such a permit.


(3) A deviation is not always a violation. The determination of whether a deviation constitutes a violation of the standard is up to the discretion of the entity responsible for enforcement of the standards.


*Electric arc furnace* means a vessel in which forms of iron and steel such as scrap and foundry returns are melted through resistance heating by an electric current flowing through the arcs formed between the electrodes and the surface of the metal and also flowing through the metal between the arc paths.


*Electric induction furnace* means a vessel in which forms of iron and steel such as scrap and foundry returns are melted though resistance heating by an electric current that is induced in the metal by passing an alternating current through a coil surrounding the metal charge or surrounding a pool of molten metal at the bottom of the vessel.


*Emissions limitation* means any emissions limit or operating limit.


*Exhaust stream* means gases emitted from a process through a conveyance as defined in this subpart.


*Free organic liquids* means material that fails the paint filter test by EPA Method 9095A (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). That is, if any portion of the material passes through and drops from the filter within the 5-minute test period, the material contains free liquids.


*Fresh acid solution* means a sulfuric acid solution used for the control of triethylamine emissions that has a pH of 2.0 or less.


*Fugitive emissions* means any pollutant released to the atmosphere that is not discharged through a *conveyance* as defined in this subpart.


*Furan warm box mold or core making line* means a mold or core making line in which the binder chemical system used is that system commonly designated as a furan warm box system by the foundry industry.


*Hazardous air pollutant* means any substance on the list originally established in 112(b)(1) of the CAA and subsequently amended as published in the *Code of Federal Regulations.*

*Iron and steel foundry* means a facility or portion of a facility that melts scrap, ingot, and/or other forms of iron and/or steel and pours the resulting molten metal into molds to produce final or near final shape products for introduction into commerce. Research and development facilities and operations that only produce non-commercial castings are not included in this definition.


*Metal melting furnace* means a cupola, electric arc furnace, or electric induction furnace that converts scrap, foundry returns, and/or other solid forms of iron and/or steel to a liquid state. This definition does not include a holding furnace, an argon oxygen decarburization vessel, or ladle that receives molten metal from a metal melting furnace, to which metal ingots or other material may be added to adjust the metal chemistry.


*Mold or core making line* means the collection of equipment that is used to mix an aggregate of sand and binder chemicals, form the aggregate into final shape, and harden the formed aggregate. This definition does not include a line for making green sand molds or cores.


*Mold vent* means an intentional opening in a mold through which gases containing pyrolysis products of organic mold and core constituents produced by contact with or proximity to molten metal normally escape the mold during and after metal pouring.


*Off blast* means those periods of cupola operation when the cupola is not actively being used to produce molten metal. *Off blast* conditions include cupola startup and cupola shutdown. *Off blast* conditions also include idling conditions when the blast air is turned off or down to the point that the cupola does not produce additional molten metal.


*On blast* means those periods of cupola operation when combustion (blast) air is introduced to the cupola furnace and the furnace is capable of producing molten metal. On blast conditions are characterized by both blast air introduction and molten metal production.


*Pouring area* means an area, generally associated with floor and pit molding operations, in which molten metal is brought to each individual mold. Pouring areas include all pouring operations that do not meet the definition of a pouring station.


*Pouring station* means the fixed location to which molds are brought in a continuous or semicontinuous manner to receive molten metal, after which the molds are moved to a cooling area.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in § 63.2.


*Scrap preheater* means a vessel or other piece of equipment in which metal scrap that is to be used as melting furnace feed is heated to a temperature high enough to eliminate volatile impurities or other tramp materials by direct flame heating or similar means of heating. Scrap dryers, which solely remove moisture from metal scrap, are not considered to be scrap preheaters for purposes of this subpart.


*Scrubber blowdown* means liquor or slurry discharged from a wet scrubber that is either removed as a waste stream or processed to remove impurities or adjust its composition or pH before being returned to the scrubber.


*Total metal HAP* means, for the purposes of this subpart, the sum of the concentrations of antimony, arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel, and selenium as measured by EPA Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). Only the measured concentration of the listed analytes that are present at concentrations exceeding one-half the quantitation limit of the analytical method are to be used in the sum. If any of the analytes are not detected or are detected at concentrations less than one-half the quantitation limit of the analytical method, the concentration of those analytes will be assumed to be zero for the purposes of calculating the total metal HAP for this subpart.


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the CAA.



---

[N] [69 FR 21923, Apr. 22, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 29404, May 20, 2005; 73 FR 7222, Feb. 7, 2008; 85 FR 56099, Sept. 10, 2020]









