# ยง 208.122   Reporting.

(a) A state member bank is required to file the report of condition (Call Report) in accordance with the instructions for these reports. All assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and liabilities, must be reported in, or otherwise taken into account in the preparation of, the Call Report. The Board uses Call Report data to monitor the condition, performance, and risk profile of individual state member banks and the banking industry. Reporting state member banks must also submit annually such information on small business and small farm lending as the Board may need to assess the availability of credit to these sectors of the economy. The report forms and instructions can be obtained from Federal Reserve District Banks or through the website of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, *http://www.ffiec.gov/.*

(b) Every insured U.S. branch of a foreign bank is required to file the FFIEC 002 version of the report of condition (Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks) in accordance with the instructions for the report. All assets and liabilities, including contingent assets and liabilities, must be reported in, or otherwise taken into account in the preparation of the report. The Board uses the reported data to monitor the condition, performance, and risk profile of individual insured branches and the banking industry. Insured branches must also submit annually such information on small business and small farm lending as the Board may need to assess the availability of credit to these sectors of the economy. The report forms and instructions can be obtained from Federal Reserve District Banks or through the website of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, *http://www.ffiec.gov/.*

