# § 4022.82   Method of recoupment.

(a) *Future benefit reduction.* The PBGC will recoup net overpayments of benefits by reducing the amount of each future benefit payment to which the participant or any beneficiary is entitled by the fraction determined under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except that benefit reduction will cease when the amount (without interest) of the net overpayment is recouped. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the PBGC may accept repayment ahead of the recoupment schedule.


(1) *Computation.* The PBGC will determine the fractional multiplier by dividing the amount of the net overpayment by the present value of the benefit payable with respect to the participant under title IV of ERISA.


(i) *Non-PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination.* In a non-PPA bankruptcy termination, the PBGC will determine the present value of the benefit to which a participant or beneficiary is entitled under title IV of ERISA as of the termination date, using the PBGC interest rates and factors in effect on that date.


(ii) *PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination.* In a PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination, PBGC will determine the amount of benefit payable with respect to the participant under title IV of ERISA taking into account the limitations in sections 4022(g) and 4044(e) (and corresponding provisions of these regulations), and will determine the present value of that amount as of the termination date, using PBGC interest rates and factors in effect on the termination date.


(iii) *Facts and circumstances.* The PBGC may, however, utilize a different date of determination if warranted by the facts and circumstances of a particular case.


(2) *Limitation on benefit reduction.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the PBGC will reduce benefits with respect to a participant or beneficiary by no more than the greater of—


(i) Ten percent per month; or


(ii) The amount of benefit per month in excess of the maximum guaranteeable benefit payable under section 4022(b)(3)(B) of ERISA, determined without adjustment for age and benefit form.


(3) *PBGC notice to participant or beneficiary.* Before effecting a benefit reduction pursuant to this paragraph, the PBGC will notify the participant or beneficiary in writing of the amount of the net overpayment and of the amount of the reduced benefit computed under this section.


(4) *Waiver of de minimis amounts.* The PBGC may, in its discretion, decide not to recoup net overpayments that it determines to be *de minimis.*

(5) *Final installment.* The PBGC will cease recoupment one month early if the amount remaining to be recouped in the final month is less than the amount of the monthly reduction.


(b) *Full repayment through recoupment.* Recoupment under this section constitutes full repayment of the net overpayment.



---

[N] [63 FR 29354, May 29, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 34604, June 14, 2011]




