# ยง 1427.1202   Definitions.

The following definitions apply as used in this subpart:


*Consumption* means the use of eligible ELS cotton by a domestic user in the manufacture in the United States of cotton products.


*Cotton product* means any product containing cotton fibers that result from the use of an eligible bale of ELS cotton in manufacturing.


*Current shipment price* means, during the period in which two daily price quotations are available for the LFQ for the foreign growth, quoted C/F Far East, the price quotation for cotton for shipment no later than August/September of the current calendar year.


*ELS* means Extra Long Staple.


*Forward shipment price* means, during the period in which two daily price quotations are available for the LFQ for foreign growths, quoted C/F Far East, the price quotation for cotton for shipment no earlier than October/November of the current calendar year.


*LFQ* means, during the period in which only one daily price quotation is available for the growth, the lowest average for the preceding Friday through Thursday week of the price quotations for foreign growths of ELS cotton, quoted cost and freight (C/F) Far East, after each respective average is adjusted for quality differences between the respective foreign growth and U.S. Pima, of the base quality.


(1) *Adjusted LFQ* means the LFQ adjusted to reflect the estimated cost of transportation between an average U.S. location and destination ports in the Far East.


(2) *LFQc* means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the current shipment prices for the lowest adjusted foreign growth, C/F Far East.


(3) *LFQf* means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the forward shipment prices for the lowest adjusted foreign growth, quoted C/F Far East.


*USPFE* means the Friday through Thursday weekly average of the price quotation for base quality U.S. Pima cotton, as determined by CCC for purposes of administering this subpart, C/F Far East.


(1) *USPFEc* means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the current shipment prices for U.S. Pima cotton, C/F Far East.


(2) *USPFEf* means the preceding Friday through Thursday average of the forward shipment prices for U.S. Pima cotton, C/F Far East.




