# ยง 655.10   Reports of condition.

(a) *General.* The Corporation must prepare and publish annual reports to its shareholders of its condition, including financial statements and related schedules, exhibits, and other documents that are part of the reports. The contents of each report must be equivalent in content to the annual report to shareholders required by the Securities Act unless we issue instructions otherwise.


(b) *Signatures and certification.* Each report issued under this subpart must be signed. The Corporation must designate the representatives who will sign each report. The name and position title of each person signing the report must be printed beneath his or her signature. The signatories must certify the report by using the SEC rules on certifications for disclosures in annual reports to shareholders.


(c) *Distribution.* The Corporation must distribute the signed annual report of condition to its shareholders within 120 days of its fiscal year-end. Within 5 days of signing, the Corporation must provide to us an electronic copy of every signed report that is distributed to its shareholders. If it is impossible to provide an electronic copy, a paper copy must be submitted within the required time frame and an electronic copy as soon as possible after that.


(1) The Corporation must publish on its Web site a copy of each annual report to shareholders within 3 business days of filing the report with us. The report must remain on the Web site until the next report is posted. When the reports are the same as those filed with the SEC, electronic links to the SEC filings Web site may be used in satisfaction of this requirement.


(2) Upon receiving a request for an annual report of condition from a stockholder, investor, or the public, the Corporation must promptly provide the requester the most recent annual report issued in compliance with this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 49155, July 27, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 27798, May 24, 2021]




