# § 35.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *ALJ* means an administrative law judge in the Department of the Interior appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Department of the Interior pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.


(b) *Benefit* means, in the context of “statement”, anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.


(c) *Claim* means any request, demand, or submission—


(1) Made to the Department of the Interior for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);


(2) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the Department of the Interior or to a party to a contract with the Department of the Interior—


(i) For property or services if the United States—


(A) Provided such property or services;


(B) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or


(C) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or


(ii) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—


(A) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or


(B) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or


(3) Made to the Department of the Interior which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.


(d) *Complaint* means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 35.7 of this part.


(e) *Defendant* means any person alleged in a complaint under § 35.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 35.3 of this part.


(f) *Department* means the Department of the Interior.


(g) *Director* means the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, Office of the Secretary, who is the designee of the Secretary of the Interior authorized to consider and decide finally for the Department appeals under this part. The authority delegated to the Director includes the authority to redelegate appellate review authority to an *ad hoc* board of appeals appointed in accordance with 43 CFR 4.1(b)(4). Appeals to the Secretary under this part should be mailed or delivered to the Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Documents will be considered filed when received in the office of the Director.


(h) *Government* means the U.S. Government.


(i) *Individual* means a natural person.


(j) *Initial decision* means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 35.10 or § 35.37 of this part, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration


(k) *Investigating official* means the Inspector General of the Department of the Interior or an officer or employee of the Office of Inspector General designated by the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


(l) *Knows or has reason to know,* means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—


(1) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(2) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or


(3) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.


(m) *Makes,* wherever it appears, shall include the terms “presents,” “submits,” and “causes to be made, presented, or submitted.” As the context requires, “making” or “made”, shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.


(n) *Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private oganization, and includes the plural of that term.


(o) *Representative* means an attorney who is a member in good standing of the bar of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or of the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or other representative meeting the qualifications of a non-attorney representative found at 43 CFR 1.3 and designated in writing.


(p) *Reviewing official* means the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior or his designated representative, who is:


(1) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official; and


(2) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


(q) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or his designated representative.


(r) *Statement* means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—


(1) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or


(2) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—


(i) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or


(ii) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the Department of the Interior, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.



---

[N] [53 FR 4160, Feb. 12, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 4369, Jan. 30, 2002; 67 FR 12885, Mar. 20, 2002]




