# § 184.1903   Tributyrin.

(a) Tributyrin (C_15_H_26_O_6_, CAS Reg. No. 60-01-5), also known as butyrin or glyceryl tributyrate, is the triester of glycerin and butyric acid. It is prepared by esterification of glycerin with excess butyric acid.


(b) The ingredient meets the specification of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 416, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used in food as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice; baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; alcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(2) of this chapter; nonalcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; fats and oils as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter; frozen dairy desserts and mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter; gelatins, puddings and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [54 FR 7404, Feb. 21, 1989; 54 FR 10482, Mar. 13, 1989]




