# § 740.9   Temporary imports, exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) (TMP).

This License Exception authorizes various temporary exports and reexports; exports and reexports of items temporarily in the United States; and exports and reexports of beta test software.


(a) *Temporary exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country).* License Exception TMP authorizes exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items for temporary use abroad (including use in or above international waters) subject to the conditions specified in this paragraph (a). No item may be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a) if an order to acquire the item, such as a purchase order, has been received before shipment; with prior knowledge that the item will stay abroad beyond the terms of this License Exception; or when the item is for subsequent lease or rental abroad. The references to various countries and country groups in these TMP-specific provisions do not limit or amend the prohibitions in § 740.2 of the EAR on the use of license exceptions generally, such as for exports of 9x515 or “600 series” items to destinations in Country Group D:5. This paragraph (a) does not authorize any export of a commodity controlled under ECCNs 0A501.a or .b, 0A506 or 0A507, or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled under ECCN 0A502 or 0A508 to, or any export of such an item that was imported into the United States from, a country in Country Group D:5 (supplement no. 1 to this part), or from Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan. The only provisions of this paragraph (a) that are eligible for use to export such items are paragraph (a)(5) of this section (“Exhibition and demonstration”) and paragraph (a)(6) of this section (“Inspection, test, calibration, and repair”). In addition, this paragraph (a) may not be used to export more than 75 firearms per shipment. In accordance with the requirements in § 758.1(b)(9) and (g)(4) of the EAR, the exporter or its agent must provide documentation that includes the serial number, make, model, and caliber of each firearm being exported by filing these data elements in an EEI filing in AES. In accordance with the exclusions in License Exception TMP under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the entry clearance requirements in § 758.1(b)(9) do not permit the temporary import of: Firearms controlled in ECCNs 0A501.a or .b, 0A506, or 0A507 that are shipped from or manufactured in a Country Group D:5 country, or that are shipped from or manufactured in Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan (except for any firearm model designation (if assigned) controlled by ECCNs 0A501, 0A506, or 0A507 that is specified under annex A in supplement no. 4 to this part); or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in ECCNs 0A502 or 0A508 that are shipped from or manufactured in a Country Group D:5 country, or from Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan, because of the exclusions in License Exception TMP under paragraph (b)(5) of this section.




(1) *Tools of trade.* Exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of commodities and software as tools of trade for use by the exporter or employees of the exporter may be made only to destinations other than Country Group E:1 and for MT controlled commodities or software may be made only to destinations other than Country Groups D:4 and D:5. The tools of trade must remain under the “effective control” of the exporter or the exporter's employee. Eligible items are usual and reasonable kinds and quantities of tools of trade for use in a lawful enterprise or undertaking of the exporter. Tools of trade include, but are not limited to, commodities and software as is necessary to commission or service items, provided that the commodity or software is appropriate for this purpose and that all items to be commissioned or serviced are of foreign origin, or if subject to the EAR, have been lawfully exported, reexported, or transferred. Tools of trade may accompany the individual departing from the United States or may be shipped unaccompanied within one month before the individual's departure from the United States, or at any time after departure. Software used as a tool of trade must be protected against unauthorized access. Examples of security precautions to help prevent unauthorized access include the following:


(i) Use of secure connections, such as Virtual Private Network connections, when accessing IT networks for activities that involve the transmission and use of the software authorized under this license exception;


(ii) Use of password systems on electronic devices that store the software authorized under this license exception; and


(iii) Use of personal firewalls on electronic devices that store the software authorized under this license exception.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) “Technology,” regardless of media or format, may be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) by or to a U.S. person, or a foreign person employee of a U.S. person traveling or on temporary assignment abroad, subject to the following restrictions:


(i) Foreign persons may only export, reexport, transfer (in country) or receive such “technology” as they are authorized to receive through a license, license exception other than TMP or because no license is required.


(ii) “Technology” exported, reexported, or transferred under this authorization may only be possessed or used by a U.S. person or authorized foreign person. Sufficient security precautions must be taken to prevent the unauthorized release of the “technology.” Such security precautions may include encryption of the “technology,” the use of secure network connections, such as Virtual Private Networks, the use of passwords or other access restrictions on the electronic device or media on which the “technology” is stored, and the use of firewalls and other network security measures to prevent unauthorized access.


(iii) The individual is an employee of the U.S. Government or is directly employed by a U.S. person and not, *e.g.,* by a foreign subsidiary.


(iv) “Technology” authorized under this exception may not be used for foreign production purposes or for technical assistance unless authorized through a license or license exception other than TMP.


(4) *Kits consisting of replacement parts or components.* Kits consisting of replacement parts or components may be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) to all destinations except Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR), provided that:


(i) The parts and components would qualify for shipment under paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section if exported as one-for-one replacements;


(ii) The kits remain under effective control of the exporter or an employee of the exporter; and


(iii) All parts and components in the kit are returned, except that one-for-one replacements may be made in accordance with the requirements of License Exception RPL and the defective parts and components returned (see Parts, Components, Accessories and Attachments in § 740.10(a) of this part).


(5) *Exhibition and demonstration.* This paragraph (a)(5) authorizes exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of commodities and software for exhibition or demonstration in all destinations except Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) provided that the exporter maintains ownership of the commodities and software while they are abroad and provided that the exporter, an employee of the exporter, or the exporter's designated sales representative retains “effective control” over the commodities and software while they are abroad. The commodities and software may not be used when abroad for more than the minimum extent required for effective demonstration. The commodities and software may not be exhibited or demonstrated at any one site for longer than 120 days after installation and debugging, unless authorized by BIS. However, before or after an exhibition or demonstration, pending movement to another site, return to the United States or the foreign reexporter, or BIS approval for other disposition, the commodities and software may be placed in a bonded warehouse or a storage facility provided that the exporter retains “effective control” over their disposition. The export documentation for this type of transaction must show the exporter as ultimate consignee, in care of the person who will have control over the commodities and software abroad.


(6) *Inspection, test, calibration, and repair.* Commodities to be inspected, tested, calibrated, or repaired abroad may be exported, reexported, and transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a)(6) to all destinations except Country Group E:1.


(7) *Containers.* Containers for which another license exception is not available and that are necessary for shipment of commodities may be exported, reexported, and transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a)(7). However, this paragraph does not authorize the export of the container's contents, which, if not exempt from licensing, must be separately authorized for export under either a license exception or a license.


(8) *Assembly in Mexico.* Commodities may be exported to Mexico under Customs entries that require return to the United States after processing, assembly, or incorporation into end products by companies, factories, or facilities participating in Mexico's in-bond industrialization program (IMMEX) under this paragraph (a)(8), provided that all resulting end-products (or the commodities themselves) are returned to the United States as soon as practicable but no later than four years after the date of export or reexport.


(9) *News media.* (i) Commodities necessary for news-gathering purposes (and software necessary to use such commodities) may be temporarily exported, reexported, or transferred (in-county) for accredited news media personnel (*i.e.,* persons with credentials from a news-gathering or reporting firm) to or within Belarus, Cuba, North Korea, Russia, and Syria (see supplement no. 1 to part 740), or the Crimea region of Ukraine and covered regions of Ukraine (as specified in § 746.6) if the commodities:


(A) Are retained under “effective control” of the exporting news-gathering firm in the country of destination;


(B) Remain in the physical possession of the news media personnel in the country of destination. The term physical possession for purposes of this paragraph (a)(9) means maintaining effective measures to prevent unauthorized access (e.g., securing equipment in locked facilities or hiring security guards to protect the equipment); and


(C) Are removed with the news media personnel at the end of the trip.


(ii) When exporting under this paragraph (a)(9) from the United States, the exporter must email a copy of the packing list or similar identification of the exported commodities, to *bis.compliance@bis.doc.gov* specifying the destination and estimated dates of departure and return. The Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) may check returns to assure that the provisions of this paragraph (a)(9) are being used properly.


(iii) Commodities or software necessary for news-gathering purposes that accompany news media personnel to all other destinations shall be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under paragraph (a)(1), *tools of trade,* of this section if owned by the news gathering firm, or if they are personal property of the individual news media personnel. Note that paragraphs (a)(1), *tools of trade,* and (a)(9), *news media,* of this section do not preclude independent accredited contract personnel, who are under control of news-gathering firms while on assignment, from using these provisions, provided that the news gathering firm designates an employee of the contract firm to be responsible for the equipment.


(10) *Temporary exports to a U.S. person's foreign subsidiary, affiliate, or facility abroad.* Components, parts, tools, accessories, or test equipment exported by a U.S. person to a subsidiary, affiliate, or facility owned or controlled by the U.S. person, if the components, parts, tools, accessories, or test equipment are to be used to manufacture, assemble, test, produce, or modify items, provided that such components, parts, tools, accessories or test equipment are not transferred (in-country) or reexported from such subsidiary, affiliate, or facility, alone or incorporated into another item, without prior authorization by BIS.


(11) *Personal protective “equipment” classified under ECCN 1A613.c or .d and individual protection “equipment” classified under ECCN 1A607.f*—(i) *Temporary exports, reexports, or in-country transfers to countries not identified in Country Group D:5.* U.S. persons may temporarily export or reexport one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to countries not identified in Country Group D:5, provided that:


(A) The items are with the U.S. person's baggage or effects, whether accompanied or unaccompanied (but not mailed); *and*

(B) The items are for that U.S. person's exclusive use and not for transfer of ownership unless reexported or transferred (in-country) to another U.S. person.


(ii) *Temporary exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to countries identified in Country Group D:5*—(A) *Iraq.* U.S. persons may temporarily export or reexport one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to Iraq, for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section are met. In addition, the U.S. person must be affiliated with the U.S. Government and traveling on official business or traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract, or the U.S. person must be traveling to Iraq under a direct authorization by the Government of Iraq and engaging in activities for, on behalf of, or at the request of, the Government of Iraq. Documentation regarding direct authorization from the Government of Iraq shall include an English translation.


(B) *Other countries in Country Group D:5.* U.S. persons may temporarily export or reexport one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to countries in Country Group D:5 (except Iraq), for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section are met, and the U.S. person is affiliated with the U.S. Government traveling on official business or is traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract.


(iii) Items exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a)(11), if not consumed or destroyed in the normal course of authorized temporary use abroad, must be returned to the United States or other country from which the items were so transferred as soon as practicable but no later than four years after the date of export, reexport or transfer (in-country).


(12) *U.S. persons.* For purposes of this § 740.9, a U.S. person is defined as follows: an individual who is a citizen of the United States, an individual who is a lawful permanent resident as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(2) or an individual who is a protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3). U.S. person also means any juridical person organized under the laws of the United States, or any jurisdiction within the United States (e.g., corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group that is authorized to do business in the United States).


(13) *Destinations.* Destination restrictions apply to temporary exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to and for use on any vessel, aircraft or territory under ownership, control, lease, or charter by any country specified in any authorizing paragraph of this section, or any national thereof.


(14) *Return or disposal of items.* With the exception of items described in paragraphs (a)(8) and (11) of this section, all items exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this section must, if not consumed or destroyed in the normal course of authorized temporary use abroad, be returned to the United States or other country from which the items were so transferred as soon as practicable but no later than one year after the date of export, reexport, or transfer (in-country). Items not returned shall be disposed of or retained in one of the following ways:


(i) *Permanent export, reexport, or transfer (in-country).* An exporter or reexporter who wants to sell or otherwise dispose of the items abroad, except as permitted by this or other applicable provision of the EAR, must apply for a license in accordance with §§ 748.1, 748.4 and 748.6 of the EAR. (Part 748 of the EAR contains more information about license applications.) The application must be supported by any documents that would be required in support of an application for export license for shipment of the same items directly from the United States to the proposed destination.


(ii) *Use of a license.* An outstanding license may also be used to dispose of items covered by the provisions of this paragraph (a), provided that the outstanding license authorizes direct shipment of the same items to the same new ultimate consignee or end-user.


(iii) *Authorization to retain item abroad beyond one year.* An exporter, reexporter or transferor who wants to retain an item at the temporary location beyond one year must apply for a license in accordance with §§ 748.1, 748.4 and 748.6 of the EAR to BIS at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the one-year period. The application must include the name and address of the exporter, the date the items were exported, a brief product description, and the justification for the extension. If BIS approves the extension, the applicant will receive authorization for an extension not to exceed four years from the date of initial export, reexport, or transfer. Any request for retaining the items abroad for a period exceeding four years must be made in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(14)(i) of this section.


(b) *Exports of items temporarily in the United States.* No provision of this paragraph (b), other than paragraph (b)(3), (4), or (5), may be used to export firearms controlled by ECCN 0A501.a, .b, 0A506, 0A507, or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in ECCN 0A502 or 0A508.






(1) *Items moving in transit through the United States.* Subject to the following conditions, the provisions of this paragraph (b)(1) authorize export of items moving in transit through the United States under a Transportation and Exportation (T.&E.) customs entry or an Immediate Exportation (I.E.) customs entry made at a U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office. 




(i) Items controlled for national security (NS) reasons, nuclear proliferation (NP) reasons, chemical and biological weapons (CB), or missile technology reasons (MT) reasons may not be exported to Country Group D:1, D:2, D:3, or D:4 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740), respectively, under this paragraph (b)(1).






(ii) Items may not be exported to Country Group E:1 under this section.


(iii) The following may *not* be exported from the United States under this paragraph (b)(1):


(A) Commodities shipped to the United States under an International Import Certificate, Form BIS-645P;


(B) Chemicals controlled under ECCN 1C350; or


(C) Horses for export by sea (refer to short supply controls in part 754 of the EAR).


(iv) The authorization to export in paragraph (b)(1) shall apply to all shipments from Canada moving in transit through the United States to any foreign destination, regardless of the nature of the commodities or software or their origin, notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (b)(1).


(2) *Items imported for marketing, or for display at U.S. exhibitions or trade fairs.* Subject to the following conditions, the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) authorize the export of items that were imported into the United States for marketing, or for display at an exhibition or trade fair *and* were either entered under bond or permitted temporary free import under bond providing for their export and are being exported in accordance with the terms of that bond.


(i) Items may be exported to the country from which imported into the United States. However, items originally imported from Cuba may not be exported unless the U.S. Government had licensed the import from that country.


(ii) Items may be exported to any destination other than the country from which imported except:


(A) Items imported into the United States under an International Import Certificate;


(B) Exports to Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740); or




(C) Exports to Country Groups D:1, D:2, D:3, or D:4 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740) of items controlled for national security (NS) reasons, nuclear nonproliferation (NP) reasons, chemical and biological weapons (CB) reasons, or missile technology (MT) reasons, respectively.






(3) *Return of foreign-origin items.* A foreign-origin item may be returned under this license exception to the country from which it was imported if its characteristics and capabilities have not been enhanced while in the United States, except that no foreign-origin items may be returned to Cuba.


(4) *Return of shipments refused entry.* Shipments of items refused entry by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Food and Drug Administration, or other U.S. Government agency may be returned to the country of origin, except to:


(i) A destination in Cuba; or


(ii) A destination from which the shipment has been refused entry because of the Foreign Assets Control Regulations of the Treasury Department, unless such return is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Treasury Department, Office of Foreign Assets Control (31 CFR parts 500-599).


(5) *Exports of firearms and certain shotguns temporarily in the United States.* This paragraph (b)(5) authorizes the export of no more than 75 firearms per shipment controlled by ECCN 0A501.a or .b, 0A506, 0A507, or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in ECCN 0A502 or 0A508 that are temporarily in the United States for a period not exceeding one year, provided that:


(i) The firearms were not shipped from or manufactured in a U.S. arms embargoed country, *i.e.,* destination listed in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to this part;


(ii) The firearms were not shipped from or manufactured in Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan, except for any firearm model controlled by 0A501, 0A506, or 0A507 that is specified under annex A in supplement no. 4 to this part; and


(iii) The firearms are not ultimately destined to a U.S. arms embargoed country, *i.e.,* destination listed in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to this part;


(iv) When the firearms entered the U.S. as a temporary import, the temporary importer or its agent:


(A) Provided the following statement to U.S. Customs and Border Protection: “This shipment will be exported in accordance with and under the authority of License Exception TMP (15 CFR 740.9(b)(5))”;


(B) Provided to U.S. Customs and Border Protection an invoice or other appropriate import-related documentation (or electronic equivalents) that includes a complete list and description of the firearms being temporarily imported, including their model, make, caliber, serial numbers, quantity, and U.S. dollar value; and


(C) Provided (if temporarily imported for a trade show, exhibition, demonstration, or testing) to U.S. Customs and Border Protection the relevant invitation or registration documentation for the event and an accompanying letter that details the arrangements to maintain effective control of the firearms while they are in the United States; and


(v) In addition to the export clearance requirements of part 758 of the EAR, the exporter or its agent must provide the import documentation related to paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(B) of this section to U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the time of export.




(c) *Exports of beta test software*—(1) *Scope.* The provisions of this paragraph (c) authorize exports and reexports to eligible countries of beta test software intended for distribution to the general public. 


(2) *Eligible countries.* Encryption software controlled under ECCN 5D002 is not eligible for export or reexport to a country in Country Group E:1 under the provisions of this paragraph (c). All other beta test software is eligible for export or reexport to all destinations, except Cuba and Iran under the provisions of this paragraph (c).


(3) *Eligible software.* All software that is controlled by the Commerce Control List (supplement no.1 to part 774 of the EAR), and under Commerce licensing jurisdiction, is eligible for export and reexport, subject to the restrictions of this paragraph (c). Encryption software controlled for “EI” reasons under ECCN 5D002 is eligible for export and reexport under this paragraph (c), provided that the exporter has submitted the information described in paragraph (c)(8) of this section by the time of export. Final encryption products produced by the testing consignee are subject to any applicable provisions in § 742.15(b) of the EAR (for mass market encryption commodities and software with symmetric key length exceeding 64-bits) or § 740.17 of the EAR (License Exception ENC), including review and reporting requirements. 


(4) *Conditions for use.* Exports or reexports of beta test software programs under the provisions of this paragraph (c) must meet all of the following conditions:


(i) The software producer intends to market the software to the general public after completion of the beta testing, as described in the General Software Note (see supplement no. 2 to part 774 of the EAR) or the Cryptography Note in Category 5, Part 2 (“Information Security”) of the Commerce Control List (see supplement no.1 to part 774 of the EAR); 


(ii) The software producer provides the software to the testing consignee free-of-charge or at a price that does not exceed the cost of reproduction and distribution; and 


(iii) The software is designed for installation by the end-user without further substantial support from the supplier. 


(5) *Importer Statement.* Prior to exporting or reexporting any eligible software under this paragraph (c), the exporter or reexporter must obtain the following statement from the testing consignee, which may be included in a contract, non-disclosure agreement, or other document that identifies the importer, the software to be exported, the country of destination, and the testing consignee.


(6) *Use limitations.* Only testing consignees that provide the importer statement required by paragraph (c)(5) of this section may execute any beta test software that was exported or reexported to them under the provisions of this paragraph (c). 


(7) *Return or disposal of software.* All beta test software exported must be destroyed abroad or returned to the exporter within 30 days of the end of the beta test period as defined by the software producer or, if the software producer does not define a test period, within 30 days of completion of the consignee's role in the test. Among other methods, this requirement may be satisfied by a software module that will destroy the software and all its copies at or before the end of the beta test period. 


(8) *Notification of beta test encryption software implementing “non-standard cryptography.”* For beta test encryption software eligible under this license exception that provides or performs “non-standard cryptography” as defined in part 772 of the EAR, by the time of export or reexport you must submit the information described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of supplement No. 6 to part 742 of the EAR by email to BIS at *crypt@bis.doc.gov* and to the ENC Encryption Request Coordinator at *enc@nsa.gov.*


---

[N] [61 FR 64277, Dec. 4, 1996. Redesignated at 61 FR 68579, Dec. 30, 1996]


