# § 63.524   Standards for wet strength resins manufacturers.

(a) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and except as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, owners or operators of existing affected WSR sources shall either:




(1) Limit the total emissions of hazardous air pollutants from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems to 10 pounds per 1 million pounds of wet strength resins produced; or


(2) Comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part to control emissions from equipment leaks.


(3) For each existing affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator shall comply with both paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section and must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) from each process vent that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.




(b) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, owners or operators of new or reconstructed affected WSR sources shall either:




(1) Limit the total emissions of hazardous air pollutants from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems to 7 pounds per 1 million pounds of wet strength resins produced; or


(2) Comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part to control emissions from equipment leaks. 


(3) For each new or reconstructed affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator shall comply with both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section and must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) from each process vent that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.




(c) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) When the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used in § 63.104, the term “existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(2) When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart, except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c) of this subpart” is used in the first sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3),” is used in the last sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source” shall apply for purposes of this subpart.


(3) When § 63.104 refers to table 4 of subpart F of this part or Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is required to consider all hazardous air pollutants.


(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 63.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1), the requirements in § 63.527(d) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.528(a), for the purposes of this subpart.


(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.521(c).


(7) Substitute “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c),” for each occurrence of “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),


(8) § 63.104(k) of subpart F of this part does not apply. Instead for each existing, new, or reconstructed affected WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), owners and operators must not inject water into (or dispose of water through) any heat exchange system in an affected source if the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.522.



---

[N] [60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43269, May 16, 2024]




