# § 5001.519   Bankruptcy.

(a) *Lender's responsibilities.* The lender is responsible for protecting the guaranteed loan and the collateral securing it in bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Taking actions that result in greater recoveries and avoiding actions that are likely not to be cost-effective;


(2) Monitoring confirmed bankruptcy plans to determine borrower compliance, and, if the borrower fails to comply, pursuing appropriate relief, including seeking a dismissal of the bankruptcy plan;


(3) Requesting modifications of any proposed bankruptcy plan whenever it appears that the lender could obtain additional recoveries via plan modification;


(4) Filing a proof of claim, when necessary, and all the necessary papers and pleadings concerning the case;


(5) Attending and, when necessary, participating in meetings of the creditors and all court proceedings;


(6) Immediately seeking adequate protection of the collateral if it is subject to being used by the trustee in bankruptcy or the debtor in possession;


(7) When appropriate, seeking involuntary conversion of a pending chapter 11 case to a liquidation proceeding or seeking dismissal of the proceedings;


(8) Submitting a default status report within 15 calendar days after the date when the borrower defaults and every 30 calendar days thereafter until the default is resolved or a final loss claim is paid by the Agency; and


(9) Informing the Agency within 10 working days upon notification of the filing of a bankruptcy case and keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed, in writing, of all aspects of the proceedings, at a minimum, on a bi-monthly basis.


(b) *Appraisals.* In a Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 reorganization, the lender must obtain an independent appraisal of the collateral if the Agency has determined that an independent appraisal is necessary. With written Agency consent, the lender and Agency will equally share the cost of any independent appraisal fee to protect the guaranteed loan in any bankruptcy proceedings.


(c) *Repurchase from the holder.* The Agency or the lender, with the approval of the Agency, can initiate the repurchase of the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan from the holder. If the lender is the holder, an estimated loss payment may be filed at the initiation of a Chapter 7 proceeding or after a Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 proceeding becomes a liquidation proceeding. Any loss payment on loans in bankruptcy must be approved by the Agency.


(d) *Reports of loss during bankruptcy.* In bankruptcy proceedings, the lender must use the report of loss form for reporting all estimated and final loss determinations. Payment of loss claims will be made as provided in this section.


(1) *Estimated loss payments.* (i) If a borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. The Agency will treat all subsequent claims of the lender during bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings as revisions to the initial estimated loss. At its option, the Agency may process a revised estimated loss payment in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once the bankruptcy plan has been satisfactorily completed, the lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest and to reimburse the lender for any court-ordered interest rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.


(ii) The lender must use the report of loss to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.


(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the lender must—


(A) Enter the data directly into the Agency's electronic system; and


(B) Provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained. Where the actual loss sustained is different than the estimated loss paid, the difference will be handled in accordance with § 5001.521(h).


(2) *Bankruptcy loss payments.* (i) The lender must request a bankruptcy loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court for all bankruptcies when all or a portion of the debt has been discharged. Unless a final court decree approves a subsequent change to the bankruptcy plan that is adverse to the lender, only one bankruptcy loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. Once a final court decree has discharged all or part of the guaranteed loan and any appeal period has run, the lender must submit the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the bankruptcy loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest.




(ii) The lender must use the report of loss to request a bankruptcy loss payment and to revise any bankruptcy loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy. The lender must include with the bankruptcy loss claim documentation to support the claim, as well as any revisions to this claim.


(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, restructure, or liquidation, the lender must enter the data directly into the Agency's electronic reporting system.


(iv) If an estimated loss claim is paid during a bankruptcy and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss will be filed to terminate the loan.


(3) *Interest losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization.* Interest losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization will be paid as described in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For guaranteed loans closed for which the Agency has not issued an interest termination letter—


(A) The loss of interest income sustained during the period of the bankruptcy plan will be processed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section;


(B) The loss of interest income sustained after the bankruptcy plan is confirmed will be processed annually when the lender sustains a loss as a result of a permanent interest rate reduction that extends beyond the period of the bankruptcy plan; and


(C) If an estimated loss claim is paid during the operation of the bankruptcy plan and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss will be filed to terminate the loan.


(ii) For guaranteed loans closed for which the Agency has issued an interest termination letter, the Agency will not compensate the lender for any difference in the interest rate specified in the loan note guarantee and the rate of interest specified in the bankruptcy plan.


(4) *Final bankruptcy loss payments.* The Agency will process final bankruptcy loss payments when the loan is fully liquidated.


(5) *Application of loss claim payments.* The lender must apply estimated loss payments first to the principal balance of the guaranteed portion of the debt and then to the interest of the guaranteed portion of the debt. In the event a court attempts to direct the payments to be applied in a different manner, the lender must immediately notify the Agency in writing.


(6) *Protective advances.* If approved protective advances, as authorized by § 5001.516, were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action and were required to protect the collateral as result of delays in the case or failure of the borrower to maintain the security prior to the borrower having filed bankruptcy, the protective advances together with accrued interest, as determined under § 5001.450(c) of this part, are payable under the guarantee in the final loss claim.


(e) *Liquidation expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.* (1) The liquidation expenses will be in compliance with § 5001.517(h).


(2) Reasonable and customary liquidation expenses in bankruptcy may be deducted from liquidation proceeds of collateral. In the case of Chapter 11 reorganizations or Chapters 11 or 7 liquidation, only expenses authorized by the court can be deducted from the collateral proceeds, unless the liquidation is by the lender.


(3) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the borrower by a bankruptcy trustee appointed under 11 U.S.C. 701, 702, 703, or 1104, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the lender cannot claim liquidation expenses for the sale of the assets.


(4) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee and any relief from the stay has been obtained, the lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with § 5001.517.


(5) Proceeds received from partial sale of collateral during bankruptcy can be used by the lender to pay reasonable costs (*e.g.,* freight, labor, and sales commissions) associated with the partial sale. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim request.


(6) Legal fees as a result of a bankruptcy are limited by the Agency to an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the current principal balance and are only recoverable from liquidation proceeds. Legal fees in excess of 3 percent of the current principal balance shall be borne by the lender and are not recoverable from liquidation proceeds or any loss claim by the lender.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]








