# § 522.1662   Oxytetracycline.

(a) For related tolerances see § 556.500 of this chapter.




(b)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) of solution contains 50 milligrams (mg) oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 069043 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg per pound of body weight (mg/lb) per day by intramuscular injection. Leptospirosis, severe foot-rot, and severe forms of the indicated diseases should be treated with 5 mg/lb per day. Treatment should be continued for 24 to 48 hours following remission of clinical signs of disease, not to exceed 4 consecutive days. Not more than 10 mL should be injected per injection site in adult cattle, and only 2 mL per injection site in calves weighing 100 pounds or less.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Beef cattle, beef calves, nonlactating dairy cattle, and dairy calves; for treatment of diseases due to oxytetracycline-susceptible organisms as follows: Pneumonia and shipping fever complex (*Pasteurella* spp*., Haemophilus* spp*., Klebsiella* spp.), bacterial enteritis (scours) (*Escherichia coli*), foot-rot (*Spherophorus necrophorus*), diphtheria (*Spherophorus necrophorus*), wooden tongue (*Actinobacillus lignieresii*), leptospirosis (*Leptospira pomona*), and wound infections and acute metritis caused by *Staphylococcus* spp. and *Streptococcus* spp.


(iii) *Limitations.* Discontinue treatment at least 20 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 




(c)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) of solution contains 50 or 100 milligrams (mg) oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 069043 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use*—(i) *Beef cattle and nonlactating dairy cattle*—(A) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg per pound of body weight (mg/lb) per day; 5 mg/lb per day for the treatment of anaplasmosis, severe foot-rot, and severe cases of other indicated diseases. For 50-mg/mL solution, administer intramuscularly or intravenously; for 100-mg/mL solution, administer intramuscularly only. Treatment should be continued for 24 to 48 hours following remission of clinical signs of disease, not to exceed 4 consecutive days.


(B) *Indications for use.* For treatment of diseases due to oxytetracycline-susceptible organisms as follows: Pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella* spp*., Haemophilus* spp*.,* and *Klebsiella* spp*.,* foot-rot and diphtheria caused by *Spherophorus necrophorus,* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli,* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii,* leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona,* anaplasmosis caused by *Anaplasma marginale;* and wound infections and acute metritis caused by *Staphylococcus* spp. and *Streptococcus* spp.


(C) *Limitations.* Exceeding the highest recommended dose of 5 mg/lb, administering at recommended levels for more than 4 consecutive days, and/or exceeding 10 mL intramuscularly per injection site may result in antibiotic residues beyond the withdrawal time. Discontinue treatment at least 18 days prior to slaughter. Not for use in lactating dairy cattle. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(ii) *Swine*—(A) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg/lb per day by intramuscular injection. Sows: Administer 3 mg/lb by intramuscular injection approximately 8 hours before farrowing or immediately after completion of farrowing.


(B) *Indications for use.* For treatment of bacterial enteritis (scours, colibacillosis) caused by *Escherichia coli,* pneumonia caused by *Pasteurella multocida,* and leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona.* Sows: as an aid in control of infectious enteritis (baby pig scours, colibacillosis) in suckling pigs caused by *Escherichia coli.*

(C) *Limitations.* Do not inject more than 5 mL per injection site. Do not use for more than 4 consecutive days. Discontinue treatment at least 26 days before slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(d)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 100 mg of oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use in beef cattle and nonlactating dairy cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg of oxytetracycline per pound of body weight per day by intramuscular injection, not to exceed a total of 4 consecutive days. Administer 5 mg/lb of body weight per day for treatment of anaplasmosis, severe foot-rot, or severe cases of other indicated diseases, not to exceed a total of 4 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of diseases due to oxytetracycline-susceptible organisms as follows: Pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella* spp. and *Haemophilus* spp., foot-rot and diphtheria caused by *Fusobacterium necrophorum,* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli,* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii,* leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona,* and wound infections and acute metritis caused by *Staphylococcus* spp. and *Streptococcus* spp. For treatment of anaplasmosis caused by *Anaplasma marginale* and anthrax caused by *Bacillus anthracis.*

(iii) *Limitations.* This drug product is not approved for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older, including dry dairy cows. Use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows. Discontinue treatment at least 15 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(e)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 50 mg of oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use in beef cattle and nonlactating dairy cattle.* It is used as follows:


(i) *Amount.* Administer by intravenous or intramuscular injection at 3 to 5 mg/lb of body weight per day, not exceed a total of 4 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella spp.* and *Haemophilus spp.;* foot-rot and diphtheria caused by *Spherophorus necrophorus;* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli;* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii;* leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona;* wound infections and acute metritis caused by staphylococcal and streptococcal organisms; and treatment of anaplasmosis caused by *Anaplasma marginale* and anthrax caused by *Bacillus anthracis.*

(iii) *Limitations.* This drug product is not approved for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older, including dry dairy cows. Use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows. Discontinue treatment at least 22 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(4) *Conditions of use in swine.* It is used in swine as follows:


(i) *Amount.* Administer by intramuscular injection at 3 to 5 mg/lb of body weight per day to swine, not to exceed a total of 4 consecutive days. Administered to sows at 3 mg/lb of body weight approximately 8 hours before farrowing or immediately after farrowing.


(ii) *Indications for use.* It is used for the treatment of bacterial enteritis (scours, colibacillosis) caused by *Escherichia coli;* pneumonia caused by *Pasteurella multocida;* and leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona.* Administered to sows as an aid in the control of infectious enteritis (baby pig scours, colibacillosis) in suckling pigs caused by *Escherichia coli.*

(iii) *Limitations.* Discontinue treatment at least 22 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(5) *Poultry (broilers, turkeys, and breeding chickens).* It is used as follows:


(i) *Amount.* Administer subcutaneously to chickens and turkeys according to age as directed on labeling.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of air sacculitis (air-sac disease, chronic respiratory disease) caused by *Mycoplasma gallisepticum* and *Escherichia coli;* fowl cholera caused by *Pasteurella multocida;* infectious sinusitis caused by *Mycoplasma gallisepticum;* and infectious synovitis caused by *Mycoplasma synoviae.*

(iii) *Limitations.* Do not administer to laying hens unless the eggs are used for hatching only. Discontinue treatment at least 5 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.






(f)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 100 mg of oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use in beef cattle and nonlactating dairy cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg of oxytetracycline per pound of body weight per day by intramuscular injection, not to exceed a total of 4 consecutive days. Administer 5 mg/lb of body weight per day for treatment of anaplasmosis, severe foot-rot, or severe cases of other indicated diseases, not to exceed a total of 4 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of diseases due to oxytetracycline-susceptible organisms as follows: Pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella* spp. and *Haemophilus* spp., foot-rot and diphtheria caused by *Fusobacterium necrophorum,* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli,* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii,* leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona,* and wound infections and acute metritis caused by *Staphylococcus* spp. and *Streptococcus* spp. For treatment of anaplasmosis caused by *Anaplasma marginale* and anthrax caused by *Bacillus anthracis.*

(iii) *Limitations.* This drug product is not approved for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older, including dry dairy cows. Use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows. Discontinue treatment at least 15 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.




(g)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) of solution contains 100 milligrams (mg) oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 069043 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use.* For the treatment of diseases due to oxytetracycline-susceptible organisms as follows:


(i) *Beef cattle, beef calves, nonlactating dairy cattle, and dairy calves*—(A) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg/lb body weight per day by intramuscular, intravenous, or subcutaneous injection. In severe forms of the indicated diseases, administer 5 mg/lb body weight per day. Continue treatment 24 to 48 hours following remission of clinical signs of disease, not to exceed 4 consecutive days.


(B) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella* spp., *Haemophilus* spp., or *Klebsiella* spp.


(C) *Limitations.* Do not inject more than 10 mL per intramuscular injection site in adult cattle, and no more than 1 mL per site in calves weighing 100 pounds or less. Do not slaughter cattle for 13 days after intramuscular or intravenous treatment, or 2 days after subcutaneous treatment. Exceeding the highest recommended dosage or duration of treatment (not more than 4 consecutive days) may result in residues beyond the withdrawal period. A withdrawal period has not been established for use of this product in preruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(ii) *Swine*—(A) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg/lb body weight per day by intramuscular injection. Sows: Administer 3 mg/lb body weight once, by intramuscular injection, approximately 8 hours before farrowing or immediately after completion of farrowing.


(B) *Indications for use.* For treatment of bacterial enteritis (scours, colibacillosis) caused by *Escherichia coli,* pneumonia caused by *Pasteurella multocida,* and leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona.* Sows: As an aid in control of infectious enteritis (baby pig scours, colibacillosis) in suckling pigs caused by *Escherichia coli.*

(C) *Limitations.* Do not inject more than 5 mL per site. Discontinue treatment at least 20 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.




(h)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) of solution contains 50 or 100 milligrams (mg) oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsors.* See No. 069043 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for use of 50- and 100-mg/mL solution and Nos. 016592 and 055529 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for use of 100-mg/mL solution.


(3) *Conditions of use in beef cattle, beef calves, nonlactating dairy cattle, and dairy calves*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg/lb body weight per day by intramuscular injection; 5 mg/lb body weight per day for treatment of severe forms of the indicated diseases.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of bacterial pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella* spp., foot-rot and calf diphtheria caused by *Fusobacterium necrophorum,* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli,* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii;* and wound infections and acute metritis caused by *Staphylococcus* spp. and *Streptococcus* spp.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not inject more than 10 mL per site in adult cattle. Reduce the volume administered per injection site according to age and body size. In calves weighing 100 pounds or less, do not inject more than 2 mL per site. Discontinue treatment at least 22 days before slaughter. Not for use in lactating dairy animals. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in preruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(i)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 50 milligrams (mg) of oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 016592 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use in beef cattle, beef calves, nonlactating dairy cattle, and dairy calves*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg/lb body weight per day by intramuscular injection not to exceed a total of 4 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of bacterial pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella spp.;* foot-rot and diphtheria caused by *Spherophorus necrophorus;* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli;* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii;* wound infections and acute metritis caused by staphylococcal and streptococcal organisms susceptible to oxytetracycline.


(iii) *Limitations.* This drug product is not approved for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older, including dry dairy cows. Use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows. Discontinue treatment at least 18 days before slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.




(j)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) of solution contains either 50 or 100 milligrams (mg) of oxytetracycline hydrochloride.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 061133 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use in beef cattle and nonlactating dairy cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 3 to 5 mg/lb body weight daily by intravenous injection. Administer 5 mg/lb for anaplasmosis, severe foot rot, and severe forms of other diseases. Treatment should be continued 24 to 48 hours following remission of clinical signs of disease, but not to exceed 4 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of diseases due to oxytetracycline-susceptible organisms as follows: Pneumonia and shipping fever complex associated with *Pasteurella* spp. and *Haemophilus* spp., foot rot and diphtheria caused by *Fusobacterium necrophorum,* bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by *Escherichia coli,* wooden tongue caused by *Actinobacillus lignieresii,* leptospirosis caused by *Leptospira pomona,* anaplasmosis caused by *Anaplasma marginale* and anthrax caused by *Bacillus anthracis;* and acute metritis and wound infections caused by staphylococcal and streptococcal organisms.


(iii) *Limitations.* Not for use in lactating dairy cattle. Discontinue use at least 19 days prior to slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [40 FR 13858, Mar. 27, 1975. Redesignated at 88 FR 14898, Mar. 10, 2023]


