# § 3550.162   Recapture.

(a) *Recapture policy.* Borrowers with loans approved or assumed on or after October 1, 1979, will be required to repay subsidy amounts received through payment subsidy (including the former interest credit program) or deferred mortgage assistance in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Amounts to be recaptured are due and payable when the borrower transfers title or ceases to occupy the property, including but not limited to, in the event of foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure. Such recapture will include the amount of principal reduction attributed to subsidy (for loans subject to recapture that were approved, and received interest credit, between October 1, 1979, and December 31, 1989), except in cases of foreclosure and deed in lieu of foreclosure.


(b) *Amount to be recaptured*—(1) *General.* The amount to be recaptured is determined by a calculation specified in the borrower's subsidy repayment agreement and is based on the borrower's equity in the property at the time of loan pay off. If there is no equity based on the recapture calculation, the amount of principal reduction attributed to subsidy is not collected. The recapture calculation includes the amount of principal reduction attributed to subsidy plus the lesser of:










(i) The amount of subsidy received; or


(ii) A portion of the value appreciation of the property subject to recapture. In order for the value appreciation to be calculated, the borrower will provide a current appraisal, including an appraisal for any capital improvements, or arm's length sales contract as evidence of market value upon Agency request. Appraisals must meet Agency standards under § 3550.62.




(2) *Foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the amount to be recaptured in a foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure is the amount of subsidy received, not including any principal reduction attributed to subsidy. Foreclosure actions will seek to recover such amounts only from the proceeds of the property. Liquidation proceeds (in the case of foreclosure) or the net recovery value (in the case of deed in lieu of foreclosure) will be applied or credited to the borrower's debt in accordance with the security agreement in the following order:


(i) Recoverable costs (e.g. protective advances, foreclosure costs, late charges).


(ii) Accrued interest.


(iii) Principal.


(iv) Subsidy.


(3) *Value appreciation.* The value appreciation of property with a cross-collateralized loan is based on the market value of the dwelling and lot. If located on a farm, the lot size would be a typical lot for a single family housing property.


(4) *Interest* reduced from the promissory note rate to six percent under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA) is not subject to recapture.


(c) *Deferral of recapture.* If the borrower refinances or otherwise pays in full without transfer of title and continues to occupy the property, the amount of recapture will be calculated in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section but payment of recapture may be deferred, interest free, until the property is sold or vacated. If the recapture amount is deferred, the Agency mortgage can be subordinated when in the Government's best interest but will not be released nor the promissory note satisfied until the Agency is paid in full. In situations where deferral of recapture is an option, recapture will be discounted if paid in full at the time of settlement or timely paid after Agency notification to the borrower that recapture is due.


(d) *Assumed loans.* (1) When a loan subject to recapture is assumed under new rates and terms, the recapture amount may be paid in full by the seller or included in the principal amount assumed by the buyer.


(2) When a loan is assumed under the same rates and terms as the original promissory note, recapture amounts will not be due. When the new borrower transfers title or ceases to occupy the property, all subsidy subject to recapture before and after the assumption is due.


(3) When a borrower has deferred payment of recapture amounts, the deferred recapture amount may be included in the principal amount of the new loan.



---

[N] [77 FR 3378, Jan. 24, 2012, as amended at 87 FR 6773, Feb. 7, 2022]




