# § 206.19   Payment options.

(a) *Term payment option.* Under the term payment option, equal monthly payments are made by the mortgagee to the borrower for a fixed term of months chosen by the borrower in accordance with this section and § 206.25(e), unless the mortgage is prepaid in full or becomes due and payable earlier under § 206.27(c).


(b) *Tenure payment option.* Under the tenure payment option, equal monthly payments are made by the mortgagee to the borrower in accordance with this section and with § 206.25(f), unless the mortgage is prepaid in full or becomes due and payable under § 206.27(c).


(c) *Line of credit payment option.* Under the line of credit payment option, payments are made by the mortgagee to the borrower at times and in amounts determined by the borrower as long as the amounts do not exceed the payment amounts permitted by § 206.25.


(d) *Modified term or modified tenure payment option.* Under the modified term or modified tenure payment options, equal monthly payments are made by the mortgagee and the mortgagee shall set aside a portion of the principal limit to be drawn down as a line of credit as long as the amounts do not exceed the payment amounts permitted by § 206.25.


(e) *Single Lump Sum payment option.* Under the Single Lump Sum payment option, the Borrower's Advance will be made by the mortgagee to the borrower in an amount that does not exceed the payment amount permitted in § 206.25. The Single Lump Sum payment option will be available only for fixed interest rate HECMs. Set asides requiring disbursements after close may be offered in accordance with paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.


(f) *Principal limit set asides*—(1) *Repair Set Aside.* When repairs required by § 206.47 will be completed after closing, the mortgagee shall set aside a portion of the principal limit equal to 150 percent of the Commissioner's estimated cost of repairs, plus the repair administration fee.


(2) *Property Charge Set Aside*—(i) *Life Expectancy Set Aside (LESA).* When required by § 206.205(b)(1) or selected by the borrower under § 206.205(b)(2)(i)(B), the mortgagee shall set aside a portion of the principal limit, consistent with the requirements of § 206.205, for payment of the following property charges: property taxes including special assessments levied by municipalities or state law, and flood and hazard insurance premiums.


(ii) *Borrower elects to have mortgagee pay property charges*—(A) *First year property charges.* When required by § 206.205(d), the mortgagee shall set aside a portion of the principal limit for payment of the following property charges that must be paid during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period: property taxes including special assessments levied by municipalities or state law, and flood and hazard insurance premiums. The mortgagee's estimate of withholding amount shall be based on the best information available as to probable payments which will be required to be made for property charges in the coming year. The mortgagee may not require the withholding of amounts in excess of the current estimated total annual requirement, unless expressly requested by the borrower. Each month's withholding for property charges shall equal one-twelfth of the annual amounts as reasonably estimated by the mortgagee.


(B) *Property charges for subsequent years.* For subsequent year property charges, the mortgagee's estimate of withholding amount shall be based on the best information available as to probable payments which will be required to be made for property charges in the coming year. If actual disbursements during the preceding year are used as the basis, the resulting estimate may deviate from those disbursements by as much as ten percent. The mortgagee may not require the withholding of amounts in excess of the current estimated total annual requirement, unless expressly requested by the borrower. Each month's withholding for property charges shall equal one-twelfth of the annual amounts as reasonably estimated by the mortgagee.


(3) *Servicing Fee Set Aside.* When servicing charges will be made as permitted by § 206.207(b), the mortgagee shall set aside a portion of the principal limit sufficient to cover charges through a period equal to the payment term which would be used to calculate tenure payments under § 206.25(f).


(g) *Interest accrual and repayment.* The interest charged on the outstanding loan balance shall begin to accrue from the funding date and shall be added to the outstanding loan balance monthly as provided in the mortgage. Under all payment options, repayment of the outstanding loan balance is deferred until the mortgage becomes due and payable under § 206.27(c).


(h) *Disbursement limits.* (1) For all HECMs, no disbursements shall be made under any of the payment options, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section or in § 206.25, in an amount which shall cause the outstanding loan balance after the payment to exceed any maximum mortgage amount stated in the security instruments or to otherwise exceed the amount secured by a first lien.


(2) For adjustable interest rate HECMs:


(i) No disbursements shall be made under any of the payment options during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period in excess of the Initial Disbursement Limit.


(ii) If the borrower makes a partial prepayment of the outstanding loan balance during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period, the mortgagee shall apply the funds from the partial prepayment in accordance with the Note.


(3) For fixed interest rate HECMs, if the borrower makes a partial prepayment of the outstanding loan balance any time after loan closing and before the contract of insurance is terminated, the mortgagee shall apply the funds from the partial prepayment in accordance with the Note. Any increase in the available principal limit by the amount applied towards the outstanding loan balance shall not be available for the borrower to draw against.




