# § 148.62   Declaration and entry of articles by crewmembers.

(a) *Declaration required.* Articles which are to be landed by a crewmember, including any person traveling on board a vessel, vehicle, or aircraft engaged in international traffic who is returning from a trip on which he was employed as a crewmember, shall be declared upon arrival of the vessel, vehicle, or aircraft in the United States. When practicable, the clearance of articles through Customs shall be made and permission to unlade obtained before the articles are taken from the carrier. However, if no danger to the revenue will result, articles may be submitted for examination and clearance to the Customs office on the pier or at the landing place. 


(b) *Form of declaration*—(1) *Oral declaration.* A crewmember may be permitted to make an oral declaration and entry if all articles he has to declare, in addition to articles for use in port on temporary leave for which no entry is required in accordance with § 148.63, may be admitted free of duty and tax under section 321(a)(2)(B), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(B)) (See § 148.64). 


(2) *Written declaration.* A written declaration on Customs Form 5129, Crewmember's Declaration shall be required in any case in which an oral declaration is not permitted. A written declaration may be required in any case if necessary to effect prompt and orderly clearance of crewmembers and their effects or if deemed necessary to protect the revenue. 


(c) *Transfer without declaration.* Articles belonging to a crewmember may be transferred from one carrier to another in international traffic without declaration, entry, or assessment of duty if the transfer is carried out under the supervision of Customs officers, or by a bonded cartman if necessary. 


(d) *Entry at port where articles to be landed.* Articles in the possession of or owned by a crewmember of a character for which entry must be made when they are brought into the United States shall be entered at the port where the articles are to be landed. However, if the crewmember remains on a vessel, vehicle, or aircraft which is to proceed to another port of the United States in a movement in which entry of the vessel, vehicle, or aircraft will not be required, entry of the articles shall be made at the port at which such movement begins. 


(e) *Collection of duty and taxes.* Any duties and taxes found due shall be collected as in the case of arriving passengers. 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13061, Mar. 29, 1978]




