# § 226.4   Nature of a smaller claims proceeding.

(a) *Proceeding before a Copyright Claims Officer.* Except as provided in § 222.13(e), a smaller claims proceeding shall be heard by not fewer than one Copyright Claims Officer (Officer). The Officers shall hear smaller claims proceedings on a rotating basis at the Board's discretion.






(b) *Initial scheduling order.* Upon confirmation that a proceeding has become active and the claimant has paid the second payment of the filing fee set forth in 37 CFR 201.3(g), and after completion of the 14-day period specified in the Board's order pursuant to § 222.7 of this subchapter, the Board shall issue an initial scheduling order that shall include the dates or deadlines for filing of a response to the claim and any counterclaims by the respondent and an initial conference with the Officer presiding over the proceeding. The Board or presiding Officer may issue additional scheduling orders or amend the scheduling order at its own discretion or upon request of a party pursuant to § 222.11(d) of this subchapter.


(c) *Initial conference*—(1) *In general.* An initial conference will take the place of the pre-discovery conference held in non-smaller claims proceedings. During the initial conference, the presiding Officer shall explain the steps of the proceeding, and the parties shall discuss the nature of the claims and any counterclaims and defenses as well as the possibility of settlement with the presiding Officer. While the presiding Officer in a smaller claims proceeding may discuss settlement with the parties, if a separate settlement conference is held, that settlement conference shall be held before an Officer who is not the presiding Officer.


(2) *Discovery.* During the initial conference, the presiding Officer shall discuss with the parties whether additional documents and information beyond any materials attached to the claim and response are necessary to reach a determination. Any order requiring documents or information to be produced shall be narrowly tailored to the merits of the proceeding and highly likely to lead to the production of information relevant to the core issues of the matter and not result in an undue burden on any party. If the presiding Officer determines that such documents and information are necessary, the presiding Officer shall order the parties to serve such documents and information on each other and set the date for such service to be accomplished.


(d) *Merits conference*—(1) *Timing of merits conference.* During or following the initial conference, the presiding Officer shall schedule a conference to further discuss the merits of the case.


(2) *Submission of materials before merits conference.* No later than 14 days before the merits conference, each party—


(i) Shall file with the presiding Officer evidence it wishes to be considered for the presiding Officer to decide the case as well as any evidence requested by the presiding Officer. All such evidence must have been served on the other parties to the proceeding before such filing, unless the evidence was received from the other side;


(ii) May submit a written statement that set forth its positions as to the claims, defenses, and any counterclaims, along with any damages sought and the types of damages sought. Such written statement shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(b) of this subchapter and shall be limited to seven pages. No written responses shall be permitted; and






(iii) May submit witness statements that comply with § 222.15(b)(2) of this subchapter. No later than seven days before the merits conference, an opposing party may request that the witness whose statement was submitted appear at the merits conference so that the party may ask the witness questions relating to the witness's testimony. The failure of a witness to appear in response to such a request shall not preclude the presiding Officer from accepting the statement, but the presiding Officer may take the inability to question the witness into account when considering the weight of the witness's testimony.






(3) *Failure to submit evidence.* If a party fails to submit evidence in accordance with the presiding Officer's request or submits evidence that was not served on the other parties or provided by the other side, the presiding Officer may discuss this with the parties during the merits conference or may schedule a separate conference to discuss the missing evidence with the parties. The presiding Officer shall determine an appropriate remedy, if any, including but not limited to drawing an adverse inference with respect to disputed facts, pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 1506(n)(3), if it would be in the interests of justice.




(4) *Conduct of merits conference.* During the merits conference, each party shall have an opportunity to address the materials submitted by any other party and to present their position on the claims, defenses, and any counterclaims, along with any damages sought, if any, to the presiding Officer. The presiding Officer may also ask questions to any party or any witness.


(e) *Proposed findings of fact.* Following the merits conference, the presiding Officer shall prepare proposed findings of fact and shall serve the proposed findings of fact on each party. The proposed findings of fact shall include any adverse inference that the presiding Officer is considering applying due to a failure to submit evidence pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Within 21 days from the date the proposed findings of fact are served—


(1) *Response to proposed findings of fact.* Any party may submit a written response to the proposed written findings of fact, including any adverse inferences identified by the presiding Officer. Such written response shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(b) and be limited to five pages. Such written responses may not reference or attach any evidence that was not previously filed, unless the presiding Officer grants leave to do so. If the presiding Officer grants leave to reference or attach additional evidence, the other parties shall be provided an opportunity to respond to the new evidence in writing or during a conference;


(2) *Statement as to damages.* To the extent the claimant or counterclaimant has not already made an election as to whether it is seeking actual damages or statutory damages, a claimant or counterclaimant seeking damages shall file a statement, which may be included in its response to the proposed findings of fact, as to whether the party is seeking statutory damages or actual damages and any profits. This election may be changed at any time up until a *final determination;* and


(3) *Statement as to voluntary agreement to stop or mitigate unlawful activities.* A respondent or counterclaim respondent may inform the presiding Officer, at any time up to and including the merits conference, that if found liable on a claim or counterclaim, it would voluntarily agree to an order to cease or mitigate the unlawful activity. Such an election may be considered in appropriate cases by the presiding Officer in determining an amount of damages, if any, pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 1504. Such information will not be considered by the presiding Officer in any way in making its determination as to liability, and shall be considered only as to damages.


(f) *Final determinations.* (1) After considering the information and arguments provided by the parties during the merits conferences and any other conferences ordered by the presiding Officer, along with any submissions filed by the parties, the presiding Officer shall issue a *final determination.*

(2) If, as described in § 227.1 of this subchapter, a respondent fails to appear or participate in a proceeding brought under the procedures set forth in this part, the presiding Officer shall transfer the proceedings to proceed under the rules governing default proceedings under part 227 of this subchapter, which may result in a *default determination* or dismissal of the claim. If proceedings continue under the rules governing default proceedings under part 227, any *default determination* must be issued by no fewer than two Officers. If the respondent cures a missed deadline or requirement, as described under § 227.1(c) of this subchapter, the proceeding shall resume under the procedures set forth in this part and the presiding Officer shall issue a revised scheduling order, if necessary.


(g) *Additional conferences.* In its discretion or upon the request of any party, the presiding Officer may hold additional conferences, including to manage the conduct of the proceeding, address disputes between the parties, and engage in further discussion of the claims, counterclaims, or defenses and supporting evidence. Requests for a conference and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter.


(h) *No expert testimony.* Parties may not submit expert testimony for consideration. Any expert testimony submitted shall be disregarded by the assigned Officer.



---

[N] [87 FR 30085, May 17, 2022; 87 FR 36061, June 15, 2022; 89 FR 2492, Jan. 16, 2024]




