# § 367.55   Land and land rights.

(a) The accounts for land and land rights must include the cost of land owned in fee by the service company and rights. Interests, and privileges held by the service company in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, water and water power rights, diversion rights, submersion rights, rights-of-way, and other like interests in land. Do not include in the accounts for land and land rights and rights-of-way costs incurred in connection with first clearing and grading of land and rights-of-way and the damage costs associated with the construction and installation of property. The costs must be included in the appropriate property accounts directly benefited.


(b) Where special assessments for public improvements provide for deferred payments, the full amount of the assessments must be charged to the appropriate land account and the unpaid balance must be carried in an appropriate liability account. Interest on unpaid balances must be charged to the appropriate interest account. If any part of the cost of public improvements is included in the general tax levy, the related amount must be charged to the appropriate tax account.


(c) The net profit from the sale of timber, cord wood, sand, gravel, other resources or other property acquired with the rights-of-way or other lands must be credited to the appropriate property account to which it is related. Where land is held for a considerable period of time and timber and other natural resources on the land at the time of purchase increases in value, the net profit (after giving effect to the cost of the natural resources) from the sales of timber or its products or other natural resources must be credited to the appropriate operating income account when the land has been recorded in account 101, Service company property (§ 367.1010), otherwise to account 421, Miscellaneous income or loss (§ 367.4210).


(d) Separate entries must be made for the acquisition, transfer, or retirement of each parcel of land, and each land right (except rights of way for distribution lines), or water right, having a life of more than one year. A record must be maintained showing the nature of ownership, full legal description, area, map reference, purpose for which used, city, county, and tax district on which situated, from whom purchased or to whom sold, payment given or received, other costs, contract date and number, date of recording of deed, and book and page of record. Entries transferring or retiring land or land rights must refer to the original entry recording its acquisition.


(e) Any difference between the amount received from the sale of land or land rights, less agents' commissions and other costs incident to the sale, and the book cost of such land or rights, must be included in account 421.1, Gain on disposition of property (§ 367.4211), or account 421.2, Loss on disposition of property (§ 367.4212), when the property has been recorded in account 101, Service company property (§ 367.1010). Appropriate adjustments of the accounts must be made with respect to any structures or improvements located on the land sold.


(f) The cost of buildings and other improvements (other than public improvements) must not be included in the land accounts. If, at the time of acquisition of an interest in land the interest extends to buildings or other improvements (other than public improvements) that are then devoted to operations, the land and improvements must be separately appraised and the cost allocated to land and buildings or improvements on the basis of the appraisals. If the improvements are removed or wrecked without being used in operations, the cost of removing or wrecking must be charged and the salvage credited to the account in which the cost of the land is recorded.


(g) Provisions must be made for amortizing amounts carried in the accounts for limited-term interests in land so as to apportion equitably the cost of each interest over the life thereof. (*See* account 111, Accumulated provision for amortization of service company property in § 367.1110, and account 404, Amortization of limited-term property in § 367.4040.)


(h) The items of cost to be included in the accounts for land and land rights are as follows:


(1) Bulkheads, buried, not requiring maintenance or replacement.


(2) Cost, first, of acquisition including mortgages and other liens assumed (but not the related subsequent interest).


(3) Condemnation proceedings, including court and counsel costs.


(4) Consents and abutting damages, payment for.


(5) Conveyancers' and notaries' fees.


(6) Fees, commissions, and salaries to brokers, agents and others in connection with the acquisition of the land or land rights.


(7) Leases, cost of voiding upon purchase to secure possession of land.


(8) Removing, relocating, or reconstructing, property of others, such as buildings, highways, railroads, bridges, cemeteries, churches, telephone and power lines, in order to acquire quiet possession.


(9) Retaining walls unless identified with structures.


(10) Special assessments levied by public authorities for public improvements on the basis of benefits for new roads, new bridges, new sewers, new curbing, new pavements, and other public improvements, but not taxes levied to provide for the maintenance of such improvements.


(11) Surveys in connection with the acquisition, but not amounts paid for topographical surveys and maps where the costs are attributable to structures or plant equipment erected or to be erected or installed on the land.


(12) Taxes assumed, accrued to date of transfer of title.


(13) Title, examining, clearing, insuring and registering in connection with the acquisition and defending against claims relating to the period prior to the acquisition.


(14) Appraisals prior to closing title.


(15) Cost of dealing with distributees or legatees residing outside of the state or county, such as recording power of attorney, recording will or exemplification of will, recording satisfaction of state tax.


(16) Filing satisfaction of mortgage.


(17) Documentary stamps.


(18) Photographs of property at acquisition.


(19) Fees and expenses incurred in the acquisition of water rights and grants.


(20) Cost of fill to extend bulkhead line over land under water, where riparian rights are held, which is not occasioned by the erection of a structure.


(21) Sidewalks and curbs constructed by the service company on public property.


(22) Labor and expenses in connection with securing rights of way, where performed by company employees and company agents.




