# ยง 754.102   Agency complaint process.

(a) *Complaint intake.* (1) Within 90 days of the effective date of this part, each agency must establish and publicize an accessible program for the agency to receive a complaint, or any other information, from an applicant, and any applicable supporting material, relating to the agency's compliance with section 9202 of title 5, United States Code and part 920 of this chapter, in accordance with the guidelines and standards established in this section and the issuances described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(2) An applicant may submit a complaint, or any other information, to an agency within 30 calendar days of the date of the alleged non-compliance by an employee of an agency with section 9202 of title 5, United States Code and part 920 of this chapter.


(3) The agency shall extend the 30-calendar-day time limit in paragraph (a)(2) of this section when the applicant shows that the applicant was not notified of the time limits and was not otherwise aware of them, that the applicant did not know and reasonably should not have known that the non-compliance with 5 U.S.C. 9202 and part 920 of this chapter occurred, to consider a reasonable accommodation of a disability, or for other proper and adequate reasons considered by the agency.


(4) The agency must conduct outreach to inform an applicant of the procedure for submitting a complaint when it has reasonable cause to believe that the applicant is attempting to file a complaint.


(b) *Agency investigation.* (1) Acting under delegated authority from OPM and subject to the limitations and requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, the agency employing the employee against whom the complaint has been filed shall investigate the complaint, unless the employee is an administrative law judge appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105. To carry out this function in an impartial manner, the same agency official(s) responsible for executing and advising on the recruitment action may not also be responsible for managing, advising, or overseeing the agency complaint process established in this section.


(2) In carrying out its delegated responsibilities under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the agency shall develop an impartial and appropriate factual record adequate for OPM to make findings on the claims raised by any written complaint. An appropriate factual record is one that allows a reasonable fact finder to draw conclusions as to whether non-compliance with 5 U.S.C. 9202 and part 920 of this chapter occurred. Agencies have discretion to determine the appropriate fact-finding methods that efficiently and thoroughly address the matters at issue.


(3) The agency must delegate to the investigator sufficient authority to secure the production, from agency employees and contractors, of documentary and testimonial evidence needed to investigate and report on the complaint.


(4) The applicant or applicant's representative must be given a reasonable time to respond to a request for documentary and testimonial evidence. This time period will not exceed 10 calendar days under ordinary circumstances. However, in the agency's discretion, an agency may grant an extension under extenuating circumstances.


(5) The agency shall complete its investigation within 60 calendar days of the date of the filing of the complaint. An agency may extend the investigation period when the agency has provided more than 10 calendar days for the applicant to respond to a request for documentary and testimonial evidence pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Notwithstanding an extension, the agency shall complete the investigation as expeditiously as possible.


(6) Within 30 calendar days of completing its investigation, the agency shall provide to OPM an administrative report. This report should include the applicant's complaint, or any other information submitted by the applicant, the agency's factual findings, a complete copy of all information gathered during the investigation, and any other information that the agency believes OPM should consider. The report should be submitted to the Manager, Employee Accountability, Accountability and Workforce Relations, Employee Services, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW, Room 7H28, Washington, DC 20415 or *employeeaccountability@opm.gov.*

(c) *OPM adjudication.* (1) At OPM's discretion, OPM may request the agency provide additional information as necessary.


(2) OPM shall notify the agency and the subject(s) of the complaint in writing of its assessment of the complaint, including any decision to initiate adverse action proceedings under subpart B of this part.


(d) *OPM oversight.* (1) OPM may revoke an agency's delegation under this section if an agency fails to conform to this section or OPM issuances as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(2) OPM retains jurisdiction to make final determinations and take actions regarding the receipt and investigation of complaints, or any other information; record-keeping; and reporting related to an allegation of non-compliance with 5 U.S.C. 9202 and part 920 of this chapter. Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section notwithstanding, OPM may, in its discretion, exercise its jurisdiction under this section in any case it deems necessary.


(3) OPM may set forth policies, procedures, standards, and supplementary guidance for the implementation of this section in OPM issuances.






