# § 627.3   Definitions.

The following terms used in this part are defined as follows:


(a) *Bridge project.* A bridge project shall include any project where the primary purpose is to construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, resurface, or restore a bridge.


(b) *Final design.* Any design activities following preliminary design and expressly includes the preparation of final construction plans and detailed specifications for the performance of construction work.


(c) *Project.* The term “project” means any undertaking eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code. The limits of a project are defined as the logical termini in the environmental document and may consist of several contracts, or phases of a project or contract, which may be implemented over several years.


(d) *Total project costs.* The estimated costs of all work to be conducted on a project including the environment, design, right-of-way, utilities and construction phases.


(e) *Value Engineering (VE) analysis.* The systematic process of reviewing and assessing a project by a multidisciplinary team not directly involved in the planning and development phases of a specific project that follows the VE Job Plan and is conducted to provide recommendations for:


(1) Providing the needed functions, considering community and environmental commitments, safety, reliability, efficiency, and overall life-cycle cost (as defined in 23 U.S.C. 106(f)(2));


(2) Optimizing the value and quality of the project; and


(3) Reducing the time to develop and deliver the project.


(f) *Value Engineering (VE) Job Plan.* A systematic and structured action plan for conducting and documenting the results of the VE analysis. While each VE analysis shall address each phase in the VE Job Plan, the level of analysis conducted and effort expended for each phase may be scaled to meet the needs of each individual project. The VE Job Plan shall include and document the following seven phases:


(1) Information Phase: Gather project information including project commitments and constraints.


(2) Function Analysis Phase: Analyze the project to understand the required functions.


(3) Creative Phase: Generate ideas on ways to accomplish the required functions which improve the project's performance, enhance its quality, and lower project costs.


(4) Evaluation Phase: Evaluate and select feasible ideas for development.


(5) Development Phase: Develop the selected alternatives into fully supported recommendations.


(6) Presentation Phase: Present the VE recommendation to the project stakeholders.


(7) Resolution Phase: Evaluate, resolve, document and implement all approved recommendations.


(g) *Value Engineering Change Proposal (VECP).* A construction contract change proposal submitted by the construction contractor based on a VECP provision in the contract. These proposals may improve the project's performance, value and/or quality, lower construction costs, or shorten the delivery time, while considering their impacts on the project's overall life-cycle cost and other applicable factors.




