# § 155.1050   Establishment of Exchange network adequacy standards.

(a) Except with regard to multi-State plans:


(1) A federally facilitated Exchange must ensure that the provider network of each QHP meets the standards specified in § 156.230 of this subtitle.


(2) State Exchanges and State-based Exchanges on the Federal Platform must ensure that the provider network of each QHP meets applicable standards specified in § 156.230(a)(1)(ii), (a)(1)(iii), and (a)(4) of this sub*chapter.*

(i) For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, to comply with the requirement under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, State Exchanges and State-based Exchanges on the Federal platform must:


(A) Establish and impose network adequacy time and distance standards for QHPs that are at least as stringent as standards for QHPs participating on the Federally-facilitated Exchanges under § 156.230(a)(2)(i)(A) of this subchapter;


(B) Conduct, prior to QHP certification, quantitative network adequacy reviews to evaluate compliance with requirements under § 156.230(a)(1)(ii), (a)(1)(iii), and (a)(2)(i)(A) of this subchapter, while providing QHP certification applicants the flexibilities described under § 156.230(a)(2)(ii) and (a)(3) and (4); and


(C) Require that all issuers seeking certification of a plan as a QHP submit information to the Exchange reporting whether or not network providers offer telehealth services.


(ii) For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, HHS may grant an exception to the requirements described under paragraphs (a)(2)(i) of this section to a State Exchange or State-based Exchange on the Federal platform that demonstrates with evidence-based data, in a form and manner specified by HHS, that:


(A) the Exchange applies and enforces alternate quantitative network adequacy standards that are reasonably calculated to ensure a level of access to providers that is as great as that ensured by the Federal network adequacy standards established for QHPs under § 156.230(a)(1)(iii), (a)(2)(i)(A), and (a)(4) of this subchapter; and


(B) the Exchange evaluates whether plans comply with applicable network adequacy standards prior to certifying any plan as a QHP.




(b) The U.S. Office of Personnel Management will ensure compliance with the standards specified in § 156.230 of this subtitle for multi-State plans.


(c) A QHP issuer in an Exchange may not be prohibited from contracting with any essential community provider designated under § 156.235(c) of this subtitle.



---

[N] [77 FR 18467, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 26423, Apr. 15, 2024]




