# ยง 44.21   Filing and form of documents.

(a) *Where to file.* After a petition has been referred to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge, the parties will be notified of the name and address of the administrative law judge assigned to the case. All further documents shall be filed with the administrative law judge at the address designated or with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, if the assignment has not been made. While the petition is before the Assistant Secretary at any stage of the proceeding, all documents should be filed with the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452.


(b) *Caption, title and signature.* (1) The documents filed in any proceeding under this part shall be captioned in the name of the operator of the mine to which the proceeding relates and in the name of the mine or mines affected. After a docket number has been assigned to the proceeding by the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge, the caption shall contain such docket number.


(2) After the caption each such document shall contain a title which shall be descriptive of the document and which shall identify the party by whom the document is submitted.


(3) The original of all documents filed shall be signed at the end by the party submitting the document or, if the party is represented by an attorney, by such attorney. The address of the party or the attorney shall appear beneath the signature.



---

[N] [43 FR 29518, July 7, 1978, as amended at 67 FR 38384, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52985, Sept. 2, 2015]




