# § 216.115   Accounting and identification of gray whales.

(a) *Images and samples.* NMFS hunt observers, Tribal hunt observers, and members of the Makah Indian Tribe may collect still or motion pictures as needed to document hunting and training approaches, strikes (successful and unsuccessful attempts), and landings. Persons designated by NMFS and by the Makah Indian Tribe may also collect, store, transfer, and analyze specimen samples from struck gray whales. Such designated personnel should make every reasonable attempt to collect genetic samples from struck whales without compromising the safety of the hunt.


(b) *Identification and accounting of gray whales*—(1) *Winter/spring hunts.* Based on the best available evidence, the Regional Administrator will determine in writing whether a gray whale that is struck in a winter/spring hunt is a WNP gray whale or a PCFG whale or neither, or cannot be identified due to a lack of photographs or genetic data useful for making identifications. A whale affirmatively identified as a PCFG whale will be counted accordingly. A whale that cannot be identified will be presumed to be a PCFG whale in accordance with the proportions specified in § 216.114(d)(2) and will be counted accordingly. If the sex of a whale that is counted, in whole or in part, as a PCFG whale cannot be identified, the proportions specified in § 216.114(d)(2) will be applied.


(2) *Summer/fall hunts.* Based on available evidence, the Regional Administrator will determine in writing whether a gray whale that is struck in a summer/fall hunt is a WNP gray whale or cannot be identified due to a lack of photographs or genetic data useful for making identifications. A gray whale that cannot be identified as a WNP gray whale will be counted as a PCFG whale. If the sex of a whale that is counted as a PCFG whale cannot be identified, the proportions specified in § 216.114(d)(2) will be applied.


(3) *Hunting and training approaches.* Gray whales subjected to hunting or training approaches are presumed to be PCFG whales in accordance with the proportions specified in § 216.114(d)(2).


(4) *Unauthorized strikes.* If a Tribal member strikes an ENP gray whale without authorization under this subpart, the strike will be counted against the total number of strikes allowed under this subpart and will be counted against the United States' share of any applicable catch limit established by the International Whaling Commission.






