# § 63.104   Heat exchange system requirements.

(a) Unless one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) or paragraph (l) of this section are met, owners and operators of sources subject to this subpart shall monitor each heat exchange system used to cool process equipment in a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (3), except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c), according to the provisions in either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, and if applicable, paragraph (g) of this section. Whenever a leak is detected, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section, and if applicable, paragraphs (h) through (j) of this section. Owners and operators of heat exchange systems in a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (3) must also comply with paragraph (k) of this section.


(1) The heat exchange system is operated with the minimum pressure on the cooling water side at least 35 kilopascals greater than the maximum pressure on the process side.


(2) There is an intervening cooling fluid, containing less than 5 percent by weight of total hazardous air pollutants listed in table 4 of this subpart, between the process and the cooling water. This intervening fluid serves to isolate the cooling water from the process fluid and the intervening fluid is not sent through a cooling tower or discharged. For purposes of this section, discharge does not include emptying for maintenance purposes.


(3) The once-through heat exchange system is subject to a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit with an allowable discharge limit of 1 part per million or less above influent concentration or 10 percent or less above influent concentration, whichever is greater. For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), this paragraph (a)(3) no longer applies.


(4) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(v) of this section, the once-through heat exchange system is subject to an NPDES permit that:


(i) Requires monitoring of a parameter(s) or condition(s) to detect a leak of process fluids into cooling water;


(ii) Specifies or includes the normal range of the parameter or condition;


(iii) Requires monitoring for the parameters selected as leak indicators no less frequently than monthly for the first six months and quarterly thereafter; and


(iv) Requires the owner or operator to report and correct leaks to the cooling water when the parameter or condition exceeds the normal range.


(v) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), this paragraph (a)(4) no longer applies.

 




(b) The owner or operator who elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by monitoring the cooling water for the presence of one or more organic hazardous air pollutants or other representative substances whose presence in cooling water indicates a leak shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. The cooling water shall be monitored for total hazardous air pollutants, total volatile organic compounds, total organic carbon, one or more speciated HAP compounds, or other representative substances that would indicate the presence of a leak in the heat exchange system.


(1) The cooling water shall be monitored monthly for the first 6 months and quarterly thereafter to detect leaks.


(2)(i) For recirculating heat exchange systems (cooling tower systems), the monitoring of speciated hazardous air pollutants or total hazardous air pollutants refers to the hazardous air pollutants listed in table 4 of this subpart.


(ii) For once-through heat exchange systems, the monitoring of speciated hazardous air pollutants or total hazardous air pollutants refers to the hazardous air pollutants listed in table 9 of subpart G of this part.


(3) The concentration of the monitored substance(s) in the cooling water shall be determined using any EPA-approved method listed in part 136 of this chapter as long as the method is sensitive to concentrations as low as 10 parts per million and the same method is used for both entrance and exit samples. Alternative methods may be used upon approval by the Administrator.


(4) The samples shall be collected either at the entrance and exit of each heat exchange system or at locations where the cooling water enters and exits each heat exchanger or any combination of heat exchangers.


(i) For samples taken at the entrance and exit of recirculating heat exchange systems, the entrance is the point at which the cooling water leaves the cooling tower prior to being returned to the process equipment and the exit is the point at which the cooling water is introduced to the cooling tower after being used to cool the process fluid.


(ii) For samples taken at the entrance and exit of once-through heat exchange systems, the entrance is the point at which the cooling water enters and the exit is the point at which the cooling water exits the plant site or chemical manufacturing process units.


(iii) For samples taken at the entrance and exit of each heat exchanger or any combination of heat exchangers in chemical manufacturing process units, the entrance is the point at which the cooling water enters the individual heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers and the exit is the point at which the cooling water exits the heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers.


(5) A minimum of three sets of samples shall be taken at each entrance and exit as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The average entrance and exit concentrations shall then be calculated. The concentration shall be corrected for the addition of any makeup water or for any evaporative losses, as applicable.


(6) A leak is detected if the exit mean concentration is found to be greater than the entrance mean using a one-sided statistical procedure at the 0.05 level of significance and the amount by which it is greater is at least 1 part per million or 10 percent of the entrance mean, whichever is greater.


(c) The owner or operator who elects to comply with the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section by monitoring using a surrogate indicator of heat exchange system leaks shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section. Surrogate indicators that could be used to develop an acceptable monitoring program are ion specific electrode monitoring, pH, conductivity or other representative indicators.


(1) The owner or operator shall prepare and implement a monitoring plan that documents the procedures that will be used to detect leaks of process fluids into cooling water. The plan shall require monitoring of one or more surrogate indicators or monitoring of one or more process parameters or other conditions that indicate a leak. Monitoring that is already being conducted for other purposes may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section. The plan shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) A description of the parameter or condition to be monitored and an explanation of how the selected parameter or condition will reliably indicate the presence of a leak.


(ii) The parameter level(s) or conditions(s) that shall constitute a leak. This shall be documented by data or calculations showing that the selected levels or conditions will reliably identify leaks. The monitoring must be sufficiently sensitive to determine the range of parameter levels or conditions when the system is not leaking. When the selected parameter level or condition is outside that range, a leak is indicated.


(iii) The monitoring frequency which shall be no less frequent than monthly for the first 6 months and quarterly thereafter to detect leaks.


(iv) The records that will be maintained to document compliance with the requirements of this section.


(2) If a substantial leak is identified by methods other than those described in the monitoring plan and the method(s) specified in the plan could not detect the leak, the owner or operator shall revise the plan and document the basis for the changes. The owner or operator shall complete the revisions to the plan no later than 180 days after discovery of the leak.


(3) The owner or operator shall maintain, at all times, the monitoring plan that is currently in use. The current plan shall be maintained on-site, or shall be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. If the monitoring plan is superseded, the owner or operator shall retain the most recent superseded plan at least until 5 years from the date of its creation. The superseded plan shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within two hours after a request) for at least 6 months after its creation.


(d) If a leak is detected according to the criteria of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) The leak shall be repaired as soon as practical but not later than 45 calendar days after the owner or operator receives results of monitoring tests indicating a leak. The leak shall be repaired unless the owner or operator demonstrates that the results are due to a condition other than a leak.


(2) Once the leak has been repaired, the owner or operator shall confirm that the heat exchange system has been repaired within 7 calendar days of the repair or startup, whichever is later.


(e) Delay of repair of heat exchange systems for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the equipment is isolated from the process. Delay of repair is also allowed if repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown and any one of the conditions in paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section is met. All time periods in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section shall be determined from the date when the owner or operator determines that delay of repair is necessary.


(1) If a shutdown is expected within the next 2 months, a special shutdown before that planned shutdown is not required.


(2) If a shutdown is not expected within the next 2 months, the owner or operator may delay repair as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii) of this section. Documentation of a decision to delay repair shall state the reasons repair was delayed and shall specify a schedule for completing the repair as soon as practical.


(i) If a shutdown for repair would cause greater emissions than the potential emissions from delaying repair, the owner or operator may delay repair until the next shutdown of the process equipment associated with the leaking heat exchanger. The owner or operator shall document the basis for the determination that a shutdown for repair would cause greater emissions than the emissions likely to result from delaying repair as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator shall calculate the potential emissions from the leaking heat exchanger by multiplying the concentration of total hazardous air pollutants listed in table 4 of this subpart in the cooling water from the leaking heat exchanger by the flowrate of the cooling water from the leaking heat exchanger by the expected duration of the delay. The owner or operator may calculate potential emissions using total organic carbon concentration instead of total hazardous air pollutants listed in table 4 of this subpart.


(B) The owner or operator shall determine emissions from purging and depressurizing the equipment that will result from the unscheduled shutdown for the repair.


(ii) If repair is delayed for reasons other than those specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the owner or operator may delay repair up to a maximum of 120 calendar days. The owner shall demonstrate that the necessary parts or personnel were not available.


(f)(1) *Required records.* The owner or operator shall retain the records identified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, and if applicable, paragraph (f)(3) of this section, as specified in § 63.103(c)(1).


(i) Monitoring data required by this section indicating a leak and the date when the leak was detected, and if demonstrated not to be a leak, the basis for that determination;


(ii) Records of any leaks detected by procedures subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the date the leak was discovered;


(iii) The dates of efforts to repair leaks; and


(iv) The method or procedure used to confirm repair of a leak and the date repair was confirmed.


(2) *Reports.* If an owner or operator invokes the delay of repair provisions for a heat exchange system, the following information shall be submitted in the next semi-annual periodic report required by § 63.152(c). If the leak remains unrepaired, the information shall also be submitted in each subsequent periodic report, until repair of the leak is reported. In addition, if an owner or operator is complying with paragraph (g) or (l) of this section, then the semi-annual periodic report must include the information specified in paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall report the presence of the leak by identifying the heat exchange system and the date that the leak was detected.


(ii) The owner or operator shall report whether or not the leak has been repaired.


(iii) The owner or operator shall report the reason(s) for delay of repair. If delay of repair is invoked due to the reasons described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, documentation of emissions estimates must also be submitted.


(iv) If the leak remains unrepaired, the owner or operator shall report the expected date of repair.


(v) If the leak is repaired, the owner or operator shall report the date the leak was successfully repaired.


(vi) For each heat exchange system subject to paragraph (g) or (l) of this section, the following information must be submitted in each semi-annual periodic report required by § 63.152(c).


(A) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (g) or (l) of this section during the reporting period.


(B) The number of heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (g) or (l) of this section at the plant site found to be leaking during the reporting period.


(C) For each monitoring location where a leak was identified during the reporting period, identification of the monitoring location (*e.g.,* unique monitoring location or heat exchange system ID number), the measured total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (in ppmv as methane) or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (in kg/hr as methane) (if complying with paragraph (g) of this section) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (in ppmv) (if complying with paragraph (l) of this section), the date the leak was first identified, and, if applicable, the date the source of the leak was identified;


(D) For leaks that were repaired during the reporting period (including delayed repairs), identification of the monitoring location associated with the repaired leak, the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with paragraph (g) of this section) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with paragraph (l) of this section) measured during re-monitoring to verify repair, and the re-monitoring date (*i.e.,* the effective date of repair); and


(E) For each delayed repair, identification of the monitoring location associated with the leak for which repair is delayed, the date when the delay of repair began, the date the repair was completed or is expected to be completed (if the leak is not repaired during the reporting period), the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with paragraph (g) of this section) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with paragraph (l) of this section) and date of each monitoring event conducted on the delayed repair during the reporting period, and an estimate in pounds of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions over the reporting period associated with the delayed repair.


(3) *Additional records.* For each heat exchange system subject to paragraph (g) or (l) of this section, owners and operators must also keep records in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Monitoring data required by paragraph (g) or (l) of this section that indicate a leak, the date the leak was detected, or, if applicable, the basis for determining there is no leak.


(ii) The dates of efforts to repair leaks.


(iii) The method or procedures used to confirm repair of a leak and the date the repair was confirmed.


(iv) Documentation of delay of repair as specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(iv)(A) through (f)(3)(iv)(D) of this section.


(A) The reason(s) for delaying repair.


(B) A schedule for completing the repair as soon as practical.


(C) The date and concentration or mass emissions rate of the leak as first identified and the results of all subsequent monitoring events during the delay of repair.


(D) An estimate of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions (if monitoring the cooling water for leaks according to paragraph (g)(1) of this section) or monitored substance(s) emissions (if monitoring the cooling water for leaks according to paragraph (l) of this section) from the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for each required delay of repair monitoring interval following the procedures in paragraphs (f)(3)(iv)(D)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(*1*) If an owner or operator complies with the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration leak action level, as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, then the owner or operator must calculate the mass emissions rate by complying with the requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section or by determining the mass flow rate of the cooling water at the monitoring location where the leak was detected. If the monitoring location is an individual cooling tower riser, determine the total cooling water mass flow rate to the cooling tower. Cooling water mass flow rates may be determined using direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations, or other engineering methods. If an owner or operator determines the mass flow rate of the cooling water, calculate the mass emissions rate by converting the stripping gas leak concentration (in ppmv as methane) to an equivalent liquid concentration, in parts per million by weight (ppmw), using equation 7-1 from “Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) and multiply the equivalent liquid concentration by the mass flow rate of the cooling water.


(*2*) For delay of repair monitoring intervals prior to repair of the leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the monitoring interval by multiplying the mass emissions rate, determined in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) or (f)(3)(iv)(D)(*1*) or (*4*) of this section, by the duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval. The duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight on the day of the previous monitoring event or at midnight on the day the repair would have had to be completed if the repair had not been delayed, whichever is later, and ending at midnight of the day the of the current monitoring event.


(*3*) For delay of repair monitoring intervals ending with a repaired leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the final delay of repair monitoring interval by multiplying the duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval by the mass emissions rate determined for the last monitoring event prior to the re-monitoring event used to verify the leak was repaired. The duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight of the day of the last monitoring event prior to re-monitoring to verify the leak was repaired and ending at the time of the re-monitoring event that verified that the leak was repaired.


(*4*) If an owner or operator monitors the cooling water for leaks according to paragraph (l) of this section, then the owner or operator must calculate the mass emissions rate by determining the mass flow rate of the cooling water at the monitoring location where the leak was detected. Cooling water mass flow rates may be determined using direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations, or other engineering methods. Once determined, multiply the mass flow rate of the cooling water by the concentration of the measured substance(s).


(g) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), owners and operators must monitor the cooling water for the presence of total strippable hydrocarbons that indicate a leak according to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and if an owner or operator detects a leak pursuant to the procedures in this paragraph, then the owner or operator must repair it according to paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, unless repair is delayed according to paragraph (j) of this section. The requirements in this paragraph do not apply to heat exchange systems that have a maximum cooling water flow rate of 10 gallons per minute or less.


(1) For each recirculating heat exchange system subject to the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section, owners and operators must collect and analyze a sample from the location(s) described in either paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Each cooling tower return line or any representative riser within the cooling tower prior to exposure to air for each heat exchange system.


(ii) Selected heat exchanger exit line(s), so that each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers within a heat exchange system is covered by the selected monitoring location(s).


(2) For each once-through heat exchange system, owners and operators must collect and analyze a sample from the location(s) described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section. The owner or operator may also elect to collect and analyze an additional sample from the location(s) described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) Selected heat exchanger exit line(s), so that each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers within a heat exchange system is covered by the selected monitoring location(s). The selected monitoring location may be at a point where discharges from multiple heat exchange systems are combined provided that the combined cooling water flow rate at the monitoring location does not exceed 40,000 gallons per minute.


(ii) The inlet water feed line for a once-through heat exchange system prior to any heat exchanger. If multiple heat exchange systems use the same water feed (*i.e.,* inlet water from the same primary water source), the owner or operator may monitor at one representative location and use the monitoring results for that sampling location for all heat exchange systems that use that same water feed.


(3) If an owner or operator complies with the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration leak action level as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. If an owner or operator complies with the total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate leak action level as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Owners and operators must determine the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (in parts per million by volume (ppmv) as methane) at each monitoring location using the “Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) using a flame ionization detector (FID) analyzer for on-site determination as described in Section 6.1 of the Modified El Paso Method.


(ii) Owners and operators must convert the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (in ppmv as methane) to a total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (as methane) using the calculations in Section 7.0 of “Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14).


(4) Except as specified in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, for each heat exchange system, owners and operators must initially monitor monthly for 6-months beginning upon startup and monitor quarterly thereafter using a leak action level defined as a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 6.2 ppmv or, for heat exchange systems with a recirculation rate of 10,000 gallons per minute or less, the owner or operator may monitor quarterly using a leak action level defined as a total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate from the heat exchange system (as methane) of 0.18 kg/hr. If a leak is detected as specified in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, then owners and operators must monitor monthly until the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in paragraph (h) or (i) of this section. Once the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in paragraph (h) or (i) of this section, quarterly monitoring for the heat exchange system may resume. The monitoring frequencies specified in this paragraph also apply to the inlet water feed line for a once-through heat exchange system, if monitoring of the inlet water feed is elected as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.


(5) A leak is defined as described in paragraph (g)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For once-through heat exchange systems for which the inlet water feed is monitored as described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected if the difference in the measurement value of the sample taken from a location specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and the measurement value of the corresponding sample taken from the location specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section equals or exceeds the leak action level.


(ii) For all other heat exchange systems, a leak is detected if a measurement value of the sample taken from a location specified in paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) or (g)(2)(i) of this section equals or exceeds the leak action level.


(6) For heat exchange systems in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101, the monitoring frequency is weekly.


(h) If a leak is detected using the methods described in paragraph (g) of this section, owners and operators must repair the leak to reduce the concentration or mass emissions rate to below the applicable leak action level as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after identifying the leak, except as specified in paragraph (h)(6) or (j) of this section. Repair must include re-monitoring at the monitoring location where the leak was identified according to the method specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section to verify that the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate is below the applicable leak action level. Repair may also include performing the additional monitoring in paragraph (i) of this section to verify that the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate is below the applicable leak action level. Actions that can be taken to achieve repair include but are not limited to:


(1) Physical modifications to the leaking heat exchanger, such as welding the leak or replacing a tube;


(2) Blocking the leaking tube within the heat exchanger;


(3) Changing the pressure so that water flows into the process fluid;


(4) Replacing the heat exchanger or heat exchanger bundle; or


(5) Isolating, bypassing, or otherwise removing the leaking heat exchanger from service until it is otherwise repaired.


(6) For heat exchange systems in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101, paragraph (j) of this section does not apply, and owners and operators must repair the leak to reduce the concentration or mass emissions rate to below the applicable leak action level as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 days after the sample was collected. Delay of repair of heat exchange systems in ethylene oxide service for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the equipment is isolated from the process such that it is no longer in ethylene oxide service.


(i) If an owner or operator detects a leak when monitoring a cooling tower return line under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, then the owner or operator may conduct additional monitoring of each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers associated with the heat exchange system for which the leak was detected, as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section. If no leaks are detected when monitoring according to the requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, the heat exchange system is considered to have met the repair requirements through re-monitoring of the heat exchange system, as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.


(j) Owners and operators may delay repair when one of the conditions in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section is met and the leak is less than the delay of repair action level specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section. Owners and operators must determine if a delay of repair is necessary as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after first identifying the leak.


(1) If the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown and the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate is initially and remains less than the delay of repair action level for all monitoring periods during the delay of repair, then the owner or operator may delay repair until the next scheduled shutdown of the heat exchange system. If, during subsequent monitoring, the delay of repair action level is exceeded, then owners and operators must repair the leak within 30 days of the monitoring event in which the leak was equal to or exceeded the delay of repair action level.


(2) If the necessary equipment, parts, or personnel are not available and the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate is initially and remains less than the delay of repair action level for all monitoring periods during the delay of repair, then the owner or operator may delay the repair for a maximum of 120 calendar days. Owners and operators must demonstrate that the necessary equipment, parts, or personnel were not available. If, during subsequent monitoring, the delay of repair action level is exceeded, then owners and operators must repair the leak within 30 days of the monitoring event in which the leak was equal to or exceeded the delay of repair action level.


(3) The delay of repair action level is a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 62 ppmv or, for heat exchange systems with a recirculation rate of 10,000 gallons per minute or less, the delay of repair action level is a total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (as methane) of 1.8 kg/hr. The delay of repair action level is assessed as described in paragraph (j)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For once-through heat exchange systems for which the inlet water feed is monitored as described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, the delay of repair action level is exceeded if the difference in the measurement value of the sample taken from a location specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and the measurement value of the corresponding sample taken from the location specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section equals or exceeds the delay of repair action level.


(ii) For all other heat exchange systems, the delay of repair action level is exceeded if a measurement value of the sample taken from a location specified in paragraph (g)(1)(i), (1)(ii), or (2)(i) of this section equals or exceeds the delay of repair action level.


(k) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11), owners and operators must not inject water into or dispose of water through any heat exchange system in a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (3) if the water contains any amount of ethylene oxide, has been in contact with any process stream containing ethylene oxide, or the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.101.


(l) If 99 percent by weight or more of the organic compounds that could leak into the heat exchange system are water soluble and have a Henry's Law Constant less than 5.0E-6 atmospheres-cubic meters/mol at 25 degrees Celsius, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), owners and operators may monitor the cooling water for leaks according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section in lieu of using the Modified El Paso Method. If an owner or operator detects a leak according to paragraph (b) of this section, then the owner or operator must repair it according to paragraph (l)(1) of this section, unless repair is delayed according to paragraph (l)(2) of this section.


(1) If a leak is detected using the methods described in paragraph (l) of this section, the owner or operator must repair the leak as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after identifying the leak, except as specified in paragraph (l)(2) of this section. Repair must include re-monitoring at the monitoring location where the leak was identified to verify that the criteria in paragraph (b)(6) of this section is no longer met. Actions that can be taken to achieve repair include but are not limited to:


(i) Physical modifications to the leaking heat exchanger, such as welding the leak or replacing a tube;


(ii) Blocking the leaking tube within the heat exchanger;


(iii) Changing the pressure so that water flows into the process fluid;


(iv) Replacing the heat exchanger or heat exchanger bundle; or


(v) Isolating, bypassing, or otherwise removing the leaking heat exchanger from service until it is otherwise repaired.


(2) The owner or operator may delay repair when the conditions in paragraph (e) of this section are met.





---

[N] [62 FR 2733, Jan. 17, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 43166, May 16, 2024]








