# ยง 9901.8   Fees.

(a) *Generally.* MCRMC may charge reasonable fees that recoup the allowable direct costs incurred in responding to FOIA requests. MCRMC may assess charges for time spent searching for records even if MCRMC is unable to locate the records or if the records are located and determined to be exempt from disclosure.


(1) *Timing.* MCRMC may toll the response time limit while awaiting information from the requester regarding fee assessment. Time limits resume upon MCRMC's receipt of a response from the requester.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this subpart:


(1) *All other request* means a request from or on behalf of a person who does not qualify as a *commercial use requester,* an *educational institution* requester, a *non-commercial scientific institution* requester, or a *representative of the news media requester.*

(2) *Commercial use request* means a request from or on behalf of a person who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the requester's or other person's commercial, trade, or profit interests.


(3) *Direct costs* means those costs incurred searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) documents in response to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, for example, salaries of employees who perform the work and costs of conducting large-scale computer searches. Direct costs do not include, for example, overhead expenses such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility.


(4) *Duplication* means to copy records in response to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audio-visual materials, or electronic records, among others.


(5) *Educational institution* is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. Records requested with the intention of fulfilling credit requirements or completion of individual research goals do not qualify as a request by an educational institution.


(6) *Non-commercial scientific institution* means an institution that is not operated on a commercial basis and operates solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.


(7) *Representative of the news media* means any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience.


(8) *Review* means to examine a record to determine whether any portion of the record may be withheld, and to process a record for disclosure.


(9) *Search* means to look for and retrieve records for a FOIA request, to include looking page-by-page or line-by-line to identify responsive material within individual records. Search includes time spent looking for records even if responsive records are not found.


(c) *Reduction of fees.* (1) MCRMC will not charge fees for any request where the fees would total less than $50.


(2) MCRMC will provide, except for *commercial use requesters,* without charge, the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media) and the first two hours of a search.


(3) MCRMC shall not assess search fees if the agency fails to comply with time limits set forth in subpart 9901.4 if no unusual circumstances, as defined in subpart 9901.4, apply to the processing of the request.


(d) *Waiver of fees.* MCRMC shall waive all or part of any fee provided for in this subpart where the FOIA Officer determines that disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government and the records sought are not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Requests for a fee waiver must explain how the information requested contributes to the public interest. In determining whether a fee should be waived, the FOIA Officer shall consider whether the requester has demonstrated that:


(1) The subject matter of the request specifically concerns identifiable operations or activities of the Government;


(2) The information is already in the public domain;


(3) Disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester; and


(4) Disclosure of the information would significantly enhance the public's understanding of the subject matter.


(e) *Categories of requesters.* Subject to the limitations of this subpart, MCRMC will assess fees for categories of requesters as follows:


(1) *Commercial use requesters* pay for search, review, and duplication.


(2) *Educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions* and *representatives of the news media* pay only for duplication (excluding charges for the first 100 pages or its cost equivalent).


(3) *All other requesters* pay for search (excluding the first two hours) and duplication (excluding charges for the first 100 pages or its cost equivalent).


(f) *Charges.* In responding to FOIA requests, MCRMC will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been requested and granted under this subpart. The fee amounts provided below account for direct costs.


(1) *Search and review.* For each quarter hour spent by MCRMC searching for requested records, including electronic searches, or reviewing records, the fee will be $10.77.


(2) *Duplication.* Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of this subpart. MCRMC will honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular format where it is readily reproducible in that form or format. Where photocopies are supplied, MCRMC will provide one copy per request at a cost of five cents per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other electronic media, MCRMC will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, MCRMC will charge the direct costs.


(3) *Special charges.* MCRMC shall recover the full cost of providing special services, such as sending records by an overnight delivery service, to the extent that MCRMC elects to provide them, as special services are not required by FOIA.


(4) *Aggregating requests.* When the FOIA Officer reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is/are attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the FOIA Officer may aggregate those requests and charge fees accordingly.


(5) *Advance payment.* When a requester has previously failed to pay fees in a timely fashion or MCRMC has determined that the fee will exceed $250, MCRMC may require advance payment of fees.


(6) *Remittances.* Payment shall be made in the form of check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States. At the time the FOIA Officer notifies a requester of the applicable fees, the FOIA Officer shall inform the requester of where to send the payment.




