# § 79.9   How does the Secretary receive and respond to comments?

(a) The Secretary follows the procedure in § 79.10 if:


(1) A State office or official is designated to act as a single point of contact between a State process and all federal agencies, and


(2) That office or official transmits a State process recommendation, and identifies it as such, for a program selected under § 79.6. 


(b)(1) The single point of contact is not obligated to transmit comments from State, areawide, regional, or local officials and entities if there is no State process recommendation.


(2) If a State process recommendation is transmitted by a single point of contact, all comments from State, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities that differ from it must also be transmitted.


(c) If a State has not established a process, or is unable to submit a State process recommendation, State, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities may submit comments to the Department.


(d) If a program or activity is not selected for a State process, State, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities may submit comments to the Department. In addition, if a State process recommendation for a nonselected program or activity is transmitted to the Department by the single point of contact, the Secretary follows the procedures of § 79.10.


(e) The Secretary considers comments which do not constitute a State process recommendation submitted under these regulations and for which the Secretary is not required to apply the procedures of § 79.10, if those comments are provided by a single point of contact, or directly to the Department by a commenting party.



---

[N] [48 FR 29166, June 24, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 20825, June 9, 1986; 89 FR 70343, Aug. 29, 2024]




