# ยง 594.10   Fee for review and processing of conformity certificate.

(a) Each registered importer shall pay a fee based on the agency's direct and indirect costs for the review and processing of each certificate of conformity furnished to the Administrator pursuant to ยง 591.7(e) of this chapter.


(b) The direct costs attributable to the review and processing of a certificate of conformity include the estimated cost of contract and professional staff time, computer usage, and record assembly, marking, shipment and storage costs.


(c) The indirect costs attributable to the review and processing of a certificate of conformity include a pro rata allocation of the average benefits of persons employed in reviewing and processing the certificates, and a pro rata allocation of the costs attributable to the rental and maintenance of office space and equipment, the use of office supplies, and other overhead items.


(d) The review and processing fee for each certificate of conformity submitted on and after October 1, 2014 is $10. However, if the vehicle covered by the certificate has been entered electronically with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security through the Automated Broker Interface and the registered importer submitting the certificate has an e-mail address, the fee for the certificate is $6, provided that the fee is paid by a credit card issued to the registered importer. If NHTSA finds that the information in the entry or the certificate is incorrect, requiring further processing, the processing fee shall be $57.



---

[N] [62 FR 50882, Sept. 29, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 45186, Aug. 25, 1998; 65 FR 56500, Sept. 19, 2000; 67 FR 60599, Sept. 26, 2002; 69 FR 57874, Sept. 28, 2004; 71 FR 43990, Aug. 3, 2006; 73 FR 54986, Sept. 24, 2008; 75 FR 48613, Aug. 11, 2010; 77 FR 50642, Oct. 1, 2012; 79 FR 57007, Sept. 24, 2014]




