# § 75.616   Energy conservation.

(a) To the extent practicable, a grantee must design and construct facilities to maximize the efficient use of energy. A grantee that is constructing a new school building or conducting a major rehabilitation of a school building may evaluate life-cycle costs and benefits of highly efficient, all-electric systems or a net zero energy project in the early design phase.


(b) A grantee must comply with ASHRAE 90.1-2022 in their construction project.


(c) ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2022 (I-P), Energy Standard for Sites and Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings (I-P Edition), 2022 (“ASHRAE Standard 90.1-2022”), is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Department of Education (the Department) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the Department at: Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW, room 4C212, Washington, DC, 20202-8472; phone: (202) 245-6776; email: *EDGAR@ed.gov.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) at American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc., 180 Technology Parkway, Peachtree Corners, GA 30092; *www.ashrae.org;* 404-636-8400.



---

[N] [89 FR 70333, Aug. 29, 2024]










