# ยง 380.25   Post-insolvency interest.

(a) *Date of accrual.* Post-insolvency interest shall be paid at the post-insolvency interest rate calculated on the principal amount of an allowed claim from the later of 


(i) The date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company; or 


(ii) In the case of a claim arising or becoming fixed and certain after the date of the appointment of the receiver, the date such claim arises or becomes fixed and certain.


(b) *Interest rate.* Post-insolvency interest rate shall equal, for any calendar quarter, the coupon equivalent yield of the average discount rate set on the three-month U.S. Treasury bill at the last auction held by the United States Treasury Department during the preceding calendar quarter. Post-insolvency interest shall be computed quarterly and shall be computed using a simple interest method of calculation.


(c) *Principal amount.* The principal amount of an allowed claim shall be the full allowed claim amount, including any interest that may have accrued to the extent such interest is included in the allowed claim.


(d) *Post-insolvency interest distributions.* (1) Post-insolvency interest shall only be distributed following satisfaction of the principal amount of all creditor claims set forth in ยง 380.21(a)(1) through 380.21(a)(9) and prior to any distribution pursuant to ยง 380.21(a)(11).


(2) Post-insolvency interest distributions shall be made at such time as the Corporation as receiver determines that such distributions are appropriate and only to the extent of funds available in the receivership estate. Post-insolvency interest shall be calculated on the outstanding principal amount of an allowed claim, as reduced from time to time by any interim distributions on account of such claim by the receiver.




