# ยง 721.10182   1-Propene, 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propene, 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro- (PMN P-07-601, SNUN S-14-11, and SNUN S-15-5; CAS No. 754-12-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* A significant new use is:


(A) Use other than as a refrigerant: In motor vehicle air conditioning systems in new passenger cars and vehicles (*i.e.,* as defined in 40 CFR 82.32(c) and (d)), in stationary and transport refrigeration, or in stationary air conditioning.


(B) Section 721.80(m) (commercial use other than: In passenger cars and vehicles in which the original charging of motor vehicle air conditioning systems with the PMN substance was done by the motor vehicle original equipment manufacturer (OEM), in stationary and transport refrigeration, or in stationary air conditioning).


(C) Section 721.80(o) (use in consumer products other than products used to recharge the motor vehicle air conditioning systems in passenger cars and vehicles in which the original charging of motor vehicle air conditioning systems with the PMN substance was done by the motor vehicle OEM).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [75 FR 65994, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 65572, Nov. 1, 2013; 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]




