# § 44.205   To contiguous foreign countries.

(a) Where tobacco products, or cigarette papers or tubes are removed from a factory or an export warehouse for export to a contiguous foreign country, the manufacturer or export warehouse proprietor making the shipment shall—


(1) Furnish to the district director of customs at the port of exit two copies of the notice of removal, Form 5200.14, together with the related shipper's export declaration, Commerce Form 7525-V (if required); and,


(2) If copies of the notice of removal are not filed with the shippers export declaration, or if a shipment is for the armed forces of the United States in the contiguous foreign country and a shipper's export declaration is not required, show all the information on the notice of removal when it is filed so that the customs officer is able to associate the notice with the related shipper's export declaration (if any) or other documents filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) for the shipment.


(b) When a shipment has been cleared by CBP from the United States, and when the customs officer at the port of exit is satisfied that the products have departed from the United States, that officer shall—


(1) Complete the certificate of exportation on both copies of the notice of removal;


(2) Retain one copy of the notice of removal for his records; and,


(3) Return the other copy to the manufacturer or export warehouse proprietor making the shipment for filing with the appropriate TTB officer. 


(c) The customs officer may, when he considers it necessary to establish that the merchandise was actually exported, require a landing certificate before he completes the certificate of exportation specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If practical, the customs officer will give advance notice to the manufacturer or export warehouse proprietor of the type of transactions for which a landing certificate will be required. However, failure to notify the manufacturer or proprietor in advance will not prevent the customs officer from requiring a landing certificate for specific exportations when he considers it necessary to protect the revenue. In any case, the customs officer will advise the manufacturer or proprietor before departure of the shipment from the United States as to those exports for which a landing certificate will be required.


(d) The provisions of this section relating to landing certificates also apply when a Form 5200.14 is not required for each transaction (for example: When multiple exportations, individually documented by commercial records, are consolidated on a single Form 5200.14 pursuant to an approved alternate procedure under § 44.72). The provisions apply to each transaction, regardless of the manner in which it is documented, unless specifically provided otherwise in the alternate procedure.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-52, 43 FR 59287, Dec. 19, 1978, as amended by T.D. ATF-232, 51 FR 28089, Aug. 5, 1986; T.D. ATF-243, 51 FR 43194, Dec. 1, 1986; T.D. ATF-421, 64 FR 71926, Dec. 22, 1999; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87949, Nov. 6, 2024]






