# § 52.795   Control strategy: Sulfur dioxide.

(a) Revised APC-13 (December 5, 1974 submission) of Indiana's Air Pollution Control regulations (sulfur dioxide emission limitation) is disapproved insofar as the provisions identified below will interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the suffix dioxide ambient air quality standards:


(1) The phrase “equivalent full load” in section 1(b)(2).


(2) The formula “E_p_ = 17.0 Q_m_0.67 where E_p_ = E_m_ × Q_m_” in section 2(a).


(3) The phrase “Direct fired process operations” in sections 2(a), 3(c), 4(b), and 4(c).


(4) The modification of Q_m_ for non-Indiana coal as expressed in Section 2(a).


(b) The requirements of § 51.281 are not met by Warrick and Culley electrical generating stations enforcement orders which would revise the sulfur dioxide emission limitations for these two stations.


(c) The requirements of § 51.110(e) are not met by Wayne, Dearborn, Jefferson, Porter, and Warrick Counties.


(d)-(e) [Reserved]


(f) Approval—On March 14, 1996, the State of Indiana submitted a maintenance plan for Lawrence, Washington, and Warren Townships in Marion County and the remainder of the county, and requested that it be redesignated to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for sulfur dioxide. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(g) Approval—On June 17, 1996, the State of Indiana submitted a maintenance plan for LaPorte, Vigo, and Wayne Counties and requested redesignation to attainment for the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for sulphur dioxide for each county in its entirety. The redesignation requests and maintenance plans satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(h) Approval—On June 21, 2005, and as supplemented on August 11, 2005, the State of Indiana submitted a request to redesignate the Lake County sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) nonattainment area to attainment of the NAAQS. In its submittal, the State also requested that EPA approve the maintenance plan for the area into the Indiana SO_2_ SIP. The redesignation request and maintenance plan satisfy all applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act.


(i) Approval—On March 28, 2013 the State of Indiana submitted a maintenance plan update for the Lake County, Indiana SO_2_ maintenance area. This plan update demonstrates that Lake County will maintain attainment of the 1971 SO_2_ NAAQS through 2025. This maintenance plan update satisfies section 175A of the Act.



---

[N] [41 FR 35677, Aug. 24, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 34519, July 6, 1977; 47 FR 10825, Mar. 12, 1982; 47 FR 39168, Sept. 7, 1982; 49 FR 585, Jan. 5, 1984; 51 FR 40676, 40677, Nov. 7, 1986; 53 FR 1358, Jan. 19, 1988; 54 FR 2118, Jan. 19, 1989; 61 FR 58486, Nov. 15, 1996; 70 FR 56131, Sept. 26, 2005; 78 FR 54176, Sept. 3, 2013]




