# ยง 52.1472   Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves Nevada's plan for the attainment and maintenance of the national standards under section 110 of the Clean Air Act.


(b) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves the plan with respect to Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for the nonattainment areas listed in this paragraph.


(1) Mason Valley/Fernley Area for TSP.


(2) Lower Reese River Valley/Clovers Area for TSP.


(3) Carson Desert for TSP.


(4) Winnemucca Segment for TSP.


(5) Truckee Meadows for TSP and CO.


(6) Las Vegas Valley for TSP and CO.


(7) Lake Tahoe Basin for CO.


(c) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves the plan with respect to Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in the 1977, for the nonattainment areas listed in this paragraph. In addition, continued satisfaction of the requirements of Part D for the ozone portion of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) depends on the adoption and submittal by January 1, 1981 of reasonably available control technology (RACT) requirements for sources covered by Control Technique Guidelines (CTG's) published between January 1978 and January 1979.


(1) Truckee Meadows for O_3_.


(2) Las Vegas Valley for O_3_.


(d) *1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on February 1, 2008 and August 30, 2012 are partially disapproved for Clean Air Act (CAA) elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(ii), (J) and (K) for the Nevada Division of Environmental Quality (NDEP) and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP; and for CAA element 110(a)(2)(F) for the Clark County portion of the Nevada SIP.


(e) *1997 P*_2.5_*NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on February 26, 2008 and August 30, 2012 are partially disapproved for CAA elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(ii), (J) and (K) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP; and for CAA element 110(a)(2)(F) for the Clark County portion of the Nevada SIP.


(f) *2006 PM*_2.5_*NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on September 15, 2009, December 4, 2009, and August 30, 2012 are partially disapproved for CAA elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II) (interfere with measures in any other state to prevent significant deterioration of air quality), (D)(ii), (J) and (K) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP; for CAA element 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the NDEP, Washoe County, and Clark County portions of the Nevada SIP; and for CAA element 110(a)(2)(F) for the Clark County portion of the Nevada SIP.


(g) *2008 Pb NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on October 12, 2011, July 23, 2012, and August 30, 2012 are partially disapproved for Clean Air Act (CAA) elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), and (J) for the Nevada Division of Environmental Quality (NDEP), Clark County, and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP; for CAA element (D)(ii) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP; and for CAA element 110(a)(2)(F)(iii) for the Clark County portion of the Nevada SIP.


(h) *2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on December 20, 2012 are partially disapproved for CAA elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(ii), and (J) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP.


(i) *2008 1-hour nitrogen dioxide NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on January 18, 2013 are partially disapproved for Clean Air Act (CAA) elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), (D)(ii), and (J) for the Nevada Division of Environmental Quality (NDEP) and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP.


(j) *2010 1-hour sulfur dioxide NAAQS:* The SIPs submitted on June 3, 2013, are disapproved for CAA elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), (D)(ii), and (J) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP.


(k) *2015 8-hour ozone NAAQS.* The SIP submittal from October 1, 2018, is disapproved for Clean Air Act (CAA) section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) (prongs 1 and 2) for the NDEP, Clark County, and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP submission. The Nevada state implementation plan (SIP) submittal on October 1, 2018 is partially disapproved for the prevention of significant deterioration-related portions of Clean Air Act (CAA) elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), (D)(ii), and (J) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP. CAA element 110(a)(2)(J) for public notification is conditionally approved for NDEP and Washoe County.


(l) *2012 24-hour PM*_2.5_*NAAQS.* The Nevada state implementation plan (SIP) submittal on December 11, 2015 is partially disapproved for the prevention of significant deterioration-related portions of Clean Air Act (CAA) elements 110(a)(2)(C), (D)(i)(II), (D)(ii), and (J) for the NDEP and Washoe County portions of the Nevada SIP. CAA element 110(a)(2)(J) for public notification is conditionally approved for NDEP and Washoe County.



---

[N] [46 FR 21766, Apr. 14, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 27069, June 23, 1982; 77 FR 64748, Oct. 23, 2012; 79 FR 15702, Mar. 21, 2014; 80 FR 67663, Nov. 3, 2015; 82 FR 9166, Feb. 3, 2017; 85 FR 41397, July 10, 2020; 88 FR 9383, Feb. 13, 2023; 88 FR 10049, Feb. 16, 2023; 88 FR 32125, May 19, 2023]




