# § 998.26   Computation of service obligations for NOAA Corps and officer training and civilian training and advanced education.

Service obligations incurred under § 998.24 and § 998.25(a) are computed as shown in this section, with the exception of fixed-period ADSOs as provided under § 998.24(a)(1) through (5). Officers may accumulate more than one ADSO from multiple obligating events. When an officer incurs an ADSO, compute the ADSO using the following rules:


(a) For obligating events that require calculation:


(1) For training greater than 60 days but equal to or fewer than 365 days:


(i) *Step 1.* Count the number of calendar days of the course of instruction using the beginning and end dates of the course, including breaks, weekends, holidays, and summers, regardless of whether the officers attended classes during those periods.


(ii) *Step 2.* Multiply the total found in Step 1 by three to get the total length of the ADSO in days.


(iii) *Step 3.* Add the number of days found in Step 2 to the end date of the training to determine the date that the ADSO will expire.


(iv) *Example.* An officer attends a semester-long civilian course of instruction that begins on January 1, 2021, and ends on May 30, 2021.


(A) *Step 1.* January 1, 2021 to May 30, 2021 = 150 training days.


(B) *Step 2.* 150 training days × 3 = 450 days, or 1 year, 85 days ADSO length.


(C) *Step 3.* May 30, 2021 + 450 days = August 23, 2022 ADSO expiration.


(2) For training greater than 365 days:


(i) *Step 1.* The first 365 days of training automatically incur three years ADSO.


(ii) *Step 2.* Count the number of additional training days from the 366th day to the end date of the course, including breaks, weekends, holidays, and summers, regardless of whether the officers attended classes during those periods.


(iii) *Step 3.* Add the number of days found in Step 2 to three years to determine the total ADSO length.


(iv) *Step 4.* Add the total ADSO length found in Step 3 to the end date of the training to determine the date that the ADSO will expire.


(v) *Example.* An officer attends a full-time civilian postgraduate program that spans three academic years, beginning on September 1, 2021 and graduating on May 31, 2024.


(A) *Step 1.* First year: September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2022 = 3 year ADSO.


(B) *Step 2.* Additional training time: September 1, 2022 to May 31, 2024 = 639 days or 1 year, 274 days.


(C) *Step 3.* 3-year ADSO + 639 days = 4 years, 274 days total ADSO length.


(D) *Step 4.* May 31, 2024 + 4 years, 274 days = March 1, 2029 ADSO expiration.


(b) The officer will ensure that supporting documents for each event are submitted to the NOAA Commissioned Personnel Center for review and verification for accurate calculation of their ADSO. The length of the ADSO shall be identified in the written agreement with the officer described in § 998.22(c).




