# ยง 63.854   Work practice standards for potlines.

(a) *Periods of operation other than startup.* If you own or operate a new or existing primary aluminum reduction affected source, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section during periods of operation other than startup.


(1) Ensure the potline scrubbers and exhaust fans are operational at all times.


(2) Ensure that the primary capture and control system is operating at all times.


(3) Hood covers should be replaced as soon as possible after each potroom operation.


(4) Inspect potlines daily and perform the work practices specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Identify unstable pots as soon as practicable but in no case more than 12 hours from the time the pot became unstable;


(ii) Reduce cell temperatures to as low as practicable, and follow the written operating plan described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section if the cell temperature exceeds the specified high temperature limit; and


(iii) Reseal pot crusts that have been broken as often and as soon as practicable.


(5) Ensure that hood covers fit properly and are in good condition.


(6) If the exhaust system is equipped with an adjustable damper system, the hood exhaust rate for individual pots must be increased whenever hood covers are removed from a pot, provided that the exhaust system will not be overloaded by placing too many pots on high exhaust.


(7) Dust entrainment must be minimized during material handling operations and sweeping of the working aisles.


(8) Only tapping crucibles with functional aspirator air return systems (for returning gases under the collection hooding) can be used, unless the regulatory authority approves an alternative tapping crucible.


(b) *Periods of startup.* If you own or operate a new or existing primary aluminum reduction affected source, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) and (b)(1) through (4) of this section during periods of startup for each affected potline.


(1) Develop a potline startup schedule before starting up the potline.


(2) Keep records of the number of pots started each day.


(3) Inspect potlines daily and adjust pot parameters to their optimum levels, as specified in the operating plan described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, including, but not limited to: alumina addition rate, exhaust air flow rate, cell voltage, feeding level, anode current and liquid and solid bath levels.


(4) Prepare a written operating plan to minimize emissions during startup to include, but not limited to, the requirements in (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The operating plan must include a specified high temperature limit for pots that will trigger corrective action.



---

[N] [80 FR 62423, Oct. 15, 2015]




