# ยง 229.1603   (Item 1603) SPAC sponsor; conflicts of interest.

(a) *SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and promoters.* Provide the following information about the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and promoters of the special purpose acquisition company:


(1) State the SPAC sponsor's name and describe the SPAC sponsor's form of organization.


(2) Describe the general character of the SPAC sponsor's business.


(3) Describe the experience of the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and any promoters in organizing special purpose acquisition companies and the extent to which the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and the promoters are involved in other special purpose acquisition companies.


(4) Describe the material roles and responsibilities of the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and any promoters in directing and managing the special purpose acquisition company's activities.


(5) Describe any agreement, arrangement, or understanding between the SPAC sponsor and the special purpose acquisition company, its officers, directors, or affiliates with respect to determining whether to proceed with a de-SPAC transaction.


(6) Disclose the nature (*e.g.,* cash, shares of stock, warrants and rights) and amounts of all compensation that has been or will be awarded to, earned by, or paid to the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and any promoters for all services rendered or to be rendered in all capacities to the special purpose acquisition company and its affiliates and the amount of securities issued or to be issued by the SPAC to the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and any promoters and the price paid or to be paid for such securities. Disclose any circumstances or arrangements under which the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and promoters, directly or indirectly, have transferred or could transfer ownership of securities of the SPAC, or that have resulted or could result in the surrender or cancellation of such securities. In addition, disclose the nature and amounts of any reimbursements to be paid to the SPAC sponsor, its affiliates, and any promoters upon the completion of a de-SPAC transaction.


(7) Identify the controlling persons of the SPAC sponsor. Disclose, as of the most recent practicable date, the persons who have direct and indirect material interests in the SPAC sponsor, as well as the nature and amount of their interests.


(8) Describe any agreement, arrangement, or understanding, including any payments, between the SPAC sponsor and unaffiliated security holders of the special purpose acquisition company regarding the redemption of outstanding securities of the special purpose acquisition company.


(9) Disclose, in a tabular format to the extent practicable, the material terms of any agreement, arrangement, or understanding regarding restrictions on whether and when the SPAC sponsor and its affiliates may sell securities of the special purpose acquisition company, including the date(s) on which the agreement, arrangement, or understanding may expire; the natural persons and entities subject to such an agreement, arrangement, or understanding; any exceptions under such an agreement, arrangement, or understanding; and any terms that would result in an earlier expiration of such an agreement, arrangement, or understanding.


(b) *Conflicts of interest.* Describe any actual or potential material conflict of interest, including any material conflict of interest that may arise in determining whether to proceed with a de-SPAC transaction and any material conflict of interest arising from the manner in which the special purpose acquisition company compensates a SPAC sponsor, officers, or directors or the manner in which a SPAC sponsor compensates its officers and directors, between:


(1) The SPAC sponsor or its affiliates; the special purpose acquisition company's officers, directors, or promoters; or the target company's officers or directors; and


(2) Unaffiliated security holders of the SPAC.


(c) *SPAC officer and director fiduciary duties.* Briefly describe the fiduciary duties of each officer and director of the special purpose acquisition company to other companies to which they have fiduciary duties.






