# § 1204.501   Delegation of authority—to take actions in real estate and related matters.

(a) *Delegation of authority.* The Assistant Administrator for the Office of Strategic Infrastructure and the Director, Facilities and Real Estate Division, are delegated authority, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and subject to conditions imposed by immediate superiors, to:


(1) Prescribe agency real estate policies, procedures, and regulations;


(2) Enter into and take other actions including, but not limited to, the following;


(i) Acquire (by purchase, lease, condemnation, or otherwise) fee and lesser interests in real property and, in the case of acquisition by condemnation, sign declarations of taking.


(ii) Use, with their consent, the facilities of Federal and other agencies with or without reimbursement, in accordance with statutory authority.


(iii) Determine entitlement to and quantum of, financial compensation under, and otherwise exercise the authority contained in the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4601), and regulations in implementation thereof.


(iv) Grant easements, leaseholds, licenses, permits, or other interests (wherever located) in or over real property owned or controlled by NASA.


(v) Grant the use of NASA-owned or -controlled real property and approve the acquisition and use of nongovernment owned real property for any NASA-related, nonappropriated fund activity purpose with the concurrence of the NASA Office of the Chief Financial Officer.


(vi) Sell and otherwise dispose of real property in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 471, et seq).


(vii) Exercise control over the acquisition, utilization, and disposal of movable/relocatable structures including prefabricated buildings, commercial packaged accommodations, trailers, and other like items used as facility substitutes.


(viii) Request other government agencies to act as real estate agent for NASA.


(ix) Authorize other NASA officials to take specific implementing action with regard to any real property transaction included in the scope of authority delegated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(b) *Redelegation.* (1) The authority delegated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may not be redelegated.


(2) The authority delegated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be redelegated with power of further redelegation.


(c) *Reporting.* The officials to whom authority is delegated in this section shall ensure that feedback is provided to keep the Administrator fully and currently informed of significant actions, problems, or other matters of substance related to the exercise of the authority delegated hereunder.



---

[N] [51 FR 26862, July 28, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 57592, Nov. 13, 1991; 79 FR 11319, Feb. 28, 2014; 89 FR 26758, Apr. 16, 2024]




