# § 63.7935   What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emissions limitations (including operating limits) and the work practice standards in this subpart at all times, except, until January 6, 2021, during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources, after January 6, 2021, you must be in compliance with the emission limitations (including operating limits) and the work practice standards in this subpart at all times.


(b) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, at all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(c) If your initial startup date was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3), and a SSMP is not required after January 6, 2021. No SSMP is required for any source for which the initial startup date is after September 3, 2019.


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emissions limitation and each operating limit that applies to you. You must also report each instance in which you did not meet the requirements for work practice standards that apply to you. These instances are deviations from the emissions limitations and work practice standards in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.7951.


(f) If your initial start date was on or before September 3, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), then until January 6, 2021, deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). We will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, you must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart at all times (unless a longer timeframe for compliance is expressly provided in this subpart), and we will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.7935(a) and (b).


(g) For each monitoring system required in this section, you must develop and make available for inspection by the permitting authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the following: 


(1) Installation of the continuous monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (*e.g.,* on or downstream of the last control device). 


(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system. 


(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*e.g.,* calibrations).


(4) Continuous monitoring system (CMS) operation and maintenance requirements in accordance with § 63.7945.


(5) CMS data collection in accordance with § 63.7946.


(h) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address the following: 


(1) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing operation and maintenance (O&M) procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (3), (4)(ii), (7), and (8). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing O&M procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(7) and (8).


(2) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d) except for the requirements related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans referenced in § 63.8(d)(3). The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(3) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c)(1) through (14), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).


(i) You must operate and maintain the continuous monitoring system according to the site-specific monitoring plan. 


(j) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring according to your site-specific monitoring plan.



---

[N] [68 FR 58190, Oct. 8, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20468, Apr. 20, 2006; 71 FR 69018, Nov. 29, 2006; 85 FR 41707, July 10, 2020]




