# ยง 52.2277   Control strategy and regulations: Sulfur Dioxide.

(a) *Determination of Attainment.* Effective June 14, 2021, based upon EPA's review of the available monitoring data, emissions data, and air quality modeling, EPA has determined that the Anderson and Freestone Counties and the Titus County nonattainment areas have attained the 2010 Primary 1-hour Sulfur Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standard (2010 SO_2_ NAAQS). Under the provisions of EPA's Clean Data Policy, this clean data determination suspends the requirements for these areas to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning State Implementation Plan revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2010 SO_2_ NAAQS or until the area is formally redesignated.


(b) *Determination of Attainment by the Attainment Date.* Effective January 15, 2025, the EPA finalizes its determination that the sulfur dioxide nonattainment area in Freestone and Anderson Counties and the sulfur dioxide nonattainment area in Titus County have each attained the 2010 1-hour primary sulfur dioxide National Ambient Air Quality Standard by the applicable attainment date of January 12, 2022, in accordance with CAA section 179(c). This determination is based on primary source shutdowns, available ambient air quality monitoring data from the 2019-2021 monitoring period, relevant modeling analysis, and additional emissions inventory information.


(c) *Determination of failure to attain.* Effective January 16, 2025, the EPA has determined that the Rusk and Panola Counties, Texas nonattainment area failed to attain the 2010 1-hour primary sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of January 12, 2022. This determination triggers the requirements of CAA section 179(d) for the State of Texas to submit a revision to the Texas SIP for the Rusk and Panola Counties nonattainment area to the EPA by December 17, 2025. The SIP revision must, among other elements, provide for attainment of the 1-hour primary SO_2_ NAAQS in the Rusk and Panola Counties, Texas SO_2_ nonattainment area as expeditiously as practicable but no later than December 17, 2029.





---

[N] [86 FR 26406, May 14, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 101478, Dec. 16, 2024; 89 FR 101895, Dec. 17, 2024]




