# § 488.830   Action when deficiencies are at the condition-level but do not pose immediate jeopardy.

(a) *Noncompliance.* If the HHA is no longer in compliance with the conditions of participation, either because the deficiency or deficiencies substantially limit the provider's capacity to furnish adequate care but do not pose immediate jeopardy, have a condition-level deficiency or deficiencies that do not pose immediate jeopardy, or because the HHA has repeat noncompliance that results in a condition-level deficiency based on the HHA's failure to correct and sustain compliance, CMS will:


(1) Terminate the HHA's provider agreement; or


(2) Impose one or more alternative sanctions set forth in § 488.820(a) through (f) of this part as an alternative to termination, for a period not to exceed 6 months.


(b) *15-day notice.* Except for civil money penalties, for all sanctions specified in § 488.820 imposed when there is no immediate jeopardy, notice must be given at least 15 calendar days before the effective date of the enforcement action. The requirements of the notice are set forth in § 488.810(f) of this part.


(c) *Not meeting criteria for continuation of payment.* If an HHA does not meet the criteria for continuation of payment under § 488.860(a) of this part, CMS will terminate the HHA's provider agreement in accordance with § 488.865 of this part.


(d) *Termination time frame when there is no immediate jeopardy.* CMS terminates an HHA within 6 months of the last day of the survey, if the HHA is not in compliance with the conditions of participation, and the terms of the plan of correction have not been met.


(e) *Transfer of care.* An HHA, if its provider agreement terminated, is responsible for providing information, assistance, and arrangements necessary for the proper and safe transfer of patients to another local HHA within 30 days of termination. The State must assist the HHA in the safe and orderly transfer of care and services for the patients to another local HHA.




