# ยง 1780.36   Approving official review.

Projects may be obligated as their applications are completed and approved.


(a) *Selection of applications for further processing.* The application and supporting information submitted will be used to determine the applications selected for further development and funding. After completing the review, the approval official will normally select those eligible applications with the highest priority scores for further processing. When authorizing the development of an application for funding, the following will be considered:


(1) Funds available in State allocation;


(2) Anticipated allocation of funds for the next fiscal year; and


(3) Time necessary for applicant to complete the application.


(b) *Lower scoring projects.* (1) In cases where preliminary cost estimates indicate that an eligible, high scoring application is unfeasible or would require an amount of funding from RUS that exceeds either 25 percent of a State's current annual allocation or an amount greater than that remaining in the State's allocation, the approval official may instead select the next lower scoring application for further processing provided the high scoring applicant is notified of this action and given an opportunity to revise the proposal and resubmit it.


(2) If it is found that there is no effective way to reduce costs or no other funding sources, the approval official, after consultation with applicant, may submit a request for an additional allocation of funds for the proposed project to the National Office. The request should be submitted during the fiscal year in which obligation is anticipated. Such request will be considered along with all others on hand. A written justification must be prepared and placed in the project file.




