# ยง 1206.6   Notice and review.

(a) *Written notice of budget.* The Director shall provide to each Regulated Entity written notice of the projected budget for the Agency for the upcoming fiscal year. Such notice shall be provided at least 30 days before the beginning of the applicable fiscal year.


(b) *Written notice of assessments.* The Director shall provide each Regulated Entity with written notice of assessments as follows:


(1) *Annual assessments.* The Director shall provide each Regulated Entity with written notice of the annual assessment and the semiannual payments to be collected under this part. Notice of the annual assessment and semiannual payments shall be provided before the start of the new fiscal year.


(2) *Immediate assessments.* The Director shall provide each Regulated Entity with written notice of any immediate assessments to be collected under ยง 1206.4 of this chapter. Notice of any immediate assessment and the required payments shall be provided at such reasonable time as determined by the Director.


(3) *Changes to assessments.* The Director shall provide each Regulated Entity with written notice of any changes in the assessment procedures that the Director, in his or her sole discretion, deems necessary under the circumstances.


(c) *Request for review.* At the written request of a Regulated Entity, the Director, in his or her discretion, may review the calculation of the proportional share of the annual assessment, the semiannual payments, and any partial payments to be collected under this part. The determination of the Director upon such review is final. Except as provided by the Director, review by the Director does not suspend the requirement that the Regulated Entity make the semiannual payment or partial payment on or before the date it is due. Any adjustments determined appropriate shall be credited or otherwise addressed by the following year's assessment for that entity.




