# § 93.102   Ports designated for the importation of birds.

(a) *Special ports for pet birds.* The following ports are designated as ports of entry for pet birds imported under the provisions of § 93.101(c) and performing or theatrical birds imported under the provisions of § 93.101(f): Los Angeles and San Ysidro, CA; Miami, FL; New York, NY; Baudette, MN; and Hidalgo, TX.


(b) *Designation of other ports.* The Secretary of the Treasury has approved the designation as quarantine stations of the ports specified in this section. In special cases other ports may be designated as quarantine stations under this section by the Administrator, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury. 


(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, all commercial birds, zoological birds, or research birds shall be imported only at a port of entry specified in § 93.105. 


(d) *Limited ports.* The following ports are designated as ports of entry for pet birds imported under the provisions of § 93.101(c)(1) or (2) and performing or theatrical birds imported under the provisions of § 93.101(f): Anchorage and Fairbanks, AK; San Diego, CA; Jacksonville, Port Canaveral, St. Petersburg-Clearwater, and Tampa, FL; Atlanta, GA; Honolulu, HI; Chicago, IL; New Orleans, LA; Baltimore, MD; Portland, ME; Minneapolis, MN; Great Falls, MT; Covington, KY (Greater Cincinnati International Airport); Portland, OR; San Juan, PR; Galveston and Houston, TX; and Seattle, Spokane, and Tacoma, WA. 



---

[N] [55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 36026, July 15, 1994; 60 FR 16045, Mar. 29, 1995; 60 FR 25120, May 11, 1995; 61 FR 68125, Dec. 27, 1996. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56014, Oct. 28, 1997; 65 FR 38178, June 20, 2000; 67 FR 6370, Feb. 12, 2002]




