# § 63.3093   What operating limits must I meet?

(a) You are not required to meet any operating limits for any coating operation(s) without add-on controls, nor are you required to meet operating limits for any coating operation(s) that do not utilize emission capture systems and add-on controls to comply with the emission limits in § 63.3090 or § 63.3091.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, for any controlled coating operation(s), you must meet the operating limits specified in table 1 to this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and add-on control systems on the coating operation(s) for which you use this option, and you must establish the operating limits during performance tests according to the requirements in § 63.3167. You must meet the operating limits at all times after you establish them.


(c) If you choose to meet the emission limitations of § 63.3092(b) and the emission limits of § 63.3090(b) or § 63.3091(b), then except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, you must operate the capture system and add-on control device used to capture and control emissions from your electrodeposition primer bake oven(s) so that they meet the operating limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart. 


(d) If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in Table 1 to this subpart, or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f). 



---

[N] [69 FR 22623, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41125, July 8, 2020]




