# ยง 1250.104   Assurances.

(a) *General requirement.* Every application for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies, and every application for Federal financial assistance to provide a facility shall, as a condition to its approval and the extension of any Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, contain, be accompanied by, or identify and make reference to, an assurance that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part. If the assurance is not made a part of the application, the application shall identify the assurance which is applicable to the application. One assurance shall suffice for all applications of an applicant if the assurance complies with the conditions made applicable by this part to each such application for Federal financial assistance. Every assurance shall include provisions which give the United States a right to seek its judicial enforcement.


(b) *Duration of assurances.* The period of time to be covered by the assurances required under this ยง 1250.104 shall be as follows:


(1) *Real property.* In the case of an application for Federal financial assistance for providing real property or structures thereon, the assurance shall obligate the recipient, or in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits.


(2) *Personal property.* In the case of an application for Federal financial assistance for providing personal property, the assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which he retains ownership or possession of the property.


(3) *Other kinds of Federal financial assistance.* In the case of an application for any other kind of Federal financial assistance, the assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended pursuant to the application.


(c) *Assurances for research, training, or educational programs.* (1) In the case of application by an institution of higher education or any other organization for Federal financial assistance for a program or activity which involves participation by students, fellows or trainees, including but not limited to assistance for research, training, or the provision of facilities, the assurance required by this ยง 1250.104 shall extend to admission practices and to all other practices relating to the treatment of students or other participants.


(2) The assurances from such an applicant shall be applicable to the entire organization of the applicant.


(d) *Assurances for construction of facilities.* In the case of assistance for the construction of a facility, or part thereof, the assurance shall extend to the entire facility and to facilities operated in connection therewith. In grants to assist in the construction of facilities for the provision of research, training, or educational services, assurances will be required that services will be provided without discrimination, to the same extent that discrimination would be forbidden as a condition of grants for the support of such services. Thus, as a condition of grants for the construction of academic, research or other facilities at institutions of higher education, assurances will be required that there will be no discrimination in the admission or treatment of students. Also, see paragraph (c) of this section for the requirement as to the applicability of the assurance to the applicant's organization.


(e) *Instrument effecting or recording transfers of real property.* The instrument effecting or recording the transfer, shall contain a covenant running with the land assuring nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. Where no transfer of property is involved, but property is improved with Federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include such a covenant in any subsequent transfer of such property. Where the property is obtained from the Federal Government, such covenant may also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by NASA to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant where, in the discretion of the responsible NASA official, such a condition and right of reverter is appropriate to the statute under which the real property is obtained and to the nature of the grant and the grantee.


(f) *Assurances for transfer of surplus real property.* Transfers of surplus property are subject to regulations issued by the Administrator of General Services (41 CFR 101-6.2).


(g) *Form of assurances.* The responsible NASA officials shall specify the form of assurances required by this ยง 1250.104 and the extent to which like assurances will be required by subgrantees, contractors and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants in the program.


(h) *Requests for proposals.* Any request for proposals issued by NASA which relates to covered financial assistance listed in appendix A shall have set forth therein or have attached thereto the assurance prescribed in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, and shall require that the proposer either include the assurance as a part of his signed proposal or identify and refer to an assurance already signed and submitted by the proposer.



---

[N] [30 FR 301, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17937, July 5, 1973; 68 FR 51350, Aug. 26, 2003]




