# ยง 9.302   Definitions.

The terms used in this subpart shall have the following meaning:


(a) *AMRAP* means the Alaska Mineral Resource Assessment Program authorized by section 1010 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA), 16 U.S.C. 3150.


(b) *AMRAP Activities* means any project, method, technique or other activity incidental to mineral resource assessments conducted by authorized AMRAP agencies or their contractors in units of the National Park System in Alaska pursuant to section 1010 of ANILCA under an approved permit. AMRAP activities include access into, across, through, or over a unit of the National Park System for the conduct of those activities. Only mineral resource assessment methods or techniques that do not result in lasting impacts on park resources and values may be permitted as AMRAP activities. Mineral resource assessment techniques may include aerial photography; remote sensing; hand-sampling of geologic materials; hand-sampling or hand-augering methods for geochemical analyses; and geophysical techniques such as magnetic, electrical, electromagnetic, chemical, radioactive, and gravitational methods. Mineral resource assessment activities may be permitted as long as: 


(1) No explosives are used; 


(2) They are consistent with ยง 9.306; and 


(3) They are consistent with the provisions of the Wilderness Act of 1964 (16 U.S.C. 1131 *et seq.*) and National Park Service policies concerning wilderness management and the use of motorized equipment in wilderness areas.


Core and test drilling, including exploratory drilling of oil and gas test wells, are explicitly prohibited as AMRAP activities in units of the National Park System.


(c) *AMRAP agencies* means those agencies of the U.S. Department of the Interior that are authorized by the Secretary to perform mineral resource assessment activities pursuant to section 1010 of ANILCA.


(d) *Superintendent* means the Superintendent, or his/her designee, of the unit of the National Park System in Alaska where AMRAP activities are conducted or proposed to be conducted.



---

[N] [56 FR 22652, May 16, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 55791, Nov. 3, 1995; 62 FR 30234, June 3, 1997; 81 FR 78005, Nov. 4, 2016]




