# § 156.100   State selection of benchmark plan for plan years beginning prior to January 1, 2020.

For plan years beginning before January 1, 2020, each State may identify a base-benchmark plan according to the selection criteria described below:


(a) *State selection of base-benchmark plan.* The options from which a base-benchmark plan may be selected by the State are the following:


(1) *Small group market health plan.* The largest health plan by enrollment in any of the three largest small group insurance products by enrollment, as defined in § 159.110 of this subpart, in the State's small group market as defined in § 155.20 of this subchapter.


(2) *State employee health benefit plan.* Any of the largest three employee health benefit plan options by enrollment offered and generally available to State employees in the State involved.


(3) *FEHBP plan.* Any of the largest three national Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) plan options by aggregate enrollment that is offered to all health-benefits-eligible federal employees under 5 USC 8903.


(4) *HMO.* The coverage plan with the largest insured commercial non-Medicaid enrollment offered by a health maintenance organization operating in the State.


(b) *EHB-benchmark selection standards.* In order to become an EHB-benchmark plan as defined in § 156.20 of this subchapter, a state-selected base-benchmark plan must meet the requirements for coverage of benefits and limits described in § 156.110 of this subpart; and


(c) *Default base-benchmark plan.* If a State does not make a selection using the process described in this section, the default base-benchmark plan will be the largest plan by enrollment in the largest product by enrollment in the State's small group market.


(d) *Applicability date:* For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2020, § 156.111 applies in place of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 12866, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 10871, Feb. 27, 2015; 83 FR 17068, Apr. 17, 2018]




