# ยง 38.14   Voluntary services.

(a) *Scope.* An ASE or AEPA may, subject to the approval of the local school board concerned, accept voluntary services on behalf of Bureau schools from the private sector, including individuals, groups, or students. Voluntary service shall be for all non-hazardous activities where public services, special projects, or school operations are improved and enhanced. Volunteer service is limited to personal services received without compensation (salary or wages) by the Bureau from individuals, groups, and students. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require Federal employees to work without compensation or to allow the use of volunteer services to displace or replace Federal employees. 


(b) *Volunteer service agreement.* An agreement is a written document, jointly completed by the volunteer, the Bureau school supervisor, and the school board, that outlines the responsibilities of each. In the case of students receiving credit for their work (i.e., student teaching) from an education institution, the agreement will be jointly completed by the student, a representative of the institution, and the Bureau school supervisor. In the case of volunteer groups, the agreement shall be signed by an official of the volunteering organization, the Bureau school supervisor, and the school board and a list of signatures and emergency telephone numbers of all participants shall be attached. 


(c) *Eligibility.* Although no minimum age requirement exists for volunteers, schools shall comply with appropriate Federal and State laws and standards on using the services of minors. All volunteers under the age of 18 must obtain written permission from their parents or guardians to perform volunteer activities. 


(d) *Status.* Volunteers participating under this part are not considered Federal employees for any purpose other than: 


(1) Title 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, dealing with compensation for injuries sustained during the performance of work assignments. 


(2) Federal tort claims provisions published in 28 U.S.C. chapter 171. 


(3) Department of the Interior Regulations Governing Responsibilities and Conduct. 


(e) *Travel and other expenses.* The decision to reimburse travel and other incidental expenses, as well as the amount of reimbursement, shall be made by the school supervisor, ASE, AEPA, and the respective school board. Payment is made in the same manner as for regular employees. Payment of travel and per diem expenses to a volunteer on a particular assignment must be supported by a specific travel authorization and cannot exceed the cost of employing a temporary employee of comparable qualification at the school for which a travel authorization is considered. 


(f) *Annual report.* School supervisors shall submit reports on volunteers to the ASE or AEPA by October 31 of each year for the preceding year. 




