# § 60.64   Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests and relative accuracy tests required in § 60.8, you must use reference methods and procedures and the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).


(b)(1)You must demonstrate compliance with the PM standards in § 60.62 using EPA method 5 or method 5I.


(2) Use Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 to determine opacity.


(3) Any sources other than kilns (including associated alkali bypass and clinker cooler) that are subject to the 10 percent opacity limit must follow the appropriate monitoring procedures in § 63.1350(f), (m)(1)through (4), (10) and (11), (o), and (p) of this chapter.


(c) Calculate and record the rolling 30 kiln operating day average emission rate daily of NO_X_ and SO_2_ according to the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(1) Calculate the rolling 30 kiln operating day average emissions according to equation 6:


(2) [Reserved]


(d)(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (see § 60.8) as required by this subpart you must submit the results of the performance tests conducted to demonstrate compliance under this subpart to the EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*http://www.epa.gov/cdx*). Performance test data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see *http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*). Only data collected using test methods on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the CBI, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(2) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test as defined in § 63.2, you must submit relative accuracy test audit (RATA) data to the EPA's CDX by using CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Only RATA pollutants that can be documented with the ERT (as listed on the ERT Web site) are subject to this requirement. For any performance evaluations with no corresponding RATA pollutants listed on the ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(3) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (e.g. beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.


(4) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (d)(1) and (2) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [78 FR 10035, Feb. 12, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 44778, July 27, 2015]




