# ยง 44.6091-1   Place for filing returns.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a return on Form 730 or Form 11-C shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office that serves the legal residence or principal place of business of the person making the return. 


(b) *Returns of individuals outside the United States.* The returns on Form 730 and Form 11-C of individuals (whether citizens of the United States, citizens of possessions of the United States, or aliens) outside the United States having no legal residence or principal place of business in the United States shall be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45999, or as otherwise directed in the applicable forms and instructions.


(c) *Returns filed with service centers.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, whenever instructions applicable to returns filed on Form 730 of Form 11-C provide that the returns be filed with a service center, the returns shall be so filed in accordance with the instructions.


(d) *Hand-carried returns.* Returns which are filed by hand carrying shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive hand-carried returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. See ยง 301.6091-1(c) of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Admininstration) for provisions relating to the definition of hand carried.



---

[N] [T.D. 6370, 24 FR 2614, Apr. 4, 1959, as amended by T.D. 7630, 44 FR 40498, July 11, 1979; T.D. 8442, 57 FR 48185, Oct. 22, 1992; T.D. 9156, 69 FR 55746, Sept. 16, 2004]




