# ยง 141.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) This regulation provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the federal government. These regulations apply to employees of other federal agencies and current employees of the Commission who owe debts to the Commission and to current employees of the Commission who owe debts to other federal agencies. This regulation does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.


(b) This regulation does not apply to debts or claims arising under:


(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*;


(2) The Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*;


(3) The tariff laws of the United States; or


(4) Any case where a collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.


(c) This regulation does not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's selection of coverage or a change in coverage under a federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.


(d) This regulation does not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.*, 4 CFR parts 101 through 105, 45 CFR part 1177.


(e) This regulation does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774 or 32 U.S.C. 716 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office in accordance with General Accounting Office procedures. This regulation does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected. Neither the requesting of a waiver nor the filing of a claim with the General Accounting Office will affect the amount or validity of the debt being collected until a waiver has been granted or the debt has been determined to be for an incorrect amount or invalid.


(f) Matters not addressed in these regulations should be reviewed in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards at 4 CFR 101.1 *et seq.*

