# ยง 180.415   Notice of proposed adverse action regarding Federal financial assistance in non-Fair Housing Act matters.

(a) *Filing and service.* Within 10 days after a recipient/applicant has requested a hearing, as provided for in 24 CFR parts 1, 6, 8, or 146, the General Counsel shall file a notice of proposed adverse action with the Docket Clerk and serve copies (with the additional information required under paragraph (b) of this section) on all respondents and complainants.


(b) *Contents.* The notice of proposed adverse action shall consist of a short and plain written statement of the facts and legal authority upon which the proposed action is based. A notification shall be served with the notice containing the following information: 


(1) That an administrative hearing will be held at a date and place specified. 


(2) That the respondent will have an opportunity to file an answer to the notice of adverse action within 30 days after its service. 


(3) That the complainant may participate as an amicus curiae by filing a timely request to do so. 


(4) That discovery must be concluded by a date specified. 


(5) That the rules specified in this part shall govern the proceeding. 


(c) *Consolidation.* The ALJ may provide for non-Fair Housing Act proceedings at HUD to be joined or consolidated for hearing with proceedings in other Federal departments or agencies, by agreement with such other departments or agencies. All parties to any proceeding consolidated subsequent to service of the notice of proposed adverse action shall be promptly served with notice of such consolidation. 



---

[N] [61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 3802, Jan. 25, 1999; 74 FR 4636, Jan. 26, 2009]




