# ยง 102-37.205   What agreements must a SASP make?

With respect to surplus property picked up by or shipped to your SASP, you must agree to the following: 


(a) You will make prompt statewide distribution of such property, on a fair and equitable basis, to donees eligible to acquire property under 40 U.S.C. 549 and GSA regulations. You will distribute property only after such eligible donees have properly executed the appropriate certifications and agreements established by your SASP and/or GSA. 


(b) Title to the property remains in the United States Government although you have taken possession of it. Conditional title to the property will pass to the eligible donee when the donee executes the required certifications and agreements and takes possession of the property. 


(c) You will: 


(1) Promptly pay the cost of care, handling, and shipping incident to taking possession of the property. 


(2) During the time that title remains in the United States Government, be responsible as a bailee for the property from the time it is released to you or to the transportation agent you have designated. 


(3) In the event of any loss of or damage to any or all of the property during transportation or storage at a place other than a place under your control, take the necessary action to obtain restitution (fair market value) for the Government. In the event of loss or damage due to negligence or willful misconduct on your part, repair, replace, or pay to the GSA the fair market value of any such property, or take such other action as the GSA may direct. 


(d) You may retain property to perform your donation program functions, but only when authorized by GSA in accordance with the provisions of a cooperative agreement entered into with GSA. 


(e) When acting under an interstate cooperative distribution agreement (see ยง 102-37.335) as an agent and authorized representative of an adjacent State, you will: 


(1) Make the certifications and agreements required in ยง 102-37.200 and this section on behalf of the adjacent SASP. 


(2) Require the donee to execute the distribution documents of the State in which the donee is located. 


(3) Forward copies of the distribution documents to the corresponding SASP. 


(f) You will not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap in the distribution of property, and will comply with GSA regulations on nondiscrimination as set forth in parts 101-4, subparts 101-6.2, and 101-8.3 of this title. 


(g) You will not seek to hold the United States Government liable for consequential or incidental damages or the personal injuries, disabilities, or death to any person arising from the transfer, donation, use, processing, or final disposition of this property. The Government's liability in any event is limited in scope to that provided for by the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 2671, *et seq.*).



---

[N] [67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]




