# ยง 21.4216   Review of decision of Director of VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction.

(a) *Decision is subject to review by the Director, Education Service.* At the request of the educational institution the Director, Education Service will review a decision of a Director of a VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction to discontinue payments; to disapprove new enrollments or reenrollments; or to deny payment of benefits for licensing or certification tests. This review will be based on the evidence of record when the Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction made that decision. It will not be *de novo* in nature and no hearing on the issue will be held. When reviewing a decision to deny payment for licensing or certification tests, the Director, Education Service may seek the advice of the Professional Certification and Licensure Advisory Committee established under 38 U.S.C. 3689(e). 


(b) *Authority of Director, Education Service.* The Director, Education Service has the authority to affirm, reverse, or remand the original decision. In the case of such a review, the reviewing official's decision, other than a remand, shall become the final Department decision on the issue presented.


(c) *Notice of decision of Director, Education Service is required.* Notice of the reviewing official's decision will be provided to the interested parties and published in the _Federal Register,_ in the same manner as is provided in ยง 21.4215(e) for decisions of the Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction, for the information of all concerned.



---

[N] [63 FR 35836, July 1, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 16973, Apr. 5, 2007; 74 FR 14669, Mar. 31, 2009]




