# § 39.2   Definitions.

*Energy compensation source* (ECS) means a small sealed source, with an activity not exceeding 3.7 MBq [100 microcuries], used within a logging tool, or other tool components, to provide a reference standard to maintain the tool's calibration when in use. 


*Field station* means a facility where licensed material may be stored or used and from which equipment is dispatched to temporary jobsites.


*Fresh water aquifer,* for the purpose of this part, means a geologic formation that is capable of yielding fresh water to a well or spring.


*Injection tool* means a device used for controlled subsurface injection of radioactive tracer material.


*Irretrievable well logging source* means any sealed source containing licensed material that is pulled off or not connected to the wireline that suspends the source in the well and for which all reasonable effort at recovery has been expended.


*Licensed material* means byproduct, source, or special nuclear material received, processed, used, or transferred under a license issued by the Commission under the regulations in this chapter.


*Logging assistant* means any individual who, under the personal supervision of a logging supervisor, handles sealed sources or tracers that are not in logging tools or shipping containers or who performs surveys required by § 39.67.


*Logging supervisor* means an individual who uses licensed material or provides personal supervision in the use of licensed material at a temporary jobsite and who is responsible to the licensee for assuring compliance with the requirements of the Commission's regulations and the conditions of the license.


*Logging tool* means a device used subsurface to perform well logging.


*Personal supervision* means guidance and instruction by a logging supervisor, who is physically present at a temporary jobsite, who is in personal contact with logging assistants, and who can give immediate assistance.


*Radioactive marker* means licensed material used for depth determination or direction orientation. For purposes of this part, this term includes radioactive collar markers and radioactive iron nails.


*Safety review* means a periodic review provided by the licensee for its employees on radiation safety aspects of well logging. The review may include, as appropriate, the results of internal inspections, new procedures or equipment, accidents or errors that have been observed, and opportunities for employees to ask safety questions.


*Sealed source* means any licensed material that is encased in a capsule designed to prevent leakage or escape of the licensed material.


*Source holder* means a housing or assembly into which a sealed source is placed to facilitate the handling and use of the source in well logging.


*Subsurface tracer study* means the release of unsealed license material or a substance labeled with licensed material in a single well for the purpose of tracing the movement or position of the material or substance in the well or adjacent formation.


*Surface casing for protecting fresh water aquifers* means a pipe or tube used as a lining in a well to isolate fresh water aquifers from the well.


*Temporary jobsite* means a place where licensed materials are present for the purpose of performing well logging or subsurface tracer studies.


*Tritium neutron generator target source* means a tritium source used within a neutron generator tube to produce neutrons for use in well logging applications. 


*Uranium sinker bar* means a weight containing depleted uranium used to pull a logging tool toward the bottom of a well.


*Well* means a drilled hole in which well logging may be performed. As used in this part, “well” includes drilled holes for the purpose of oil, gas, mineral, groundwater, or geological exploration.


*Well logging* means all operations involving the lowering and raising of measuring devices or tools which contain licensed material or are used to detect licensed materials in wells for the purpose of obtaining information about the well or adjacent formations which may be used in oil, gas, mineral, groundwater, or geological exploration.



---

[N] [52 FR 8234, Mar. 17, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 20344, Apr. 17, 2000]




