# § 63.1386   Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

(a) *Notifications.* As required by § 63.9(b) through (h) of this part, the owner or operator shall submit the following written initial notifications to the Administrator:


(1) Notification for an area source that subsequently increases its emissions such that the source is a major source subject to the standard;


(2) Notification that a source is subject to the standard, where the initial startup is before November 25, 2011.


(3) Notification that a source is subject to the standard, where the source is new or has been reconstructed the initial startup is after November 25, 2011, and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required;


(4) Notification of intention to construct a new affected source or reconstruct an affected source; of the date construction or reconstruction commenced; of the anticipated date of startup; of the actual date of startup, where the initial startup of a new or reconstructed source occurs after November 25, 2011, and for which an application for approval or construction or reconstruction is required (See § 63.9(b)(4) and (5));


(5) Notification of special compliance obligations;


(6) Notification of performance test; and (7) Notification of compliance status.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Records and reports for a failure to meet a standard.* (1) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet a standard, record the number of failures since the prior notification of compliance status. For each failure record the date, time, and duration of each failure.


(2) For each failure to meet a standard record and retain a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard for which the source failed to meet the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1382, including corrective actions to restore process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(4) If an affected unit fails to meet a standard, report such events in the notification of compliance status required by § 63.1386(a)(7). Report the number of failures to meet a standard since the prior notification. For each instance, report the date, time, and duration of each failure. For each failure the report must include a list of the affected units or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* (1) As required by § 63.10(b) of this part, the owner or operator shall maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) required by the general provisions and this subpart:


(i) The owner or operator must retain each record for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. The most recent 2 years of records must be retained at the facility. The remaining 3 years of records may be retained off site;


(ii) The owner or operator may retain records on microfilm, on a computer, on computer disks, on magnetic tape, or on microfiche; and


(iii) The owner or operator may report required information on paper or on a labeled computer disk using commonly available and EPA-compatible computer software.


(2) In addition to the general records required by § 63.10(b)(2) of this part, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information:


(i) Any bag leak detection system alarms, including the date and time of the alarm, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the alarm was corrected;


(ii) ESP parameter value(s) used to monitor ESP performance, including any period when the value(s) deviated from the established limit(s), the date and time of the deviation, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the deviation, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the deviation was corrected;


(iii) Air temperature above the molten glass in an uncontrolled cold top electric furnace, including any period when the temperature exceeded 120 °C (250 °F) at a location 46 to 61 centimeters (18 to 24 inches) above the molten glass surface, the date and time of the exceedance, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the exceedance, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the exceedance was corrected;


(iv) Uncontrolled glass-melting furnace (that is not a cold top electric furnace) parameter value(s) used to monitor furnace performance, including any period when the value(s) exceeded the established limit(s), the date and time of the exceedance, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the exceedance, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the exceedance was corrected;


(v) The formulation of each binder batch and the LOI and density for each product manufactured on a rotary spin manufacturing line or flame attenuation manufacturing line subject to the provisions of this subpart, and the free-formaldehyde and free-phenol contents of each resin shipment received and of each resin used in the binder formulation;


(vi) Process parameter level(s) for RS and FA manufacturing lines that use process modifications to comply with the emission limits, including any period when the parameter level(s) deviated from the established limit(s), the date and time of the deviation, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the deviation, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the deviation was corrected;


(vii) Scrubber pressure drop, scrubbing liquid flow rate, and any chemical additive (including chemical feed rate to the scrubber), including any period when a parameter level(s) deviated from the established limit(s), the date and time of the deviation, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the deviation, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the deviation was corrected;


(viii) Incinerator operating temperature and results of periodic inspection of incinerator components, including any period when the temperature fell below the established average or the inspection identified problems with the incinerator, the date and time of the problem, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the problem, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the problem was corrected;


(ix) Glass pull rate, including any period when the pull rate exceeded the average pull rate established during the performance test by more than 20 percent, the date and time of the exceedance, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the exceedance, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the exceedance was corrected.


(x) Records of your cullet sampling or records of inspections from cullet providers.


(xi) For each gas-fired glass-melting furnace that uses cullet, records of the daily average cullet percentage, and the 30-day rolling average percent cullet in the materials mix charged to the furnace. The initial daily average should be recorded on the compliance date and the first 30-day rolling average should be calculated 30 days after the compliance date.


(e) *Excess emissions report.* As required by § 63.10(e)(3)(v) of this part, the owner or operator shall report semiannually if measured emissions are in excess of the applicable standard or a monitored parameter deviates from the levels established during the performance test. The report shall contain the information specified in § 63.10(c) of this part as well as the additional records required by the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. When no deviations have occurred, the owner or operator shall submit a report stating that no excess emissions occurred during the reporting period.


(f) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required in this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, following the procedure specified in either paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*), you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*http://cdx.epa.gov/epa_home.asp*). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit performance test data in an electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, once the XML schema is available. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(g) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (f) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [64 FR 31709, June 14, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 20460, Apr. 20, 2006; 80 FR 45335, July 29, 2015; 82 FR 60885, Dec. 26, 2017]




