# § 21.7143   Nonduplication of educational assistance.

(a) *Payments of educational assistance shall not be duplicated.* (1) Except for receipt of a Montgomery GI Bill—Selected Reserve kicker provided under 10 U.S.C. 16131(i), a veteran is barred from concurrently receiving educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 and—


(i) 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 (Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E));


(ii) 38 U.S.C. chapter 32 (Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance);


(iii) 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 (Post-9/11 GI Bill);


(iv) 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 (Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance);


(v) 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 (Montgomery GI Bill—Selected Reserve);


(vi) 10 U.S.C. chapter 1607 (Reserve Educational Assistance Program);


(vii) 10 U.S.C. chapter 106a (Educational Assistance Test Program);


(viii) Section 903 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1981 (Pub. L. 96-342, 10 U.S.C. 2141 note);


(ix) The Hostage Relief Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-449, 5 U.S.C. 5561 note); or


(x) The Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-399).


(b) If an individual is eligible for benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 and one or more of the programs listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(x) of this section, he or she must specify under which program he or she is claiming benefits. The individual may choose to receive benefits under another program (other than 38 U.S.C. chapter 33) at any time, but not more than once in a calendar month. The individual may choose to receive benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 at any time, but not more than once during a certified term, quarter, or semester.


(c) *Nonduplication—Federal program.* Payment of educational assistance is prohibited to an otherwise eligible veteran or servicemember—


(1) For a unit course or courses which are being paid for entirely or partly by the Armed Forces during any period he or she is on active duty;


(2) For a unit course or courses which are being paid for entirely or partly by the Department of Health and Human Services during any period that he or she is on active duty with the Public Health Service; or


(3) For a unit course or courses which are being paid for entirely or partly by the United States under the Government Employees' Training Act.



---

[N] [53 FR 1757, Jan. 22, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 28389, July 11, 1990; 57 FR 15025, Apr. 24, 1992; 58 FR 46867, Sept. 3, 1993; 61 FR 20729, May 8, 1996. Redesignated at 68 FR 35180, June 12, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 14670, Mar. 31, 2009; 87 FR 8744, Feb. 16, 2022]




