# § 4006.7   Premium rate for certain terminated single-employer plans.

(a) The premium under this section (“termination premium”) applies to a DRA 2005 termination described in § 4007.13 of this chapter.


(b) The amount of the premium under this section that is payable with respect to each applicable 12-month period (as described in § 4007.13 of this chapter) is the number of participants in the plan, determined as of the day before the termination date, multiplied by the termination premium rate. In general, the termination premium rate is $1,250. However, the termination premium rate is $2,500 for an “eligible plan” under section 402(c)(1) of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (dealing with certain plans of commercial passenger airlines and airline catering services) while an election under section 402(a)(1) of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (dealing with alternative funding schedules) is in effect for the plan if the plan terminates during the five-year period beginning on the first day of the first applicable plan year (as defined in section 402(c)(2) of that Act) with respect to the plan, unless the Secretary of Labor determines that the plan terminated as a result of extraordinary circumstances such as a terrorist attack or other similar event.


(c) The premium under this section is in addition to any other premium under this part.


(d) See § 4007.13 of this chapter for further rules about termination premiums.



---

[N] [72 FR 71229, Dec. 17, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 13561, Mar. 11, 2014]




