# ยง 300.27   Incidental catch and tuna retention requirements.

(a) *Tuna retention requirements for purse seine vessels.* Bigeye, skipjack, and yellowfin tuna caught in the Convention Area by a fishing vessel of the United States of class size 4-6 (more than 182 metric tons carrying capacity) using purse seine gear must be retained on board and landed, except for fish deemed unfit for human consumption for reasons other than size. This requirement shall not apply to the last set of a trip if the available well capacity is insufficient to accommodate the entire catch.




(b) *Release requirements for fish species on purse seine vessels.* All purse seine vessels must release, as soon as practicable after being identified on board the vessel during the brailing operation, all billfish, rays (not including mobulid rays, which are subject to paragraph (i) of this section), dorado (*Coryphaena hippurus*), and other fish species. This requirement does not apply to tuna or tuna-like species, or to other fish retained for consumption aboard the vessel. Sharks caught in the IATTC Convention Area and that are not retained for consumption aboard the vessel must be released according to the requirements in paragraph (k) of this section. Tuna caught in the IATTC Convention Area are subject to the retention requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.








(c) *Sea turtle handling and release.* All purse seine vessels must apply special sea turtle handling and release requirements, as follows:


(1) Whenever a sea turtle is sighted in the net, a speedboat shall be stationed close to the point where the net is lifted out of the water to assist in release of the sea turtle;


(2) If a sea turtle is entangled in the net, net roll shall stop as soon as the sea turtle comes out of the water and shall not resume until the sea turtle has been disentangled and released;


(3) If, in spite of the measures taken under paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, a sea turtle is accidentally brought on board the vessel alive and active, the vessel's engine shall be disengaged and the sea turtle shall be released as quickly as practicable;


(4) If a sea turtle brought on board under paragraph (c)(3) of this section is alive but comatose or inactive, the resuscitation procedures described in ยง 223.206(d)(1)(i)(B) of this title shall be used before release of the turtle.


(d) *Oceanic whitetip shark restrictions.* The crew, operator, or owner of a fishing vessel of the United States used to fish for HMS in the Convention Area shall be prohibited from retaining on board, transshipping, landing, storing, selling, or offering for sale any part or whole carcass of an oceanic whitetip shark (*Carcharhinus longimanus*) and must release unharmed, to the extent practicable, all oceanic whitetip sharks when brought alongside the vessel.




(e) *Silky shark restrictions for purse seine and longline vessels.* The crew, operator, and owner of a commercial purse seine or longline fishing vessel of the United States used to fish for tuna or tuna-like species is prohibited from retaining on board, transshipping, storing, or landing any part or whole carcass of a silky shark (*Carcharhinus falciformis*) that is caught in the IATTC Convention Area, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) *Exception for silky shark caught and frozen on purse seine vessels.* In the case of a purse seine vessel operating in the IATTC Convention Area that catches a silky shark that is not seen during fishing operations and is delivered into the vessel hold, the silky shark may be stored on board and landed, but the vessel owner or operator must surrender the whole silky shark to the responsible government authority present at the point of landing. In U.S. ports the responsible governmental authority is the NOAA Office of Law Enforcement divisional office nearest to the port, or other authorized personnel. If no governmental authorities are available, the whole silky shark surrendered must not be sold or bartered but must be donated for purposes of domestic human consumption consistent with relevant laws and policies. The vessel owner or operator shall report these incidences to the IATTC Secretariat by recording them in the IATTC Regional Purse Seine Logbook, or another form identified by NMFS.




(g) *Whale shark restrictions for purse seine vessels.* Owners, operators, and crew of fishing vessels of the United States commercially fishing for tuna in the Convention Area may not set or attempt to set a purse seine on or around a whale shark (*Rhincodon typus*) if the animal is sighted prior to the commencement of the set or the attempted set.


(h) *Whale shark release.* The crew, operator, and owner of a fishing vessel of the United States commercially fishing for tuna in the Convention Area must release as soon as possible, any whale shark that is encircled in a purse seine net, and must ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to ensure its safe release. No whale shark may be towed out of a purse seine net (*e.g.,* using towing ropes).


(i) *Mobulid ray restrictions.* The crew, operator, and owner of a U.S. commercial fishing vessel is prohibited from retaining on board, transshipping, storing, landing, selling, or offering for sale any part or whole carcass of a mobulid ray that is caught in the IATTC Convention Area, except as provided in the following sentence. In the case of any mobulid ray caught in the IATTC Convention Area on an observed purse seine vessel that is not seen during fishing operations and is delivered into the vessel hold, the mobulid ray may be stored on board and landed, but the vessel owner or operator must show the whole mobulid ray to the on-board observer at the point of landing for recording purposes, and then dispose of the mobulid ray at the direction of the responsible government authority. In U.S. ports the responsible governmental authority is the NOAA Office of Law Enforcement divisional office nearest to the port, or other authorized personnel. Mobulid rays that are caught and landed in this manner may not be sold or bartered, but may be donated for purposes of domestic human consumption consistent with relevant laws and policies.


(j) *Mobulid ray handling and release.* The crew, operator, and owner of a U.S. commercial fishing vessel must promptly release unharmed, to the extent practicable, any mobulid ray (whether live or dead) caught in the IATTC Convention Area as soon as it is seen in the net, on the hook, or on the deck, without compromising the safety of any persons. If a mobulid ray is live when caught, the crew, operator, and owner of a U.S. commercial fishing vessel must use the release procedures described in the following two paragraphs.


(1) No mobulid ray may be gaffed, no mobulid ray may be lifted by the gill slits or spiracles or by using bind wire against or inserted through the body, and no holes may be punched through the bodies of mobulid ray (*e.g.,* to pass a cable through for lifting the mobulid ray).


(2) Applicable to purse seine operations, large mobulid rays must be brailed out of the net by directly releasing the mobulid ray from the brailer into the ocean. Large mobulid rays that cannot be released without compromising the safety of persons or the mobulid ray before being landed on deck, must be returned to the water as soon as possible, either utilizing a ramp from the deck connecting to an opening on the side of the boat, or lowered with a sling or net, using a crane if available. The minimum size for the sling or net must be at least 25 feet in diameter.


(k) *Shark handling and release requirements.* (1) For purse seine vessels: the crew, operator, or owner of a U.S. commercial purse seine fishing vessel must promptly release unharmed, to the extent practicable, any shark (whether live or dead) caught in the IATTC Convention Area, as soon as it is seen in the net or on the deck, without compromising the safety of any persons. If a shark is live when caught, the crew, operator, or owner must follow these release procedures:


(i) Sharks must be released out of the purse seine net by directly releasing the shark from the brailer into the ocean. Sharks that cannot be released without compromising the safety of persons or the sharks before being landed on deck must be returned to the water as soon as possible, either utilizing a ramp from the deck connecting to an opening on the side of the boat or through escape hatches. If ramps or escape hatches are not available, the sharks must be lowered with a sling or cargo net, using a crane or similar equipment, if available.


(ii) No shark may be gaffed or hooked, lifted by the head, tail, gill slits or spiracles, or lifted by using bind wire against or inserted through the body, and no holes may be punched through the bodies of sharks (*e.g.,* to pass a cable through for lifting the shark).


(2) For longline vessels: the crew, operator, or owner of a U.S. commercial longline fishing vessel must promptly release unharmed, to the extent practicable, any shark (whether live or dead) caught in the IATTC Convention Area that is not retained, as soon as it is seen on the line, without compromising the safety of any persons. If a shark is live when seen on the line, the crew, operator, or owner must follow these release procedures:


(i) Leave the shark in the water.


(ii) Use a line clipper meeting the minimum design standards in paragraph (m) of this section to cut the branchline so that less than 1 meter (or 3.3 ft) of line remains on the animal. If this is not possible without compromising the safety of any persons, cut the branchline as close to the hook as possible.




(l) *Shark line prohibition for longline vessels.* Any U.S. longline vessel used to fish for tuna or swordfish is prohibited from using any shark line in the IATTC Convention Area.


(m) *Possession and use of required mitigation gear.* (1) NMFS has established minimum design standards for line clippers. At least one line clipper meeting these design standards must be present onboard any longline vessel fishing in the IATTC Convention Area. The minimum design standards are as follows:


(i) The line clipper must have a protected cutting blade. The cutting blade must be curved, recessed, contained in a holder, or otherwise afforded some protection to minimize direct contact of the cutting surface with animals or users of the cutting blade.


(ii) The cutting blade edge must be capable of cutting 2.0-2.1 mm monofilament line and nylon or polypropylene multi-strand material commonly known as braided mainline or tarred mainline.


(iii) The line clipper must have an extended reach handle or pole of at least 6 ft (1.82 m) for the cutting blade.


(iv) The cutting blade must be securely fastened to the extended reach handle or pole to ensure effective deployment and use.


(2) [Reserved]


(n) *Prohibition on shark finning.* Vessel owners and operators must comply with regulations governing the harvest, possession, landing, purchase, and sale of shark fins found at 50 CFR part 600, subpart N.











---

[N] [81 FR 50403, Aug. 1, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 86970, Dec. 2, 2016; 82 FR 56178, Nov. 28, 2017; 84 FR 70048, Dec. 20, 2019; 85 FR 29669, May 18, 2020; 87 FR 40741, July 8, 2022; 89 FR 54726, July 2, 2024]




