# § 71.11   National fish hatcheries open for hunting.

The following hatcheries are open for hunting as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional hatchery-specific regulations.


(a) *Iron River National Fish Hatchery*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow duck, goose, coot, rail, snipe, woodcock, dove, and crow hunting on designated areas of the hatchery.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow pheasant, bobwhite quail, ruffed and sharp-tailed grouse, Hungarian partridge, rabbit/hare, squirrel, coyote, fox, bobcat, raccoon, opossum, skunk, weasel, and woodchuck hunting on designated areas of the hatchery.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow white-tailed deer, turkey, and bear hunting on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must label tree stands and ground blinds with the owner's State hunting license number. The label must be readable from the ground.


(ii) You may place tree stands and ground blinds on the hatchery only from September 1 to December 31 annually.


(b) *Jordan River National Fish Hatchery*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of woodcock, dove, duck, goose, rail, snipe, coot, and crow on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow entry into the hatchery 1 hour before legal sunrise and require hunters to leave the hatchery no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit shooting on or over any hatchery road within 50 feet (15 meters) from the centerline.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit/hare, squirrel, coyote, fox, bobcat, raccoon, opossum, skunk, weasel, and woodchuck on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of bear, white-tailed deer, and turkey on designated areas of the hatchery and subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow the use of portable stands and blinds for hunting, and hunters must remove them at the end of each day.


(iii) You must label tree stands with the owner's Department of Natural Resources sportcard number. The label, printed in legible English that can be easily read from the ground, must be affixed to the stand.


(c) *Leadville National Fish Hatchery*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the hatchery.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the hatchery.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must label tree stands and ground blinds with the owner's State hunting license number. The label must be readable from the ground.


(ii) You may place tree stands and ground blinds on the refuge only from September 1 to December 31 annually.


(4) *Sport fishing.* See § 71.12(l) for hatchery-specific fishing regulations for this hatchery.


(d) *Leavenworth National Fish Hatchery*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs for hunting in accordance with State of Washington hunting regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs for hunting in accordance with State of Washington hunting regulations.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs for hunting in accordance with State of Washington hunting regulations.


(4) *Sport fishing.* See § 71.12(m) for hatchery-specific fishing regulations for this hatchery.


(e) *Little White Salmon National Fish Hatchery*—(1) *Migratory bird hunting.* We allow hunting of crow on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of nonliving natural materials. Hunters must remove all equipment at the end of each day's hunt.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of bobcat, grouse, partridge, and porcupine on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of bear, elk, black-tailed deer, mule deer, and wild turkey on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* See § 71.12(n) for hatchery-specific fishing regulations for this hatchery.


(f) *Southwest Native Aquatic Resources and Recovery Center*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of sandhill crane, light and dark goose, duck, merganser, coot, mourning and white-winged dove, and band-tailed pigeon on designated areas of the center.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow the hunting of Eurasian collared-dove; dusky (blue) grouse; pheasant; scaled quail; and Abert's, red, gray, and fox squirrel on designated areas of the center.


(3) [Reserved]


(g) *Spring Creek National Fish Hatchery*—(1) *Migratory bird hunting.* We allow hunting of crow on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of nonliving natural materials. Hunters must remove all equipment at the end of each day's hunt.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of bobcat, grouse, partridge, and porcupine on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of bear, elk, black-tailed deer, mule deer, and wild turkey on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* See § 71.12(p) for hatchery-specific fishing regulations for this hatchery.



---

[N] [85 FR 54145, Aug. 31, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 48883, Aug. 31, 2021]




