# § 63.9810   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements specified in Table 7 to this subpart. 


(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements specified in Table 8 to this subpart. 


(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each work practice standard specified in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements specified in Table 9 to this subpart. 


(d) For each affected source that is equipped with an add-on APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each operating limit established as required in § 63.9800(i)(3) according to the methods specified in your approved alternative monitoring methods request as described in § 63.9800(i)(2). 


(e) Before May 19, 2022, you must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and each operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. This includes periods of SSM. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.9814. On or after May 19, 2022, you must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and each operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.9814.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) Before May 19, 2022, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1) and your OM&M plan. The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On or after May 19, 2022, consistent with §§ 63.9792(b) and 63.9800(d), deviations are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.9792(b) and your OM&M plan. The Administrator will determine whether deviations are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.9792(b).




(f) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart for visible emissions (VE) from clay refractory products kilns that are uncontrolled or equipped with DLA, dry lime injection fabric filter (DIFF), dry lime scrubber/fabric filter (DLS/FF) or other dry control device as described in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) *VE testing.* Monitoring VE at each kiln stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Perform daily VE observations of each kiln stack according to the procedures of EPA Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must conduct the EPA Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each EPA Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.


(ii) If VE are observed during any daily test conducted using EPA Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must promptly conduct an opacity test, according to the procedures of EPA Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4. If opacity greater than 10 percent is observed, you must initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan.


(iii) You may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing from daily to weekly for a kiln stack if one of the conditions in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met.


(A) No VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily EPA Method 22 tests for any kiln stack; or


(B) No opacity greater than 10 percent is observed during any of the EPA Method 9 tests for any kiln stack.


(iv) If VE are observed during any weekly test and opacity greater than 10 percent is observed in the subsequent EPA Method 9 test, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan, resume testing of that kiln stack following EPA Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, on a daily basis, as described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, and maintain that schedule until one of the conditions in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met, at which time you may again decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to a weekly basis.


(v) If greater than 10 percent opacity is observed during any test conducted using EPA Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in § 63.9814.


(2) *Alternative to VE testing.* In lieu of meeting the requirements under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, you may conduct a PM test at least once every year following the initial performance test, according to the procedures of EPA Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, and the provisions of § 63.9800(e) and (f).



---

[N] [68 FR 18747, Apr. 16, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20471, Apr. 20, 2006; 86 FR 66065, Nov. 19, 2021]




