# ยง 1003.26   In absentia hearings.

(a) In any exclusion proceeding before an Immigration Judge in which the applicant fails to appear, the Immigration Judge shall conduct an *in absentia* hearing if the Immigration Judge is satisfied that notice of the time and place of the proceeding was provided to the applicant on the record at a prior hearing or by written notice to the applicant or to the applicant's counsel of record on the charging document or at the most recent address in the Record of Proceeding.


(b) In any deportation proceeding before an Immigration Judge in which the respondent fails to appear, the Immigration Judge shall order the respondent deported *in absentia* if: (1) The Service establishes by clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence that the respondent is deportable; and (2) the Immigration Judge is satisfied that written notice of the time and place of the proceedings and written notice of the consequences of failure to appear, as set forth in section 242B(c) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1252b(c)), were provided to the respondent in person or were provided to the respondent or the respondent's counsel of record, if any, by certified mail.


(c) In any removal proceeding before an Immigration Judge in which the alien fails to appear, the Immigration Judge shall order the alien removed *in absentia* if:


(1) The Service establishes by clear, unequivocal, and convincing evidence that the alien is removable; and


(2) The Service establishes by clear, unequivocal, and convincing evidence that written notice of the time and place of proceedings and written notice of the consequences of failure to appear were provided to the alien or the alien's counsel of record.


(d) Written notice to the alien shall be considered sufficient for purposes of this section if it was provided at the most recent address provided by the alien. If the respondent fails to provide his or her address as required under ยง 1003.15(d), no written notice shall be required for an Immigration Judge to proceed with an *in absentia* hearing. This paragraph shall not apply in the event that the Immigration Judge waives the appearance of an alien under ยง 1003.25.



---

[N] [59 FR 1899, Jan. 13, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 10334, Mar. 6, 1997; 62 FR 15362, Apr. 1, 1997]




