# § 982.633   Homeownership option: Continued assistance requirements; Family obligations.

(a) *Occupancy of home.* Homeownership assistance may only be paid while the family is residing in the home. If the family moves out of the home, the PHA may not continue homeownership assistance after the month when the family moves out. The family or lender is not required to refund to the PHA the homeownership assistance for the month when the family moves out. 


(b) *Family obligations.* The family must comply with the following obligations. 


(1) *Ongoing counseling.* To the extent required by the PHA, the family must attend and complete ongoing homeownership and housing counseling. 


(2) *Compliance with mortgage.* The family must comply with the terms of any mortgage securing debt incurred to purchase the home (or any refinancing of such debt). 


(3) *Prohibition against conveyance or transfer of home.* (i) So long as the family is receiving homeownership assistance, use and occupancy of the home is subject to § 982.551(h) and (i). 


(ii) The family may grant a mortgage on the home for debt incurred to finance purchase of the home or any refinancing of such debt. 


(iii) Upon death of a family member who holds, in whole or in part, title to the home or ownership of cooperative membership shares for the home, homeownership assistance may continue pending settlement of the decedent's estate, notwithstanding transfer of title by operation of law to the decedent's executor or legal representative, so long as the home is solely occupied by remaining family members in accordance with § 982.551(h). 


(4) *Supplying required information.* (i) The family must supply required information to the PHA in accordance with § 982.551(b). 


(ii) In addition to other required information, the family must supply any information as required by the PHA or HUD concerning: 


(A) Any mortgage or other debt incurred to purchase the home, and any refinancing of such debt (including information needed to determine whether the family has defaulted on the debt, and the nature of any such default), and information on any satisfaction or payment of the mortgage debt; 


(B) Any sale or other transfer of any interest in the home; or


(C) The family's homeownership expenses. 


(5) *Notice of move-out.* The family must notify the PHA before the family moves out of the home. 


(6) *Notice of mortgage default.* The family must notify the PHA if the family defaults on a mortgage securing any debt incurred to purchase the home. 


(7) *Prohibition on ownership interest on second residence.* During the time the family receives homeownership assistance under this subpart, no family member may have any ownership interest in any other residential property. 


(8) *Additional PHA requirements.* The PHA may establish additional requirements for continuation of homeownership assistance for the family (for example, a requirement for post-purchase homeownership counseling or for periodic unit inspections while the family is receiving homeownership assistance). The family must comply with any such requirements. 


(9) *Other family obligations.* The family must comply with the obligations of a participant family described in § 982.551. However, the following provisions do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option: § 982.551(c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (j). 


(c) *Statement of homeowner obligations.* Before commencement of homeownership assistance, the family must execute a statement of family obligations in the form prescribed by HUD. In the statement, the family agrees to comply with all family obligations under the homeownership option. 




