# § 21.34   Authorization—natural resource agency employees.

(a) *Authorized activities.* While performing official duties, employees of Federal, State, Territorial, and federally recognized Tribal natural resource agencies may conduct the following activities without a permit:


(1) *Salvage.* Natural resource agency employees may salvage migratory bird specimens found dead in accordance with the salvage authorization (§ 21.16).


(2) *Exhibition use.* Natural resource agency employees may possess migratory bird specimens for conservation education programs in accordance with the authorizations for exhibition use of specimens (§ 21.18) and the exhibition use of eagle specimens (50 CFR 22.15). Additional authorization under this part 21 and part 22 of this subchapter B is required to possess live birds, viable eggs, or in-use nests for exhibition use.


(3) *Transport.* Natural resource agency employees may transport sick, injured, or orphaned birds in accordance with § 21.76(a). If transport is not feasible within 24 hours, employees must follow the instructions of a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator to provide supportive care, retain in an appropriate enclosure for up to 72 hours, or euthanize the birds.


(4) *Relocate.* Natural resource agency employees may trap and relocate migratory birds, nests, eggs, and chicks in accordance with § 21.14. Employees are authorized to conduct these activities either to remove birds from structures or whenever birds or humans are at risk if birds are not relocated. Additional authorization is required for bald eagles, golden eagles, or migratory birds on the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife (50 CFR 17.11).


(b) *Volunteers and contractors.* Individuals under the direct supervision of an agency employee (*e.g.,* volunteers or agents under contract to the agency) may, within the scope of their official duties, conduct the activities authorized by this authorization. An authorized individual must have a designation letter from the agency describing the activities that may be conducted by the individual and any date and location restrictions that apply.


(c) *Official capacity.* Employees and other authorized individuals must act within their official duties, training, and experience when conducting authorized activities, especially when handling live birds. Live birds must always be cared for under humane and healthful conditions as defined in § 21.6 and § 22.6 of this subchapter B.


(d) *Records.* Agencies must keep records for 5 years of activities conducted under paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) of this section. The records must include the species and number of birds, the type of activity, date, and disposition.







---

[N] [89 FR 107041, Dec. 31, 2024]










