# § 627.3   Grounds for appointing FCSIC as conservator or receiver.

(a) FCA may, in its discretion, appoint a conservator or receiver of a Farm Credit institution if FCA determines that one or more of the grounds in paragraph (b) of this section exists. FCA must appoint FCSIC as conservator or receiver of a Farm Credit institution. To the extent practicable, FCA will consult with FCSIC before taking a pre-resolution action that may result in a conservatorship or receivership of a Farm Credit institution.


(b) The grounds for appointing FCSIC as a conservator or receiver of a System institution are:


(1) The institution is insolvent because the value of its assets is less than its obligations to creditors and others, including its members. For the purpose of determining insolvency, “obligations to members” does not include stock or allocated equites held by current or former borrowers.


(2) There has been a substantial dissipation of assets or earnings of the institution due to the violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or one or more unsafe or unsound practice(s).


(3) The institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business, including having insufficient capital levels or otherwise. For the purpose of this part, “unsafe or unsound condition” includes, but is not limited to, the following conditions:


(i) For associations, a default by the association of one or more terms of its general financing agreement with its funding bank that the Farm Credit Administration determines to be a material default;


(ii) For all institutions, permanent capital of less than one-half the minimum required level for the institution; or


(iii) For associations, stock impairment.


(4) The institution has committed a willful violation of a final cease and desist order issued by the Farm Credit Administration Board.


(5) The institution is concealing its books, papers, records, or assets, or is refusing to submit its books, papers, records, assets, or other material relating to the affairs of the institution for inspection to any examiner or to any lawful agent of the Farm Credit Administration Board.


(6) A Farm Credit bank is unable to make a timely payment of principal or interest on any insured obligation(s) defined in section 5.51(3) of the Act issued by the bank individually, or on which it is primarily liable.






