# § 63.649   Alternative means of emission limitation: Connectors in gas/vapor service and light liquid service.

(a) If an owner or operator elects to monitor valves according to the provisions of § 63.648(c)(2)(ii), the owner or operator shall implement one of the connector monitoring programs specified in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section. 


(b) *Random 200 connector alternative.* The owner or operator shall implement a random sampling program for accessible connectors of 2.0 inches nominal diameter or greater. The program does not apply to inaccessible or unsafe-to-monitor connectors, as defined in § 63.174 of subpart H. The sampling program shall be implemented source-wide. 


(1) Within the first 12 months after the phase III compliance date specified in § 63.640(h), a sample of 200 connectors shall be randomly selected and monitored using Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. 


(2) The instrument reading that defines a leak is 1,000 parts per million. 


(3) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. 


(4) If a leak is detected, the connector shall be monitored for leaks within the first 3 months after its repair. 


(5) After conducting the initial survey required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct subsequent monitoring of connectors at the frequencies specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(iv) of this section. 


(i) If the percentage leaking connectors is 2.0 percent or greater, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once every 6 months. 


(ii) If the percentage leaking connectors is 1.0 percent or greater but less than 2.0 percent, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once per year. 


(iii) If the percentage leaking connectors is 0.5 percent or greater but less than 1.0 percent, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once every 2 years. 


(iv) If the percentage leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent, the owner or operator shall survey a random sample of 200 connectors once every 4 years. 


(6) Physical tagging of the connectors to indicate that they are subject to the monitoring provisions is not required. Connectors may be identified by the area or length of pipe and need not be individually identified. 


(c) *Connector inspection alternative.* The owner or operator shall implement a program to monitor all accessible connectors in gas/vapor service that are 2.0 inches (nominal diameter) or greater and inspect all accessible connectors in light liquid service that are 2 inches (nominal diameter) or greater as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(7) of this section. The program does not apply to inaccessible or unsafe-to-monitor connectors. 


(1) Within 12 months after the phase III compliance date specified in § 63.640(h), all connectors in gas/vapor service shall be monitored using Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60 appendix A. The instrument reading that defines a leak is 1,000 parts per million. 


(2) All connectors in light liquid service shall be inspected for leaks. A leak is detected if liquids are observed to be dripping at a rate greater than three drops per minute. 


(3) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. 


(4) If a leak is detected, connectors in gas/vapor service shall be monitored for leaks within the first 3 months after repair. Connectors in light liquid service shall be inspected for indications of leaks within the first 3 months after repair. A leak is detected if liquids are observed to be dripping at a rate greater than three drops per minute. 


(5) After conducting the initial survey required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct subsequent monitoring at the frequencies specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (c)(5)(iii) of this section. 


(i) If the percentage leaking connectors is 2.0 percent or greater, the owner or operator shall monitor or inspect, as applicable, the connectors once per year. 


(ii) If the percentage leaking connectors is 1.0 percent or greater but less than 2.0 percent, the owner or operator shall monitor or inspect, as applicable, the connectors once every 2 years.


(iii) If the percentage leaking connectors is less than 1.0 percent, the owner or operator shall monitor or inspect, as applicable, the connectors once every 4 years. 


(6) The percentage leaking connectors shall be calculated for connectors in gas/vapor service and for connectors in light liquid service. The data for the two groups of connectors shall not be pooled for the purpose of determining the percentage leaking connectors. 


(i) The percentage leaking connectors shall be calculated as follows: 


(ii) Nonrepairable connectors shall be included in the calculation of percentage leaking connectors the first time the connector is identified as leaking and nonrepairable. Otherwise, a number of nonrepairable connectors up to a maximum of 1 percent per year of the total number of connectors in organic HAP service up to a maximum of 3 percent may be excluded from calculation of percentage leaking connectors for subsequent monitoring periods. 


(iii) If the number of nonrepairable connectors exceeds 3 percent of the total number of connectors in organic HAP service, the number of nonrepairable connectors exceeding 3 percent of the total number shall be included in the calculation of the percentage leaking connectors. 


(7) Physical tagging of the connectors to indicate that they are subject to the monitoring provisions is not required. Connectors may be identified by the area or length of pipe and need not be individually identified. 


(d) *Subpart H program.* The owner or operator shall implement a program to comply with the provisions in § 63.174 of this part. 


(e) Delay of repair of connectors for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair is not technically feasible by normal repair techniques without a process unit shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next process unit shutdown. 


(1) Delay of repair is allowed for equipment that is isolated from the process and that does not remain in organic HAP service. 


(2) Delay of repair for connectors is also allowed if: 


(i) The owner or operator determines that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and 


(ii) When repair procedures are accomplished, the purged material would be collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device. 


(f) Any connector that is designated as an unsafe-to-repair connector is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4), (c)(3) and (c)(4), or (d) of this section if: 


(1) The owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4), (c)(3) and (c)(4), of this section; or 


(2) The connector will be repaired before the end of the next scheduled process unit shutdown. 


(g) The owner or operator shall maintain records to document that the connector monitoring or inspections have been conducted as required and to document repair of leaking connectors as applicable.



---

[N] [60 FR 43260, Aug. 18, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 75245, Dec. 1, 2015]




