# § 453.1   Definitions.

(a) *Alternative container.* An “alternative container” is an unfinished wood box or other non-metal receptacle or enclosure, without ornamentation or a fixed interior lining, which is designed for the encasement of human remains and which is made of fiberboard, pressed-wood, composition materials (with or without an outside covering) or like materials.


(b) *Cash advance item.* A “cash advance item” is any item of service or merchandise described to a purchaser as a “cash advance,” “accommodation,” “cash disbursement,” or similar term. A cash advance item is also any item obtained from a third party and paid for by the funeral provider on the purchaser's behalf. Cash advance items may include, but are not limited to: cemetery or crematory services; pallbearers; public transportation; clergy honoraria; flowers; musicians or singers; nurses; obituary notices; gratuities and death certificates.


(c) *Casket.* A “casket” is a rigid container which is designed for the encasement of human remains and which is usually constructed of wood, metal, fiberglass, plastic, or like material, and ornamented and lined with fabric.


(d) *Commission.* “Commission” refers to the Federal Trade Commission.


(e) *Cremation.* “Cremation” is a heating process which incinerates human remains.


(f) *Crematory.* A “crematory” is any person, partnership or corporation that performs cremation and sells funeral goods.


(g) *Direct cremation.* A “direct cremation” is a disposition of human remains by cremation, without formal viewing, visitation, or ceremony with the body present.


(h) *Funeral goods.* “Funeral goods” are the goods which are sold or offered for sale directly to the public for use in connection with funeral services.


(i) *Funeral provider.* A “funeral provider” is any person, partnership or corporation that sells or offers to sell funeral goods and funeral services to the public.


(j) *Funeral services.* “Funeral services” are any services which may be used to:


(1) Care for and prepare deceased human bodies for burial, cremation or other final disposition; and


(2) arrange, supervise or conduct the funeral ceremony or the final disposition of deceased human bodies.


(k) *Immediate burial.* An “immediate burial” is a disposition of human remains by burial, without formal viewing, visitation, or ceremony with the body present, except for a graveside service.


(l) *Memorial service.* A “memorial service” is a ceremony commemorating the deceased without the body present.


(m) *Funeral ceremony.* A “funeral ceremony” is a service commemorating the deceased with the body present.


(n) *Outer burial container.* An “outer burial container” is any container which is designed for placement in the grave around the casket including, but not limited to, containers commonly known as burial vaults, grave boxes, and grave liners.


(o) *Person.* A “person” is any individual, partnership, corporation, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity.


(p) *Services of funeral director and staff.* The “services of funeral director and staff” are the basic services, not to be included in prices of other categories in § 453.2(b)(4), that are furnished by a funeral provider in arranging any funeral, such as conducting the arrangements conference, planning the funeral, obtaining necessary permits, and placing obituary notices.




