# § 701.5   Policy on authorized use of the Library name, seal, or logo.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is three-fold:


(1) To assure that the Library of Congress is properly and appropriately identified and credited as a source of materials in publications.


(2) To assure that the name or logo of the Library of Congress, or any unit thereof, is used only with the prior approval of the Librarian of Congress or his designee; and


(3) To assure that the seal of the Library of Congress is used only on official documents or publications of the Library.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) For the purposes of this part, publication means any tangible expression of words or thoughts in any form or format, including print, sound recording, television, optical disc, software, online delivery, or other technology now known or hereinafter created. It includes the whole range of tangible products from simple signs, posters, pamphlets, and brochures to books, television productions, and movies.


(2) *Internal Library publication* means a publication over which any unit of the Library has complete or substantial control or responsibility.


(3) *Cooperative publications* are those in which the Library is a partner with the publisher by terms of a cooperative publishing agreement.


(4) *Commercial publications* are those known or likely to involve subsequent mass distribution, whether by a for-profit or not-for-profit organization or individual, which involve a cooperative agreement. A commercial publication can also include a significant number of LC references and is also approved by the LC office that entered into a formal agreement. Noncommercial publications are those which are produced by non-commercial entities.


(5) *Internet sites* are those on-line entities, both commercial and non-commercial, that have links to the Library's site.


(6) *Library logo* refers to any official symbol of the Library or any entity thereof and includes any design officially approved by the Librarian of Congress for use by Library officials.


(7) *Seal* refers to any statutorily recognized seal.


(c) *Credit and recognition policy.* (1) The name “Library of Congress,” or any abbreviation or subset such as “Copyright Office” or “Congressional Research Service,” thereof, is used officially to represent the Library of Congress and its programs, projects, functions, activities, or elements thereof. The use of the Library's name, explicitly or implicitly to endorse a product or service, or materials in any publication is prohibited, except as provided for in this part.


(2) The Library of Congress seal symbolizes the Library's authority and standing as an official agency of the U.S. Government. As such, it shall be displayed only on official documents or publications of the Library. The seal of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board shall be affixed to documents of that body as prescribed by the Librarian of Congress. The seal of the National Film Preservation Board shall be affixed to documents of that body as prescribed by the Librarian of Congress. Procedures governing the use of any Library of Congress logo or symbol are set out below. Any person or organization that uses the Library Seal or the Seal of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board in a manner other than as authorized by the provisions of this section shall be subject to the criminal provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1017.


(3) Questions regarding the appropriateness of the use of any Library logos or symbols, or the use of the Library's name, shall be referred to the Public Affairs Officer.


(4) Cooperative Ventures. (i) Individual, commercial enterprises or non-commercial entities with whom the Library has a cooperative agreement to engage in cooperative efforts shall be instructed regarding Library policy on credit, recognition, and endorsement by the officer or manager with whom they are dealing.


(ii) Ordinarily, the Library logo should appear in an appropriate and suitable location on all cooperative publications. The Library requires that a credit line accompany reproductions of images from its collections and reflect the nature of the relationship such as “published in association with * * *.”


(iii) The size, location, and other attributes of the logo and credit line should be positioned in such a way that they do not imply Library endorsement of the publication unless such endorsement is expressly intended by the Library, as would be the case in cooperative activities. Use of the Library name or logo in any context suggesting an explicit or implicit endorsement may be approved in only those instances where the Library has sufficient control over the publication to make changes necessary to reflect Library expertise.


(iv) Library officers working on cooperative projects shall notify all collaborators of Library policy in writing if the collaboration is arranged through an exchange of correspondence. All uses of the Library of Congress's name, seal or logo on promotional materials must be approved by the Public Affairs Officer, in consultation with the Office of the General Counsel, in advance. A statement of Library policy shall be incorporated into the agreement if the terms of the collaboration are embodied in any written instrument, such as a contract or letter of understanding. The statement could read as follows:


(d) *Noncommercial Users.* Library officers assisting individuals who are noncommercial users of Library resources shall encourage them to extend the customary professional courtesy of acknowledging their sources in publications, including films, television, and radio, and to use approved credit lines.


(1) Each product acquired for resale by the Library that involves new labeling or packaging shall bear a Library logo and shall contain information describing the relevance of the item to the Library or its collections. Items not involving new packaging shall be accompanied by a printed description of the Library and its mission, with Library logo, as well as the rationale for operating a gift shop program in a statement such as, “Proceeds from gift shop sales are used to support the Library collections and to further the Library's educational mission.”


(2) Electronic Users. Links to other sites from the Library of Congress's site should adhere to the Appropriate Use Policy for External Linking in the Internet Policies and Procedures Handbook. Requests for such linkage must be submitted to the Public Affairs Office for review and approval.


(3) Office Systems Services shall make available copies of the Library seal or logo in a variety of sizes and formats, including digital versions, if use has been approved by the Public Affairs Officer, in consultation with the Office of General Counsel.


(4) Each service unit head shall be responsible for devising the most appropriate way to carry out and enforce this policy in consultation with the General Counsel and the Public Affairs Officer.


(e) *Prohibitions and Enforcement.* (1) All violations, or suspected violations, of this part, shall be reported to the Office of the General Counsel as soon as they become known. Whoever, except as permitted by laws of the U.S., or with the written permission of the Librarian of Congress or his designee, falsely advertises or otherwise represents by any device whatsoever that his or its business, product, or service has been in any way endorsed, authorized, or approved by the Library of Congress shall be subject to criminal penalties pursuant to law.


(2) Whenever the General Counsel has determined that any person or organization is engaged in or about to engage in an act or practice that constitutes or will constitute conduct prohibited by this part or a violation of any requirement of this part, the General Counsel shall take whatever steps are necessary, including seeking the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice, to enforce the provisions of the applicable statutes and to seek all means of redress authorized by law, including both civil and criminal penalties.








