# § 1605.1   Definitions.

(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1. 


(b) As used in this part: 


*“As of” date* means the date on which a TSP contribution or other transaction entailing acquisition of investment fund shares should have taken place. Employing agencies use this date on payment records to report makeup or late contributions or late loan payments. 


*Attributable pay date* means:


(i) The pay date of a contribution that is being redesignated from traditional to Roth, or vice versa;


(ii) In the case of the uniformed services, the pay date of a contribution that is being recharacterized from tax-deferred to tax-exempt, or vice versa; or


(iii) The pay date of an erroneous contribution for which a negative adjustment is being made. However, if the erroneous contribution for which a negative adjustment is being made was a makeup or late contribution, the attributable pay date is the “as of” date of the erroneous makeup or late contribution.


*Breakage* means the loss incurred or the gain realized on makeup or late contributions.

*BRS participant* means any member of the Uniformed Services described in 5 U.S.C. 8440e(e)(1).


*Earnings* means both positive and negative fund performance attributable to differences in TSP core fund share prices.


*Error* means any act or omission by the Board, the TSP record keeper, or the participant's employing agency that is not in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, or administrative procedures that are made available to employing agencies and/or TSP participants. It does not mean an act or omission caused by events that are beyond the control of the Board, the TSP record keeper, or the participant's employing agency.


*FERCCA correction* means the correction of a retirement coverage error pursuant to the Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act, title II, Public Law 106-265, 114 Stat. 770. 


*Late contributions* means:


(i) Employee contributions that were timely deducted from a participant's basic pay but were not timely reported to the TSP record keeper for investment;


(ii) Employee contributions that were timely reported to the TSP record keeper but were not timely posted to the participant's account by the TSP record keeper because the payment record on which they were submitted contained errors;


(iii) Agency matching contributions attributable to employee contributions referred to in paragraph (i) or (ii) of this definition; and


(iv) Delayed agency automatic (1%) contributions.


*Makeup contributions* are employee contributions that should have been deducted from a participant's basic pay or employer contributions that should have been charged to an employing agency on an earlier date, but were not deducted or charged and, consequently, are being deducted or charged currently. 


*Negative adjustment* means the removal of money from a participant's TSP account by an employing agency. 


*Negative adjustment record* means a data record submitted by an employing agency to remove from a participant's TSP account money that the agency had previously submitted in error. 


*Non-BRS participant* means any member of the Uniformed Services not described in 5 U.S.C. 8440e(e)(1).


*Pay date* means the date established by an employing agency for paying its employees or service members. 


*Payment record* means a data record submitted by an employing agency to report contributions or loan payments to a participant's TSP account. 


*Recharacterization* means the process of changing a contribution that the employing agency erroneously submitted as a tax-deferred contribution to a tax-exempt contribution (or vice versa). Recharacterization is a method of error correction only. It applies only to the traditional balance of a uniformed services account.


*Recharacterization record* means a data record submitted by an employing agency to recharacterize a tax-deferred contribution that the employing agency erroneously submitted as a tax-exempt contribution (or vice versa).


*Redesignation* means the process of moving a contribution (and its associated positive earnings) from a participant's traditional balance to the participant's Roth balance or vice versa in order to correct an employing agency error that caused the contribution to be submitted to the wrong balance. Redesignation is a method of error correction only. A participant cannot request the redesignation of contributions unless the employing agency made an error in the submission of the contributions.


*Redesignation record* means a data record submitted by an employing agency to redesignate a contribution that the employing agency erroneously submitted to the wrong balance (traditional or Roth).



---

[N] [68 FR 35497, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32209, June 1, 2005; 77 FR 26425, May 4, 2012; 82 FR 60104, Dec. 19, 2017; 87 FR 31676, May 24, 2022]




