# § 51.907   Transition of price cap carrier access charges.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, on December 29, 2011, a Price Cap Carrier shall cap the rates for all interstate and intrastate rate elements for services contained in the definitions of Interstate End Office Access Services, Tandem Switched Transport Access Services, and Dedicated Transport Access Services. In addition, a Price Cap Carrier shall also cap the rates for any interstate and intrastate rate elements in the traffic sensitive basket” and the “trunking basket” as described in 47 CFR 61.42(d)(2) and (3) to the extent that such rate elements are not contained in the definitions of Interstate End Office Access Services, Tandem Switched Transport Access Services, and Dedicated Transport Access Services. Carriers will remove these services from price cap regulation in their July 1, 2012 annual tariff filing.


(b) *Step 1.* Beginning July 1, 2012, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:


(1) Each Price Cap Carrier shall file tariffs, in accordance with § 51.905(b)(2), with the appropriate state regulatory authority, that set forth the rates applicable to Transitional Intrastate Access Service in each state in which it provides Transitional Intrastate Access Service.


(2) Each Price Cap Carrier shall establish the rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service using the following methodology:


(i) Calculate total revenue from Transitional Intrastate Access Service at the carrier's interstate access rates in effect on December 29, 2011, using Fiscal Year 2011 intrastate switched access demand for each rate element.


(ii) Calculate total revenue from Transitional Intrastate Access Service at the carrier's intrastate access rates in effect on December 29, 2011, using Fiscal Year 2011 intrastate switched access demand for each rate element.


(iii) Calculate the Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction. The Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction is equal to one-half of the difference between the amount calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and the amount calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(iv) A Price Cap Carrier may elect to establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service using its intrastate access rate structure. Carriers using this option shall establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service such that Transitional Intrastate Access Service revenue at the proposed rates is no greater than Transitional Intrastate Access Service revenue at the intrastate rates in effect as of December 29, 2011 less the Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction, using Fiscal Year 2011 demand. Carriers electing to establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service in this manner shall notify the appropriate state regulatory authority of their election in the filing required by § 51.907(b)(1).


(v) A Price Cap Carrier may elect to apply its interstate access rate structure and interstate rates to Transitional Intrastate Access Service. In addition to applicable interstate access rates, the carrier may, between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2013, assess a transitional per-minute charge on Transitional Intrastate Access Service end office switching minutes (previously billed as intrastate access). The transitional per-minute charge shall be no greater than the Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction divided by Fiscal Year 2011 Transitional Intrastate Access Service end office switching minutes. Carriers electing to establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service in this manner shall notify the appropriate state regulatory authority of their election in the filing required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, nothing in this section obligates or allows a Price Cap Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions to increase such rates.


(3) If a Price Cap Carrier must make an intrastate switched access rate reduction pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and that Price Cap Carrier has an intrastate rate for a rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element, the Price Cap Carrier shall:


(i) Increase the rate for any intrastate rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element to the interstate rate no later than July 1, 2013;


(ii) Include any increases made pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section in the calculation of its eligible recovery for 2012.


(c) *Step 2.* Beginning July 1, 2013, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:


(1) Transitional Intrastate Access Service rates shall be no higher than the Price Cap Carrier's interstate access rates. Once the Price Cap Carrier's Transitional Intrastate Access Service rates are equal to its functionally equivalent interstate access rates, they shall be subject to the same rate structure and all subsequent rate and rate structure modifications. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, nothing in this section obligates or allows a Price Cap Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions to increase such rates.


(2) In cases where a Price Cap Carrier does not have intrastate rates that permit it to determine composite intrastate End Office Access Service rates, the carrier shall establish End Office Access Service rates such that the ratio between its composite intrastate End Office Access Service revenues and its total intrastate switched access revenues may not exceed the ratio between its composite interstate End Office Access Service revenues and its total interstate switched access revenues.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) If a Price Cap Carrier made an intrastate switched access rate reduction in 2012 pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and that Price Cap Carrier has an intrastate rate for a rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element, the Price Cap Carrier shall:


(i) Increase the rate for any intrastate rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element to the interstate rate on July 1, 2013; and


(ii) Include any increases made pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section in the calculation of its eligible recovery for 2013.


(d) *Step 3.* Beginning July 1, 2014, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:


(1) A Price Cap Carrier shall establish separate originating and terminating rate elements for all per-minute components within interstate and intrastate End Office Access Service. For fixed charges, the Price Cap Carrier shall divide the rate between originating and terminating rate elements based on relative originating and terminating end office switching minutes. If sufficient originating and terminating end office switching minute data is not available, the carrier shall divide such charges equally between originating and terminating elements.


(2) Each Price Cap Carrier shall establish rates for interstate or intrastate terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:


(i) Each Price Cap Carrier shall calculate the 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means the Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate calculated using Fiscal Year 2011 interstate demand multiplied by the interstate End Office Access Service rates at the levels in effect on December 29, 2011, and then dividing the result by 2011 Fiscal Year interstate local switching demand.


(ii) Each Price Cap Carrier shall calculate its 2014 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2014 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.0007 per minute plus two-thirds of any difference between the 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate and $0.0007 per minute.


(iii) Beginning July 1, 2014, no Price Cap Carrier's interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2014 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. A price cap carrier shall determine compliance by calculating interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rates using the relevant Fiscal Year 2011 interstate demand multiplied by the respective interstate rates as of July 1, 2014, and then dividing the result by the relevant 2011 Fiscal Year interstate terminating local switching demand. A price cap carrier's intrastate terminating end office access rates may not exceed the comparable interstate terminating end office access rates. In the alternative, any Price Cap Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for both interstate and intrastate terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2014 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate if its intrastate terminating end office access rates would be at rate parity with its interstate terminating end office access rates.


(e) *Step 4.* Beginning July 1, 2015, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:


(1) Each Price Cap Carrier shall establish interstate or intrastate rates for terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:


(i) Each Price Cap Carrier shall calculate its 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.0007 per minute plus one-third of any difference between the 2011 Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate and $0.0007 per minute.


(ii) Beginning July 1, 2015, no Price Cap Carrier's interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. A price cap carrier shall determine compliance by calculating interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rates using the relevant Fiscal Year 2011 interstate demand multiplied by the respective interstate rates as of July 1, 2015, and then dividing the result by the relevant 2011 Fiscal Year interstate terminating local switching demand. A price cap carrier's intrastate terminating end office access rates may not exceed the comparable interstate terminating end office access rates. In the alternative, any Price Cap Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for both interstate and intrastate terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate if its intrastate terminating end office access rates would be at rate parity with its interstate terminating end office access rates.


(2) Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Price Cap Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.


(f) *Step 5.* Beginning July 1, 2016, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, each Price Cap Carrier shall establish interstate terminating End Office Access Service rates such that its Composite Terminating End Office Access Service rate does not exceed $0.0007 per minute. A price cap carrier shall determine compliance by calculating interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rates using the relevant Fiscal Year 2011 interstate demand multiplied by the respective interstate rates as of July 1, 2016, and then dividing the result by the relevant 2011 Fiscal Year interstate terminating local switching demand. A price cap carrier's intrastate terminating end office access rates may not exceed the comparable interstate terminating end office access rates. In the alternative, any Price Cap Carrier may elect to implement a single per-minute rate element for both interstate and intrastate Terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2016 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate if its intrastate terminating end office access rates would be at rate parity with its interstate terminating end office access rates. Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Price Cap Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.


(g) *Step 6.* Beginning July 1, 2017, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:


(1) Each Price Cap Carrier shall, in accordance with a bill-and-keep methodology, refile its interstate access tariffs and any state tariffs, in accordance with § 51.905(b)(2), removing any intercarrier charges for terminating End Office Access Service.


(2) Each Price Cap Carrier shall establish, for interstate and intrastate terminating traffic traversing a tandem switch that the terminating carrier or its affiliates owns, Tandem-Switched Transport Access Service rates no greater than $0.0007 per minute.


(3) Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Price Cap Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.


(h) *Step 7.* Beginning July 1, 2018, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, each Price Cap carrier shall, in accordance with bill-and-keep, as defined in § 51.713, revise and refile its interstate switched access tariffs and any state tariffs to remove any intercarrier charges applicable to terminating tandem-switched access service traversing a tandem switch that the terminating carrier or its affiliate owns.






(i) *8YY Transition—Step 1.* Beginning July 1, 2021, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules in this chapter, each Price Cap Carrier shall:


(1) Establish separate rate elements for interstate and intrastate toll free originating end office access service and non-toll free originating end office access service. Rate elements reflecting fixed charges associated with originating End Office Access Service shall be treated as non-toll free charges.


(2) Reduce its intrastate toll free originating end office access service rates to its interstate toll free originating end office access service rates as follows:


(i) Calculate total revenue from End Office Access Service, excluding non-usage-based rate elements, at the carrier's interstate access rates in effect on June 30, 2020, using intrastate switched access demand for each rate element for the 12 months ending June 30, 2020.


(ii) Calculate total revenue from End Office Access Service, excluding non-usage based rate elements, at the carrier's intrastate access rates in effect on June 30, 2020, using intrastate switched access demand for each rate element for the 12 months ending June 30, 2020.


(iii) If the value in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section is less than or equal to the value in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section, the Price Cap Carrier's intrastate End Office Access Service rates shall remain unchanged.


(iv) If the value in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section is greater than the value in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section, the Price Cap Carrier shall reduce intrastate rates for End Office Access Service so that they are equal to the Price Cap Carrier's functionally equivalent interstate rates for End Office Access Rates and shall be subject to the interstate rate structure and all subsequent rate and rate structure modifications.


(v) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, nothing in this section allows a Price Cap Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions to increase such rates. If a Price Cap Carrier has an intrastate rate for an End Office Access Service rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element, the Price Cap Carrier may, if necessary as part of a restructuring to reduce its intrastate rates for End Office Access Service down to parity with functionally equivalent interstate rates, increase the rate for an intrastate rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element to the interstate rate in effect on July 1, 2021.


(3) Establish separate rate elements for interstate and intrastate non-toll free originating transport services for service between an end office switch and the tandem switch and remove its rate for intrastate and interstate originating toll free transport services consistent with a bill-and-keep methodology (as defined in § 51.713).


(4) Establish separate rate elements respectively for interstate and intrastate non-toll free originating tandem switching services.


(5) Establish transitional interstate and intrastate Joint Tandem Switched Transport Access Service rate elements for Toll Free Calls that are respectively no more than $0.001 per minute.


(6) Reduce its interstate and intrastate rates for Toll Free Database Query Charges to no more than $0.004248 per query. Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Price Cap Carrier that has Toll Free Database Query Charges lower than this rate to make any intrastate or interstate tariff filing revision to increase such rates.




(j) *8YY Transition—Step 2.* Beginning July 1, 2022, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules in this chapter, each Price Cap Carrier shall:


(1) Reduce its interstate and intrastate rates for all originating End Office Access Service rate elements for Toll Free Calls in each state in which it provides such service by one-half of the maximum rate allowed by paragraph (a) of this section; and


(2) Reduce its rates for intrastate and interstate Toll Free Database Query Charges by one-half of the difference between the rate permitted by paragraph (i)(6) of this section and the transitional rate of $0.0002 per query set forth in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.




(k) *8YY Transition—Step 3.* Beginning July 1, 2023, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules in this chapter, each Price Cap Carrier shall:




(1) In accordance with a bill-and-keep methodology, refile its interstate switched access tariff and any state tariff to remove any intercarrier charges for intrastate and interstate originating End Office Access Service for Toll Free Calls; and


(2) Reduce its rates for all intrastate and interstate Toll Free Database Query Charges to a transitional rate of no more than $0.0002 per query.





---

[N] [76 FR 73856, Nov. 29, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 48452, Aug. 14, 2012; 79 FR 28844, May 20, 2014; 85 FR 75916, Nov. 27, 2020]










