# § 1.464   Minor patients.

(a) *Definition of minor.* As used in §§ 1.460 through 1.499 of this part the term “minor” means a person who has not attained the age of majority specified in the applicable State law, or if no age of majority is specified in the applicable State law, the age of eighteen years. 


(b) *State law not requiring parental consent to treatment.* If a minor patient acting alone has the legal capacity under the applicable State law to apply for and obtain treatment for drug abuse, alcoholism or alcohol abuse, infection with the HIV, or sickle cell anemia, any written consent for disclosure authorized under § 1.475 of this part may be given only by the minor patient. This restriction includes, but is not limited to, any disclosure of patient identifying information to the parent or guardian of a minor patient for the purpose of obtaining financial reimbursement. Sections 1.460 through 1.499 of this part do not prohibit a VA facility from refusing to provide nonemergent treatment to an otherwise ineligible minor patient until the minor patient consents to the disclosure necessary to obtain reimbursement for services from a third party payer. 


(c) *State law requiring parental consent to treatment.* (1) Where State law requires consent of a parent, guardian, or other person for a minor to obtain treatment for drug abuse, alcoholism or alcohol abuse, infection with the HIV, or sickle cell anemia, any written consent for disclosure authorized under § 1.475 of this part must be given by both the minor and his or her parent, guardian, or other person authorized under State law to act in the minor's behalf. 


(2) Where State law requires parental consent to treatment, the fact of a minor's application for treatment may be communicated to the minor's parent, guardian, or other person authorized under State law to act in the minor's behalf only if: 


(i) The minor has given written consent to the disclosure in accordance with § 1.475 of this part; or 


(ii) The minor lacks the capacity to make a rational choice regarding such consent as judged by the appropriate VA facility director under paragraph (d) of this section. 


(d) *Minor applicant for service lacks capacity for rational choice.* Facts relevant to reducing a threat to the life or physical well being of the applicant or any other individual may be disclosed to the parent, guardian, or other person authorized under State law to act in the minor's behalf if the appropriate VA facility director judges that: 


(1) A minor applicant for services lacks capacity because of extreme youth or mental or physical condition to make a rational decision on whether to consent to a disclosure under § 1.475 of this part to his or her parent, guardian, or other person authorized under State law to act in the minor's behalf, and 


(2) The applicant's situation poses a substantial threat to the life or physical well-being of the applicant or any other individual which may be reduced by communicating relevant facts to the minor's parent, guardian, or other person authorized under State law to act in the minor's behalf.



---

[N] [60 FR 63929, Dec. 13, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 64043, Oct. 9, 2020]




