# ยง 2.31   Definitions.

As used in the regulations in this subpart:






(a) The term *Federal financial assistance* means assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of grants, contracts, loans, loan guarantees, property, cooperative agreements, food commodities, direct appropriations, or other assistance, but does not include a tax credit, a deduction, or an exemption. Federal financial assistance may be *direct* or *indirect.*

(1) The term *direct Federal financial assistance* or *Federal financial assistance provided directly* means that the Government or a DOL social service intermediary provider under this part selects the provider and either purchases services from that provider (*e.g.,* via a contract) or awards funds to that provider to carry out a service (*e.g.,* via a grant or cooperative agreement). In general, Federal financial assistance shall be treated as direct, unless it meets the definition of *indirect Federal financial assistance* or *Federal financial assistance provided indirectly.*

(2) The term *indirect Federal financial assistance* or *Federal financial assistance provided indirectly* means that the choice of the service provider is placed in the hands of the beneficiary, and the cost of that service is paid through a voucher, certificate, or other similar means of Government-funded payment. Federal financial assistance provided to an organization is indirect when:


(i) The Government program through which the beneficiary receives the voucher, certificate, or other similar means of Government-funded payment is neutral toward religion; and


(ii) The organization receives the assistance wholly as a result of a genuine and independent private choice of the beneficiary, not a choice of the Government. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords a genuinely independent and private choice.


(3) The recipient of sub-awards received through programs administered by States or other intermediaries that are themselves recipients of Federal financial assistance (*e.g.,* local areas that receive within-state allocations to provide workforce services under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act) are not considered recipients of *indirect Federal financial assistance* or recipients of *Federal financial assistance provided indirectly* as those terms are used in Executive Order 13559. These recipients of sub-awards are considered recipients of direct Federal financial assistance.




(b) The term *social service program* means a program that is administered or supported by the Federal Government, or by a State or local government using Federal financial assistance, and that provides services directed at reducing poverty, improving opportunities for low-income children, revitalizing low-income communities, empowering low-income families and low-income individuals to become self-sufficient, or otherwise helping people in need. Such programs include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Child care services and services to meet the special needs of children, older individuals, and individuals with disabilities (including physical, mental, or emotional disabilities);


(2) Job training and related services, and employment services;


(3) Information, referral, and counseling services;


(4) Literacy and mentoring programs; and


(5) Services for the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency and substance abuse, services for the prevention of crime and the provision of assistance to the victims and the families of criminal offenders, and services related to intervention in, and prevention of domestic violence.


(c) The term *DOL* means the U.S. Department of Labor.




(d) The term *DOL-supported social service program, DOL social service program,* or *DOL program* means a social service program, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, that is administered by or for DOL with DOL support. Such programs include, but are not limited to, the one-stop delivery system, Job Corps, and other programs supported through the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.


(e) The term *DOL social service provider* means any non-Federal organization, other than a State or local government, that seeks or receives DOL support as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, or participates in DOL programs other than as the ultimate beneficiary of such programs.


(f) The term *DOL social service intermediary provider* means any DOL social service provider, including a non-governmental organization, that, as part of its duties, selects subgrantees to receive DOL support or subcontractors to provide DOL-supported services, or has the same duties under this part as a governmental entity.


(g) The term *DOL support* means Federal financial assistance, as well as procurement funding provided to a non-Federal organization, including a State or local government, to support the organization's administration of or participation in a DOL social service program as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.


(h) The term *religious exercise* has the meaning given to the term in 42 U.S.C. 2000cc-5(7)(A).





---

[N] [69 FR 41891, July 12, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 19421, Apr. 4, 2016; 85 FR 82140, Dec. 17, 2020; 89 FR 15715, Mar. 4, 2024]












