# ยง 920.42   Accounting.

(a) If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:


(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom it was collected: *Provided,* That any sum paid by a person in excess of his or her pro rata share of the expenses during any fiscal period may be applied by the committee at the end of such fiscal period to any outstanding obligations due the committee from such person.


(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over such excess into subsequent fiscal periods as a reserve: *Provided,* That funds already in the reserve do not equal approximately one fiscal period's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used: (i) To defray expenses, during any fiscal period, prior to the time assessment income is insufficient to cover such expenses; (ii) to cover deficits incurred during any fiscal year when assessment income is less than expenses; (iii) to defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative; and, (iv) to cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate: *Provided,* That to the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.


(b) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purpose specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the committee and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.


(c) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of the committee, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in his or her possession to the committee, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.




