# ยง 1710.101   Scope.

(a) This part provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the federal government. This part applies to all federal employees who owe debts to the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Board) and to current employees of the Board who owe debts to other federal agencies. This part does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.


(b) These procedures do not apply to debts or claims arising under:


(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.;*

(2) The tariff laws of the United States; or


(3) Any case where a collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.


(c) These procedures do not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the revised Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.,* 31 CFR chapter IX, parts 900 through 904.


(d) This part does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the Board. This part does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected.


(e) The Board is not limited to collection remedies contained in the revised FCCS. The FCCS is not intended to impair common law remedies.






