# § 3174.2   General requirements.

(a) Oil may be stored only in tanks that meet the requirements of § 3174.5(b) of this subpart.


(b) Oil must be measured on the lease, unit PA, or CA, unless approval for off-lease measurement is obtained under §§ 3173.22 and 3173.23 of this part.


(c) Oil produced from a lease, unit PA, or CA may not be commingled with production from other leases, unit PAs, or CAs or non-Federal properties before the point of royalty measurement, unless prior approval is obtained under §§ 3173.14 and 3173.15 of this part.


(d) An operator must obtain a BLM-approved FMP number under §§ 3173.12 and 3173.13 of this part for each oil measurement facility where the measurement affects the calculation of the volume or quality of production on which royalty is owed (*i.e.,* oil tank used for tank gauging, LACT system, CMS, or other approved metering device), except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.


(e) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, all equipment used to measure the volume of oil for royalty purposes installed after January 17, 2017 must comply with the requirements of this subpart.


(f) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, measuring procedures and equipment used to measure oil for royalty purposes, that is in use on January 17, 2017, must comply with the requirements of this subpart on or before the date the operator is required to apply for an FMP number under 3173.12(e) of this part. Prior to that date, measuring procedures and equipment used to measure oil for royalty purposes, that is in use on January 17, 2017 must continue to comply with the requirements of Onshore Oil and Gas Order No. 4, Measurement of oil, § 3164.1(b) as contained in 43 CFR part 3160, (revised October 1, 2016), and any COAs and written orders applicable to that equipment.


(g) The requirement to follow the approved equipment lists identified in §§ 3174.6(b)(5)(ii)(A), 3174.6(b)(5)(iii), 3174.8(a)(1), and 3174.9(a) does not apply until January 17, 2019. The operator or manufacturer must obtain approval of a particular make, model, and size by submitting the test data used to develop performance specifications to the PMT to review.


(h) Meters used for allocation under a commingling and allocation approval under § 3173.14 are not required to meet the requirements of this subpart.




