# § 5201.104   Additional rules for Office of the Inspector General employees.

The rules in this section apply to employees of the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) and are in addition to §§ 5201.101, 5201.102, and 5201.103.


(a) *Prior approval for outside employment.* (1) Before engaging in any outside employment, an OIG employee must obtain the written approval of the Inspector General or the Inspector General's designee.


(2) *Submission of requests for approval.* (i) Requests for approval shall be submitted in writing to the Inspector General or the Inspector General's designee. Such requests shall include, at a minimum, the following:


(A) The employee's name and position title;


(B) The name and address of the person, group, or organization for whom the employee proposes to engage in outside employment; and


(C) A description of the proposed outside employment, including the duties and services to be performed while engaged in the outside employment, and the approximate dates of the outside employment.


(ii) Together with the employee's request for approval, the employee shall provide a certification that:


(A) The outside employment will not depend in any way on nonpublic information, as defined at 5 CFR 2635.703(b);


(B) No official duty time or Government property, resources, or facilities not available to the general public will be used in connection with the outside employment; and


(C) The employee has read and is familiar with the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch (5 CFR part 2635), including subpart H. (“Outside Activities”), and the Department's supplemental standards of ethical conduct set forth in this part.


(iii) Upon a significant change in the nature or scope of the outside employment or in the employee's official position, the employee shall submit a revised request for approval.


(3) *Standard for approval.* Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635 and this part.


(4) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, “employment” means any form of non-Federal employment or any business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, or trustee.




