# ยง 61.1   Definitions.

As used in these regulations:


*Act* means any act of Congress authorizing or directing the Secretary to prepare a roll of a specific tribe, band, or group of Indians.


*Adopted person* means a person whose natural parents' parental rights have been given to others to exercise by court order.


*Approved roll* means a roll of Indians approved by the Secretary.


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Basic roll* means the specified allotment, annuity, census or other roll designated in the Act or Plan as the basis upon which a new roll is to be compiled.


*Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Descendant(s)* means those persons who are the issue of the ancestor through whom enrollment rights are claimed; namely, the children, grandchildren, etc. It does not include collateral relatives such as brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, cousins, etc. or adopted children, grandchildren, etc.


*Director* means the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs area office which has administrative jurisdiction over the local field office responsible for administering the affairs of the tribe, band, or group for which a roll is being prepared or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Enrollee(s)* means persons who have met specific requirements for enrollment and whose names appear on a particular roll of Indians.


*Lineal ancestor* means an ancestor, living or deceased, who is related to a person by direct ascent; namely, the parent, grandparent, etc. It does not include collateral relatives such as brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, etc., or adopted parents, grandparents, etc.


*Living* means born on or before and alive on the date specified.


*Plan* means any effective plan prepared under the provisions of the Act of October 19, 1973, Pub. L. 93-134, 87 Stat. 466, as amended, which authorizes and directs the Secretary to prepare a roll of a specific tribe, band, or group of Indians.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Interior or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Sponsor* means any person who files an application for enrollment or appeal on behalf of another person.


*Staff Officer* means the Enrollment Officer or other person authorized to prepare the roll.


*Superintendent* means the official or other designated representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in charge of the field office which has immediate administrative responsibility for the affairs of the tribe, band, or group for which a roll is being prepared.


*Tribal Committee* means the body of a federally recognized tribal entity vested with final authority to act on enrollment matters.


*Tribal Governing Document* means the written organizational statement governing the tribe, band, or group of Indians and/or any valid document, enrollment ordinance, or resolution enacted thereunder.




