# § 1.36B-5   Information reporting by Exchanges.

(a) *In general.* An Exchange must report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) information required by section 36B(f)(3) and this section relating to individual market qualified health plans in which individuals enroll through the Exchange. No reporting is required under this section for enrollment in plans through the Small Business Health Options Exchange.


(b) *Individual filing a return.* For purposes of this section, the terms *tax filer* and *responsible adult* describe the individual who is expected to be the taxpayer filing an income tax return for the year of coverage with respect to individuals enrolling in a qualified health plan. A tax filer is an individual on behalf of whom advance payments of the premium tax credit are made. A responsible adult is an individual on behalf of whom advance payments of the premium tax credit are not made. An individual may be a tax filer or responsible adult whether or not enrolled in coverage. If more than one family (within the meaning of § 1.36B-1(d)) enrolls in the same qualified health plan, there is a tax filer or responsible adult for each family.


(c) *Information required to be reported*—(1) *Information reported annually.* An Exchange must report to the IRS the following information for each qualified health plan—


(i) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN), or date of birth if a TIN is not available, of the tax filer or responsible adult;


(ii) The name and TIN, or date of birth if a TIN is not available, of a tax filer's spouse;


(iii) The amount of the advance credit payments paid for coverage under the plan each month;


(iv) For plans for which advance credit payments are made, the premium (excluding the premium allocated to benefits in excess of essential health benefits, see § 1.36B-3(j)) for the applicable benchmark plan for purposes of computing advance credit payments;


(v) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, for plans for which advance credit payments are not made, the premium (excluding the premium allocated to benefits in excess of essential health benefits, see § 1.36B-3(j)) for the applicable benchmark plan that would apply to all individuals enrolled in the qualified health plan if advance credit payments were made for the coverage;


(vi) The name and TIN, or date of birth if a TIN is not available, and dates of coverage for each individual covered under the plan;


(vii) The coverage start and end dates of the qualified health plan;


(viii) The monthly premium for the plan in which the individuals enroll, however—


(A) The premium allocated to benefits in excess of essential health benefits is excluded, see § 1.36B-3(j);


(B) The premium for a stand-alone dental plan allocated to pediatric dental benefits is added, see § 1.36B-3(k), but if a family (within the meaning of § 1.36B-1(d)) is enrolled in more than one qualified health plan, the pediatric dental premium is added to the premium for only one qualified health plan; and


(C) The amount is not reduced for advance credit payments;


(ix) The name of the qualified health plan issuer;


(x) The Exchange-assigned policy identification number;


(xi) The Exchange's unique identifier; and


(xii) Any other information specified by forms or instructions or in published guidance, see § 601.601(d) of this chapter.


(2) *Information reported monthly.* For each calendar month, an Exchange must report to the IRS for each qualified health plan, the information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the following information—


(i) For plans for which advance credit payments are made—


(A) The names, TINs, or dates of birth if no TIN is available, of the individuals enrolled in the qualified health plan who are expected to be the tax filer's dependent; and


(B) Information on employment (to the extent this information is provided to the Exchange) consisting of—


(*1*) The name, address, and EIN of each employer of the tax filer, the tax filer's spouse, and each individual covered by the plan; and


(*2*) An indication of whether an employer offered affordable minimum essential coverage that provided minimum value, and, if so, the amount of the employee's required contribution for self-only coverage;


(ii) The unique identifying number the Exchange uses to report data that enables the IRS to associate the data with the proper account from month to month;


(iii) The issuer's employer identification number (EIN); and


(iv) Any other information specified by forms or instructions or in published guidance, see § 601.601(d) of this chapter.




(3) *Special rules for information reported*—(i) *Multiple families enrolled in a single qualified health plan.* An Exchange must report the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section for each family (within the meaning of § 1.36B-1(d)) enrolled in a qualified health plan, including families submitting a single application or enrolled in a single qualified health plan. If advance credit payments are made for coverage under the plan, the enrollment premiums reported to each family under paragraph (c)(1)(viii) of this section are the premiums allocated to the family under § 1.36B-3(h) (allocating enrollment premiums to each taxpayer in proportion to the premiums for each taxpayer's applicable benchmark plan).


(ii) *Alternative to reporting applicable benchmark plan.* An Exchange satisfies the requirement in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section if, on or before January 1 of each year after 2014, the Exchange provides a reasonable method that a responsible adult may use to determine the premium (after adjusting for benefits in excess of essential health benefits) for the applicable benchmark plan that applies to the responsible adult's coverage family for the prior calendar year for purposes of determining the premium tax credit on the tax return.


(iii) *Partial month of coverage.*—(A) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, if an individual is enrolled in a qualified health plan after the first day of a month, the amount reported for that month under paragraphs (c)(1)(iv), (c)(1)(v), and (c)(1)(viii) of this section is $0.


(B) *Certain mid-month enrollments.* For information reporting that is due on or after January 1, 2019, if an individual's qualified health plan is terminated before the last day of a month, or if an individual is enrolled in coverage after the first day of a month and the coverage is effective on the date of the individual's birth, adoption, or placement for adoption or in foster care, or on the effective date of a court order, the amount reported under paragraphs (c)(1)(iv) and (c)(1)(v) of this section is the premium for the applicable benchmark plan for a full month of coverage (excluding the premium allocated to benefits in excess of essential health benefits), and the amount reported under paragraph (c)(1)(viii) of this section is the enrollment premium for the month, reduced by any amounts that were refunded.




(4) *Exemptions.* For each calendar month, an Exchange must report to the IRS the name and TIN, or date of birth if a TIN is not available, of each individual for whom the Exchange has granted an exemption from coverage under section 5000A(e) and the related regulations, the months for which the exemption is in effect, and the exemption certificate number.


(d) *Time for reporting*—(1) *Annual reporting.* An Exchange must submit to the IRS the annual report required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year of coverage.


(2) *Monthly reporting*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, an Exchange must submit to the IRS the monthly reports required under paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(4) of this section on or before the 15th day following each month of coverage.


(ii) *Initial monthly reporting in 2014.* Exchanges must submit to the IRS the initial monthly report required under paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(4) of this section on a date that the Commissioner may establish in other guidance, see § 601.601(d) of this section, but no earlier than June 15, 2014. The initial report must include cumulative information for enrollments for the period January 1, 2014, 

through the last day of the month preceding the month for submitting the 

initial monthly report.


(3) *Corrections to information reported.* In general, an Exchange must correct erroneous or outdated monthly-reported information in the next monthly report. If the information must be corrected after the final monthly submission on January 15 following the coverage year, corrections should be submitted by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the incorrect information is identified. However, no monthly report correction is permitted after April 15 following the year of coverage. Errors on the annual report must be corrected and reported to the IRS and to the individual recipient identified in paragraph (f) of this section as soon as possible.


(e) *Electronic reporting.* An Exchange must submit the reports to the IRS required under this section in electronic format. The information reported monthly will be submitted to the IRS through the Department of Health and Human Services.


(f) *Annual statement to be furnished to individuals*—(1) *In general.* An Exchange must furnish to each tax filer or responsible adult (the recipient for purposes of paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section) a written statement showing—


(i) The name and address of the recipient and


(ii) The information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the previous calendar year.


(2) *Form of statements.* A statement required under this paragraph (f) may be made by furnishing to the recipient identified in the annual report either a copy of the report filed with the IRS or a substitute statement. A substitute statement must include the information required to be shown on the report filed with the IRS and must comply with requirements in published guidance (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) relating to substitute statements. A reporting entity may use an IRS truncated taxpayer identification number as the identification number for an individual in lieu of the identification number appearing on the corresponding information report filed with the IRS.


(3) *Time and manner for furnishing statements.* An Exchange must furnish the statements required under this paragraph (f) on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year of coverage. If mailed, the statement must be sent to the recipient's last known permanent address or, if no permanent address is known, to the recipient's temporary address. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(3), an Exchange's first class mailing to the last known permanent address, or if no permanent address is known, the temporary address, discharges the Exchange's requirement to furnish the statement. An Exchange may furnish the statement electronically in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(g) *Electronic furnishing of statements*—(1) *In general.* An Exchange required to furnish a statement under paragraph (f) of this section may furnish the statement to the recipient in an electronic format in lieu of a paper format. An Exchange that meets the requirements of paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section is treated as furnishing the statement in a timely manner.


(2) *Consent*—(i) *In general.* A recipient must have affirmatively consented to receive the statement in an electronic format. The consent may be made electronically in any manner that reasonably demonstrates that the recipient is able to access the statement in the electronic format in which it will be furnished. Alternatively, the consent may be made in a paper document that is confirmed electronically.


(ii) *Withdrawal of consent.* The consent requirement of this paragraph (g)(2) is not satisfied if the recipient withdraws the consent and the withdrawal takes effect before the statement is furnished. An Exchange may provide that the withdrawal of consent takes effect either on the date the Exchange receives it or on another date no more than 60 days later. The Exchange may provide that a request by the recipient for a paper statement will be treated as a withdrawal of consent to receive the statement in an electronic format. If the Exchange furnishes a statement after the withdrawal of consent takes effect, the recipient has not consented to receive the statement in electronic format.


(iii) *Change in hardware or software requirements.* If a change in the hardware or software required to access the statement creates a material risk that a recipient will not be able to access a statement, an Exchange must, prior to changing the hardware or software, notify the recipient. The notice must describe the revised hardware and software required to access the statement and inform the recipient that a new consent to receive the statement in the revised electronic format must be provided to the Exchange. After implementing the revised hardware and software, the Exchange must obtain a new consent or confirmation of consent from the recipient to receive the statement electronically.


(iv) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (g)(2):


(3) *Required disclosures*—(i) *In general.* Prior to, or at the time of, a recipient's consent, an Exchange must provide to the recipient a clear and conspicuous disclosure statement containing each of the disclosures described in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii) through (g)(3)(viii) of this section.


(ii) *Paper statement.* An Exchange must inform the recipient that the statement will be furnished on paper if the recipient does not consent to receive it electronically.


(iii) *Scope and duration of consent.* An Exchange must inform the recipient of the scope and duration of the consent. For example, the Exchange must inform the recipient whether the consent applies to each statement required to be furnished after the consent is given until it is withdrawn or only to the first statement required to be furnished following the consent.


(iv) *Post-consent request for a paper statement.* An Exchange must inform the recipient of any procedure for obtaining a paper copy of the recipient's statement after giving the consent described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and whether a request for a paper statement will be treated as a withdrawal of consent.


(v) *Withdrawal of consent.* An Exchange must inform the recipient that—


(A) The recipient may withdraw consent by writing (electronically or on paper) to the person or department whose name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address is provided in the disclosure statement;


(B) An Exchange will confirm the withdrawal and the date on which it takes effect in writing (either electronically or on paper); and


(C) A withdrawal of consent does not apply to a statement that was furnished electronically in the manner described in this paragraph (g) before the date on which the withdrawal of consent takes effect.


(vi) *Notice of termination.* An Exchange must inform the recipient of the conditions under which the Exchange will cease furnishing statements electronically to the recipient.


(vii) *Updating information.* An Exchange must inform the recipient of the procedures for updating the information needed to contact the recipient and notify the recipient of any change in the Exchange's contact information.


(viii) *Hardware and software requirements.* An Exchange must provide the recipient with a description of the hardware and software required to access, print, and retain the statement, and the date when the statement will no longer be available on the Web site. The Exchange must advise the recipient that the statement may be required to be printed and attached to a Federal, State, or local income tax return.


(4) *Format.* The electronic version of the statement must contain all required information and comply with applicable published guidance (see § 601.601(d) of this chapter) relating to substitute statements to recipients.


(5) *Notice*—(i) *In general.* If a statement is furnished on a Web site, the Exchange must notify the recipient. The notice may be delivered by mail, electronic mail, or in person. The notice must provide instructions on how to access and print the statement and include the following statement in capital letters, “IMPORTANT TAX RETURN DOCUMENT AVAILABLE.” If the notice is provided by electronic mail, this statement must be on the subject line of the electronic mail.


(ii) *Undeliverable electronic address.* If an electronic notice described in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section is returned as undeliverable, and the Exchange cannot obtain the correct electronic address from the Exchange's records or from the recipient, the Exchange must furnish the notice by mail or in person within 30 days after the electronic notice is returned.


(iii) *Corrected statement.* An Exchange must furnish a corrected statement to the recipient electronically if the original statement was furnished electronically. If the original statement was furnished through a Web site posting, the Exchange must notify the recipient that it has posted the corrected statement on the Web site in the manner described in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section within 30 days of the posting. The corrected statement or the notice must be furnished by mail or in person if—


(A) An electronic notice of the Web site posting of an original statement or the corrected statement was returned as undeliverable; and


(B) The recipient has not provided a new email address.


(6) *Access period.* Statements furnished on a Web site must be retained on the Web site through October 15 of the year following the calendar year to which the statements relate (or the first business day after October 15, if October 15 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday). The furnisher must maintain access to corrected statements that are posted on the Web site through October 15 of the year following the calendar year to which the statements relate (or the first business day after October 15, if October 15 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday) or the date 90 days after the corrected forms are posted, whichever is later.


(7) *Paper statements after withdrawal of consent.* An Exchange must furnish a paper statement if a recipient withdraws consent to receive a statement electronically and the withdrawal takes effect before the statement is furnished. A paper statement furnished under this paragraph (g)(7) after the statement due date is timely if furnished within 30 days after the date the Exchange receives the withdrawal of consent.


(h) *Effective/applicability date.* Except for the last sentence of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, this section applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013. The last sentence of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018. Paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.36B-5 as contained in 26 CFR part I edition revised as of April 1, 2016, applies to information reporting for taxable years ending after December 31, 2013, and beginning before January 1, 2019.





---

[N] [T.D. 9663, 79 FR 26117, May 7, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 91768, Dec. 19, 2016]




