# § 301.6081-2   Automatic extension of time for filing an information return with respect to certain foreign trusts.

(a) *In general.* A trust required to file a return on Form 3520-A, “Annual Information Return of Foreign Trust with a U.S. Owner,” will be allowed an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return after the date prescribed for filing the return if the trust files an application under this section in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Requirements.* To satisfy this paragraph (b), a trust must—


(1) Submit a complete application on Form 7004, “Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns,” or in any other manner prescribed by the Commissioner; and


(2) File the application on or before the date prescribed for filing the return with the Internal Revenue Service office designated in the application's instructions.


(c) *Termination of automatic extension.* The Commissioner may terminate an automatic extension at any time by mailing to the trust a notice of termination at least 10 days prior to the termination date designated in such notice. The Commissioner must mail the notice of termination to the address shown on the Form 7004 or to the trust's last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter.


(d) *Penalties.* See section 6677 for failure to file information returns with respect to certain foreign trusts.


(e) *Effective/applicability dates.* This section is applicable for applications for an automatic extension of time to file an information return with respect to certain foreign trusts listed in paragraph (a) of this section filed after July 1, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 9407, 73 FR 37371, July 1, 2008]


