# 30.001   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Affected CAS-covered contract or subcontract* means a contract or subcontract subject to Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) rules and regulations for which a contractor or subcontractor—


(1) Used one cost accounting practice to estimate costs and a changed cost accounting practice to accumulate and report costs under the contract or subcontract; or


(2) Used a noncompliant practice for purposes of estimating or accumulating and reporting costs under the contract or subcontract.


*Cognizant Federal agency official (CFAO)* means the contracting officer assigned by the cognizant Federal agency to administer the CAS.


*Desirable change* means a compliant change to a contractor's established or disclosed cost accounting practices that the CFAO finds is desirable and not detrimental to the Government and is, therefore, not subject to the no increased cost prohibition provisions of CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts affected by the change.


*Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts* means—


(1) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts described at 16.202, 16.203 (except when price adjustments are based on actual costs of labor or material, described at 16.203-1(a)(2)), and 16.207;


(2) Fixed-price incentive contracts and subcontracts where the price is not adjusted based on actual costs incurred (Subpart 16.4);


(3) Orders issued under indefinite-delivery contracts and subcontracts where final payment is not based on actual costs incurred (Subpart 16.5); and


(4) The fixed-hourly rate portion of time-and-materials and labor-hours contracts and subcontracts (Subpart 16.6).


*Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts* means—


(1) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts described at 16.203-1(a)(2), 16.204, 16.205, and 16.206;


(2) Cost-reimbursement contracts and subcontracts (Subpart 16.3);


(3) Incentive contracts and subcontracts where the price may be adjusted based on actual costs incurred (Subpart 16.4);


(4) Orders issued under indefinite-delivery contracts and subcontracts where final payment is based on actual costs incurred (Subpart 16.5); and


(5) The materials portion of time-and-materials contracts and subcontracts (Subpart 16.6).


*Noncompliance* means a failure in estimating, accumulating, or reporting costs to—


(1) Comply with applicable CAS; or


(2) Consistently follow disclosed or established cost accounting practices.


*Required change* means—


(1) A change in cost accounting practice that a contractor is required to make in order to comply with applicable Standards, modifications or interpretations thereto, that subsequently becomes applicable to an existing CAS-covered contract or subcontract due to the receipt of another CAS-covered contract or subcontract; or


(2) A prospective change to a disclosed or established cost accounting practice when the CFAO determines that the former practice was in compliance with applicable CAS and the change is necessary for the contractor to remain in compliance.


*Unilateral change* means a change in cost accounting practice from one compliant practice to another compliant practice that a contractor with a CAS-covered contract(s) or subcontract(s) elects to make that has not been deemed a desirable change by the CFAO and for which the Government will pay no aggregate increased costs.



---

[N] [70 FR 11752, Mar. 9, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 10966, Feb. 28, 2008]




