# § 531.403   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Acceptable level of competence* means performance by an employee that warrants advancement of the employee's rate of basic pay to the next higher step of the grade or the next higher rate within the grade (as defined in this section) of his or her position, subject to the requirements of § 531.404 of this subpart, as determined by the head of the agency (or designee).


*Agency* means an agency with employees covered by this subpart, as provided in § 531.402. 


*Calendar week* means a period of any seven consecutive calendar days.


*Critical element* has the meaning given that term in § 430.203 of this chapter.


*Employee* has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105, except that for the purpose of applying the provisions regarding equivalent increases and creditable service with respect to non-GS service, *employee* also includes—


(1) An individual employed by the U.S. Postal Service or the Postal Rate Commission who would be considered an employee under 5 U.S.C. 2105 but for the exclusion in section 2105(e); and


(2) An individual employed by a nonappropriated fund instrumentality for service that is creditable under § 531.406(b)(4).


*Equivalent increase* means an increase in an employee's rate of basic pay, or an opportunity for such an increase under a non-GS pay system, as described in § 531.407.


*General Schedule* or *GS* means the classification and pay system established under 5 U.S.C. chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53. The term also refers to the pay schedule of GS rates established under 5 U.S.C. 5332, as adjusted under 5 U.S.C. 5303 or other law (including GS rates payable to GM employees). Law enforcement officers receiving LEO special base rates are covered by the GS classification and pay system, but receive higher base rates of pay in lieu of GS rates at grades GS-3 through GS-10.


*GM employee* has the meaning given that term in 5 CFR 531.203.


*GS rate* means a rate of basic pay within the General Schedule, excluding additional pay of any kind such as locality payments under subpart F of this part and special rate supplements under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C, or 38 U.S.C. 7455. A rate payable to a GM employee is considered a GS rate.


*Law enforcement officer* or *LEO* has the meaning given that term in 5 CFR 550.103.


*LEO special base rate* means a special base rate established for GS law enforcement officers at grades GS-3 through GS-10 under section 403 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (section 529 of Pub. L. 101-509, November 5, 1990, as amended) which is used in lieu of a GS rate.


*Next higher rate within the grade* for a GM employee means the rate of basic pay that exceeds the employee's existing rate of basic pay by one within-grade increase, not to exceed the maximum rate of the grade. For the purpose of this definition, a within-grade increase equals the dollar value of the GS within-grade increase for the applicable grade (excluding any locality payment, special rate supplement, or any other additional payment). 


*Permanent position* means a position filled by an employee whose appointment is not designated as temporary by law and does not have a definite time limitation of one year or less. “Permanent position” includes a position to which an employee is promoted on a temporary or term basis for at least one year.


*Promotion* means an employee's movement from one grade or level to a higher grade or level while continuously employed (including such a movement in conjunction with a transfer).


*Rate of basic pay* means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any kind. For an employee covered by the General Schedule, that *rate of basic pay* is the GS rate or, if applicable, an LEO special base rate. 


*Scheduled tour of duty* means any work schedule established for an employee in accordance with the regular procedures for the establishment of workweeks in § 610.111 of this chapter. For a full-time employee this includes the basic 40-hour workweek. For a part-time employee this is any regularly scheduled work of less than 40-hours during the administrative workweek.


*Temporary promotion* means a time-limited promotion with a not-to-exceed date or a specified term. 


*Waiting period* means the minimum time requirement of creditable service to become eligible for consideration for a within-grade increase.


*Within-grade increase* is synonymous with the term “step increase” used in 5 U.S.C. 5335 and means—* * 


(1) A periodic increase in an employee's rate of basic pay from one step of the grade of his or her position to the next higher step of that grade in accordance with section 5335 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart; or


(2) For a GM employee whose rate does not equal a regular GS step rate (*i.e.*, an off-step rate), a periodic increase in an employee's rate of basic pay from the employee's current rate to the next higher rate within the grade (as defined in this section) consistent with section 4 of Public Law 103-89.



---

[N] [46 FR 2319, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 41019, Aug. 14, 1981; 48 FR 49486, Oct. 25, 1983; 51 FR 8420, Mar. 11, 1986; 58 FR 65536, Dec. 15, 1993; 59 FR 40793, Aug. 10, 1994; 60 FR 33098, June 27, 1995; 60 FR 43947, Aug. 23, 1995; 70 FR 31301, May 31, 2005]




