# ยง 98.196   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by ยง 98.36 and the information listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (14) of this section.




(1) Method used to determine the quantity of lime that is produced and quantity of lime that is sold.


(2) Method used to determine the quantity of calcined lime byproduct or waste sold.


(3) Beginning and end of year inventories for each lime product that is produced, by type.


(4) Beginning and end of year inventories for calcined lime byproducts or wastes sold, by type.


(5) Annual amount of calcined lime byproduct or waste sold, by type (tons).


(6) Annual amount of lime product sold, by type (tons).


(7) Annual amount of calcined lime byproduct or waste that is not sold, by type (tons).


(8) Annual amount of lime product not sold, by type (tons).




(9) Annual arithmetic average of calcium oxide content for each type of lime product produced (metric tons CaO/metric ton lime).


(10) Annual arithmetic average of magnesium oxide content for each type of lime product produced (metric tons MgO/metric ton lime).


(11) Annual arithmetic average of calcium oxide content for each type of calcined lime byproduct/waste sold (metric tons CaO/metric ton lime).


(12) Annual arithmetic average of magnesium oxide content for each type of calcined lime byproduct/waste sold (metric tons MgO/metric ton lime).


(13) Annual arithmetic average of calcium oxide content for each type of calcined lime byproduct/waste not sold (metric tons CaO/metric ton lime).


(14) Annual arithmetic average of magnesium oxide content for each type of calcined lime byproduct/waste not sold (metric tons MgO/metric ton lime)


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (23) of this section.




(1) Annual CO_2_ process emissions from all lime kilns combined (metric tons).


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) Standard method used (ASTM or NLA testing method) to determine chemical compositions of each lime type produced and each calcined lime byproduct or waste type.


(5)-(6) [Reserved]


(7) Method used to determine the quantity of lime produced and/or lime sold.


(8) [Reserved]


(9) Method used to determine the quantity of calcined lime byproduct or waste sold.


(10)-(12) [Reserved]


(13) Beginning and end of year inventories for each lime product that is produced.


(14) Beginning and end of year inventories for calcined lime byproducts or wastes sold.


(15) Annual lime production capacity (tons) per facility.


(16) Number of times in the reporting year that missing data procedures were followed to measure lime production (months) or the chemical composition of lime products sold (months).


(17) Indicate whether CO_2_ was captured and used on-site (*e.g.,* for use in a purification process, the manufacture of another product). If CO_2_ was captured and used on-site, provide the information in paragraphs (b)(17)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The annual amount of CO_2_ captured for use in all on-site processes.


(ii) The method used to determine the amount of CO_2_ captured.








(18) Annual quantity (tons) of lime product sold, by type.


(19) Annual average emission factors for each lime product type produced.


(20) Annual average emission factors for each calcined byproduct/waste by lime type that is sold.


(21) Annual average results of chemical composition analysis of each type of lime product produced and calcined byproduct/waste sold.


(22) Annual average results of chemical composition analysis of all lime byproducts or wastes not sold.


(23) Annual quantity (tons) of all lime byproducts or wastes not sold.





---

[N] [75 FR 66465, Oct. 28, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 71959, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63792, Oct. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89259, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31928, Apr. 25, 2024]




