# § 502.92   Exemption procedures—general.

(a) *Authority.* The Commission, upon application or on its own motion, may by order or regulation exempt for the future any class of agreements between persons subject to the Shipping Act of 1984 or any specified activity of those persons from any requirement of the Act if the Commission finds that the exemption will not result in substantial reduction in competition or be detrimental to commerce. The Commission may attach conditions to any exemption and may, by order, revoke any exemption.


(b) *Application for exemption.* Any person may petition the Commission for an exemption or revocation of an exemption of any class of agreements or an individual agreement or any specified activity pursuant to section 16 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. 40103). A petition for exemption must state the particular requirement of the Shipping Act of 1984 for which exemption is sought. The petition must also include a statement of the reasons why an exemption should be granted or revoked, must provide information relevant to any finding required by the Act and must comply with § 502.76. Where a petition for exemption of an individual agreement is made, the application must include a copy of the agreement. Unless a petition specifically requests an exemption by regulation, the Commission must evaluate the petition as a request for an exemption by order.


(c) *Participation by interested persons.* No order or regulation of exemption or revocation of exemption may be issued unless opportunity for hearing has been afforded interested persons and departments and agencies of the United States.


(d) _Federal Register_ notice. Notice of any proposed exemption or revocation of exemption, whether upon petition or the Commission's own motion, must be published in the _Federal Register._ The notice must include when applicable:


(1) A short title for the proposed exemption or the title of the existing exemption;


(2) The identity of the party proposing the exemption or seeking revocation;


(3) A concise summary of the agreement or class of agreements or specified activity for which exemption is sought, or the exemption which is to be revoked;


(4) A statement that the petition and any accompanying information are available for inspection in the Commission's offices in Washington, DC; and


(5) The final date for filing comments regarding the proposal. [Rule 74.]



---

[N] [49 FR 44369, Nov. 6, 1984. Redesignated at 81 FR 93836, Dec. 22, 2016]




