# ยง 60.181   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part. 


(a) *Primary lead smelter* means any installation or any intermediate process engaged in the production of lead from lead sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques. 


(b) *Sintering machine* means any furnace in which a lead sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate sulfur contained in the charge and to agglomerate the charge into a hard porous mass called *sinter.*

(c) *Sinter bed* means the lead sulfide ore concentrate charge within a sintering machine. 


(d) *Sintering machine discharge end* means any apparatus which receives sinter as it is discharged from the conveying grate of a sintering machine. 


(e) *Blast furnace* means any reduction furnace to which sinter is charged and which forms separate layers of molten slag and lead bullion. 


(f) *Dross reverberatory furnace* means any furnace used for the removal or refining of impurities from lead bullion. 


(g) *Electric smelting furnace* means any furnace in which the heat necessary for smelting of the lead sulfide ore concentrate charge is generated by passing an electric current through a portion of the molten mass in the furnace. 


(h) *Converter* means any vessel to which lead concentrate or bullion is charged and refined. 


(i) *Sulfuric acid plant* means any facility producing sulfuric acid by the contact process. 




