# § 1313.22   Export declaration.

(a) Any List I or List II chemical listed in § 1310.02 of this chapter which meets or exceeds the quantitative threshold criteria established in § 1310.04(f) of this chapter or is a listed chemical for which no threshold has been established as identified in § 1310.04(g) of this chapter, may be exported if that chemical is needed for medical, commercial, scientific, or other legitimate uses.


(b) The export declaration (DEA Form 486) must include all the following information:


(1) The name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the chemical exporter; the name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the export broker, if any;


(2) The name and description of each listed chemical as it appears on the label or container, the name of each listed chemical as it is designated in § 1310.02 of this chapter, the size or weight of container, the number of containers, the net weight of each listed chemical given in kilograms or parts thereof, and the gross weight of the shipment given in kilograms or parts thereof;


(3) The anticipated date of release by a customs officer at the port of export, the port of export, and the foreign port and country of entry; and


(4) The name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (*e.g.,* telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) of the consignee in the country where the chemical shipment is destined; the name(s) and address(es) of any intermediate consignee(s); and a copy of the foreign permit, license or registration issued by the competent national authority of the consignee and any intermediate consignees.


(c) Declared exports of listed chemicals which are refused, rejected, or otherwise deemed undeliverable by the foreign competent national authority may be returned to the U.S. chemical exporter of record. The regulated person must provide notification through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application (this does not require a DEA Form 486) outlining the circumstances within a reasonable time following the return. Upon receipt and review, the Administration will assign the completed notice a transaction identification number. The notice will not be deemed filed until the Administration issues a transaction identification number. Listed chemicals so returned may not be reexported until the exporter has filed a new DEA Form 486 and the Administration has issued a new transaction identification number. This provision does not apply to shipments that have cleared foreign customs, been delivered, and accepted by the foreign consignee. Returns to third parties in the United States will be regarded as imports.



---

[N] [81 FR 97038, Dec. 30, 2016]




