# ยง 37.93   Approval of spirometry facilities.

(a) *Application for facility approval.* Facilities seeking approval to provide the spirometry testing specified under this subpart must have the ability to provide spirometry of high technical quality. Thus, NIOSH-approved facilities must meet the requirements specified in this subpart for the following activities: Training of technicians who perform the tests; conducting spirometry tests using equipment and procedures that meet required specifications; collecting the respiratory assessment form; transmitting data to NIOSH; and communicating with miners as required for scheduling, testing, and notification of results. Facilities seeking approval may apply to NIOSH using the Spirometry Facility Certification document (CDC/NIOSH 2.14).


(b) *Spirometry quality assurance.* A spirometry quality assurance program must be in place to minimize the rate of invalid test results. This program must include all of the following components:


(1) *Instrument calibration checks.* Testing personnel must fully comply with the 2005 ATS/ERS Standardisation of Spirometry guidelines for instrument calibration check procedures, pp. 322-323, including Table 3 (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 37.98).


(i) For volume spirometers, calibration check procedures must include daily (day of testing) leak and volume accuracy checks. In addition, volume linearity checks must be performed according to the frequency established by the 2005 ATS/ERS guidelines.


(ii) For flow-type spirometers, calibration must be checked daily by injecting 3 liters of air from a calibration syringe at 3 different speeds (fast, medium, slow). Flow linearity must be checked weekly as established by the 2005 ATS/ERS guidelines.


(iii) Instrument calibration check records must be maintained by the facility and available for inspection by NIOSH, as deemed necessary.


(2) *Automated maneuver and test session quality checks.* The spirometer software must automatically perform quality assurance checks on expiratory maneuvers during each spirometry testing session. Screen displayed error messages must alert the technician to maneuver acceptability and test session non-repeatability. Each spirometry test session must have the goal of obtaining 3 acceptable with 2 repeatable forced vital capacity maneuvers, as defined by the 2005 ATS/ERS Standardisation of Spirometry, p. 325 (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 37.98).


(3) *Ongoing monitoring of test quality.* Facilities must submit spirometry results to NIOSH within 14 calendar days of testing as specified in ยง 37.96(c) to permit NIOSH to monitor test quality and provide a results report to each miner. NIOSH may provide quality performance feedback to the appropriate technician(s) along with suggestions for improvement.


(4) *Quality assurance audits.* NIOSH may periodically conduct audits to review tests submitted by approved facilities and assess the quality of spirometry provided. Such audits may include a review of all spirometry data obtained during a specified time period or review of spirometry test data collected over time on selected miners.


(c) *Noncompliance.* If NIOSH determines that a facility is not compliant with the policies and procedures specified in this subpart, or determines as the result of a quality assurance audit as specified in this section that a facility is not performing spirometry of adequate quality, the facility will be notified of the deficiency. The facility must promptly make appropriate arrangements for the deficiency to be rectified.


(d) *Revocation of approval.* If a facility fails to rectify deficiencies within 60 days of notification, NIOSH approval of the facility may be revoked. An approval which has been revoked may be reinstated at the discretion of NIOSH after it receives satisfactory assurances and evidence that all deficiencies have been corrected and that effective controls have been instituted by the facility to prevent a recurrence.


(e) *Maintenance of records.* When conducting spirometry tests pursuant to this subpart, physicians and facilities must maintain the results and analyses of these tests (including any hard copies or digital files containing individual data, such as interpretations) in a manner consistent with applicable statutes and regulations governing the handling and protection of individually identifiable health information, including, as applicable, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules (45 CFR part 160 and 45 CFR part 164, subparts A, C, and E).



---

[N] [81 FR 73287, Oct. 24, 2016]




