# § 321.3   Procedure for qualifying and serving as paying agent.

(a) *Execution of application-agreement.* (1) An eligible organization wishing to act as a paying agent shall obtain from, execute, and file an application-agreement with a TRS Site. The terms of each application-agreement shall include a reference to the following provisions to which paying agents are subject:


(i) The provisions prescribed by section 202 of Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity”, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e note); and


(ii) The provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a), and regulations issued pursuant thereto (31 CFR part 1, subpart C).


(2) For the purpose of these regulations, all eligible institutions shall make application to a TRS Site.


(b) *Qualification.* A TRS Site, as fiscal agent of the United States, is authorized to qualify any eligible organization that possesses adequate authority under its charter to act as paying agent. Upon approval of an application-agreement, a TRS Site will issue a certificate of qualification to the organization. Such a certificate automatically qualifies the branches of the organization to redeem securities as provided in this part.


(c) *Announcement of authority.* Upon receipt of a certificate of qualification from a TRS Site, a financial institution may announce or advertise its authority to redeem eligible securities for cash and to process eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for redemption in exchange for Series HH savings bonds under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352).


(d) *Adverse action.* A TRS Site will notify an organization in writing if its application-agreement to act as paying agent is not approved.



---

[N] [53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35395, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10537, Mar. 4, 1994; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998; 77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]




