# ยง 785.17   Settlement.

(a) *Settlements before issuance of a NOVA.* When the parties have agreed to a settlement of the case prior to issuance of a NOVA, a settlement proposal consisting of a settlement agreement and order will be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement for approval and signature. If the Assistant Secretary does not approve the proposal, he/she will notify the parties and the case will proceed as though no settlement proposal has been made. If the Assistant Secretary approves the proposal, he/she will issue an appropriate order, and no action will be required by the ALJ.


(b) *Settlements following issuance of a NOVA.* The parties may enter into settlement negotiations at any time during the time a case is pending before the ALJ. If necessary, the parties may extend applicable time limitations or otherwise request that the ALJ stay the proceedings while settlement negotiations continue. When the parties have agreed to a settlement of the case, the Office of Chief Counsel will recommend the settlement to the Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement, forwarding a proposed settlement agreement and order, which the Assistant Secretary will approve and sign. If a NOVA has been filed, the Office of Chief Counsel will send a copy of the settlement proposal to the ALJ.


(c) *Settlement scope.* Any respondent who agrees to an order imposing any administrative sanction does so solely for the purpose of resolving the claims in the administrative enforcement proceeding brought under this Part. The government officials involved have neither the authority nor the responsibility for initiating, conducting, settling, or otherwise disposing of criminal proceedings. That authority and responsibility are vested in the Attorney General and the Department of Justice.


(d) *Finality.* Cases that are settled may not be reopened or appealed, absent a showing of good cause. Appeals and requests to reopen settled cases must be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement within 30 calendar days of the execution of a settlement agreement.




