# § 747.2003   Review of order reclassifying a credit union on safety and soundness criteria.

(a) *Notice of proposed reclassification based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice.* When the NCUA Board proposes to reclassify a credit union or subject it to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower net worth category pursuant to §§ 702.102(b) and 702.202(d) of this chapter (each such action hereinafter referred to as “reclassification”), the NCUA Board shall issue and serve on the credit union reasonable prior notice of the proposed reclassification. 


(b) *Contents of notice.* A notice of intention to reclassify a credit union based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice shall state: 


(1) The credit union's net worth ratio, current net worth category classification, and the net worth category to which the credit union would be reclassified; 


(2) The unsafe or unsound practice(s) and/or condition(s) justifying reasons for reclassification of the credit union; 


(3) The date by which the credit union must file a written response to the notice (including a request for a hearing), which date shall be no less than 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the NCUA Board determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the credit union or other relevant circumstances; and


(4) That a credit union which fails to—


(i) File a written response to the notice of reclassification, within the specified time period, shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to reclassification; 


(ii) Request a hearing shall be deemed to have waived any right to a hearing; and 


(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony shall be deemed to have waived any right to present such testimony. 


(c) *Contents of response to notice.* A credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must: 


(1) Explain why it contends that the credit union should not be reclassified; 


(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the credit union's position; 


(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the NCUA Board under this section; and


(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the credit union wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.


(d) *Order to hold informal hearing.* Upon timely receipt of a written response that includes a request for a hearing, the NCUA Board shall issue an order commencing an informal hearing no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the credit union requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the NCUA Board, before a presiding officer designated by the NCUA Board to conduct the hearing and to recommend a decision.


(e) *Procedures for informal hearing.* (1) The credit union may appear at the hearing through a representative or through counsel. The credit union shall have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. The credit union may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the NCUA Board or the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) shall apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the NCUA Board orders otherwise.


(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the credit union upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.


(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record. 


(4) Within 20 calendar days following the closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer shall make a recommendation to the NCUA Board on the proposed reclassification.


(f) *Time for final decision.* Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of receipt of the credit union's response in a case where no hearing was requested, the NCUA Board will decide whether to reclassify the credit union, and will notify the credit union of its decision. The decision of the NCUA Board shall be final. 


(g) *Request to rescind reclassification.* Any credit union that has been reclassified under this section may file a written request to the NCUA Board to reconsider or rescind the reclassification, or to modify, rescind or remove any directives issued as a result of the reclassification. Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the credit union shall remain reclassified, and subject to any directives issued as a result, while such request is pending.


(h) *Non-delegation.* The NCUA Board may not delegate its authority to reclassify a credit union into a lower net worth category or to treat a credit union as if it were in a lower net worth category pursuant to § 702.102(b) or § 702.302(d) of this chapter.



---

[N] [65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010; 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015]




