# § 2.92   Institution of ex parte expungement and reexamination proceedings.

Notwithstanding section 7(b) of the Act, the Director may institute a proceeding for expungement or reexamination of a registration of a mark, either upon petition or upon the Director's initiative, upon determining that information and evidence supports a prima facie case of nonuse of the mark for some or all of the goods or services identified in the registration. The electronic record of the registration for which a proceeding has been instituted forms part of the record of the proceeding without any action by the Office, a petitioner, or a registrant.


(a) *Institution upon petition.* For each good and/or service identified in a complete petition under § 2.91, the Director will determine if the petition sets forth a prima facie case of nonuse to support the petition basis and, if so, will institute an ex parte expungement or reexamination proceeding.


(b) *Institution upon the Director's initiative.* The Director may institute an ex parte expungement or reexamination proceeding on the Director's own initiative, within the time periods set forth in § 2.91(b), and for the reasons set forth in § 2.91(a), based on information that supports a prima facie case for expungement or reexamination of a registration for some or all of the goods or services identified in the registration.


(c) *Director's authority.* (1) Any determination by the Director whether to institute an expungement or reexamination proceeding shall be final and non-reviewable.


(2) The Director may institute an expungement and/or reexamination proceeding for fewer than all of the goods and/or services identified in a petition under § 2.91. The identification of particular goods and/or services in a petition does not limit the Director from instituting a proceeding that includes additional goods and/or services identified in the subject registration on the Director's own initiative, under paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Estoppel.* (1) Upon termination of an expungement proceeding under § 2.93(c)(3), including after any appeal, where it has been determined that the registered mark was used in commerce on or in connection with any of the goods and/or services at issue in the proceedings prior to the date a petition to expunge was filed under § 2.91 or the Director-initiated proceedings under this section, no further expungement proceedings may be instituted as to those particular goods and/or services.


(2) Upon termination of a reexamination proceeding under § 2.93(c)(3), including after any appeal, where it is has been determined that the registered mark was used in commerce on or in connection with any of the goods and/or services at issue, on or before the relevant date established in the proceedings, no further expungement or reexamination proceedings may be instituted as to those particular goods and/or services.


(3) With respect to a particular registration, once an expungement proceeding has been instituted and is pending, no later expungement proceeding may be instituted with respect to the same goods and/or services at issue in the pending proceeding.


(4) With respect to a particular registration, while a reexamination proceeding is pending, no later expungement or reexamination proceeding may be instituted with respect to the same goods and/or services at issue in the pending proceeding.


(e) *Consolidated proceedings.* (1) The Director may consolidate expungement and reexamination proceedings involving the same registration. Consolidated proceedings will be considered related parallel proceedings.


(2) If two or more petitions under § 2.91 are directed to the same registration and are pending concurrently, or the Director wishes to institute an ex parte expungement or reexamination proceeding on the Director's own initiative under paragraph (b) of this section concerning a registration for which one or more petitions under § 2.91 are pending, the Director may elect to institute a single proceeding.


(3) Unless barred under paragraph (d) of this section, if any expungement or reexamination proceeding is instituted while a prior expungement or reexamination proceeding directed to the same registration is pending, the Director may consolidate the proceedings.


(f) *Notice of Director's determination whether to institute proceedings.* (1) In a determination based on a petition under § 2.91, if the Director determines that no prima facie case of nonuse has been made and thus no proceeding will be instituted, notice of this determination will be provided to the registrant and petitioner, including information to access the petition and supporting documents and evidence.


(2) If the Director determines that a proceeding should be instituted based on a prima facie case of nonuse of a registered mark as to any goods and/or services recited in the registration, or consolidates proceedings under paragraph (e) of this section, the Director's determination and notice of the institution of the proceeding will be set forth in an Office action under § 2.93(a). If a proceeding is instituted based in whole or in part on a petition under § 2.91, the Office action will include information to access any petition and the supporting documents and evidence that formed the basis for the Director's determination to institute. Notice of the Director's determination will also be provided to the petitioner.


(g) *Other mark types.* (1) Registrations subject to expungement and reexamination proceedings include collective trademarks, collective service marks, and certification marks.


(2) The use that is the subject of the inquiry in expungement and reexamination proceedings for these mark types is defined in § 2.2(k)(2) for collective trademarks and collective service marks, and § 2.2(k)(4) for certification marks.



---

[N] [86 FR 64328, Nov. 17, 2021]




