# § 5511.1-1   Free use of timber on mineral and nonmineral public lands.

(a) *Lands on which timber may be cut.* Free-use permits to cut timber may be issued covering public lands as follows: 


(1) Mineral lands, unoccupied and unreserved and not subject to entry under existing laws of the United States, except for mineral entry, in the States of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming. (Act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 88; 16 U.S.C. 604 through 606); 


(2) Nonmineral, unoccupied, and unreserved public lands in the States mentioned and also in the States of California, Oregon, and Washington. 


(b) *Kind of timber which may be cut.* The proper protection of the timber and undergrowth necessarily varies with the nature of the topography, soil, and forest. No timber not matured may be cut, and each tree taken must be utilized for some beneficial domestic purpose. Persons taking timber for specific purposes will be required to take only such matured trees as will work up to such purpose without unreasonable waste. Stumps will be cut so as to cause the least possible waste and all trees will be utilized to as low a diameter in the tops as possible. All brush, tops, logs, and other forest debris made in felling and removing timber under this section shall be disposed of as best adapted to the protection of the remaining growth and in such manner as shall be prescribed by the authorized officer, and failure on the part of the applicant, or an agent cutting for an applicant, to comply with this requirement will render him liable for all expenses incurred by the authorized officer in putting this regulation into effect. 


(c) *Area of land to be cut over.* The permits shall limit the area of cutting to embrace only so much land as is necessary to produce the quantity of timber applied for. 


(d) *Use which may be made of timber.* Timber may be cut under approved permit when actually needed for firewood, fencing, building, or other agricultural, mining, manufacturing, and domestic purposes. 


(e) *Exportation of timber.* Timber may not be exported from the State in which it is cut except:


(1) Timber from a specified area in Wyoming may be exported into Idaho (Act of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 618; 16 U.S.C. 607, 611); 


(2) Timber from a specified area in Montana may be exported into Wyoming (Act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1439; 16 U.S.C. 607, 613); 


(3) Under the Act of March 3, 1919 (40 Stat. 1321; 16 U.S.C. 608), citizens of Malheur County, Oregon, may cut timber in Idaho and remove such timber to Malheur County, Oregon;


(4) Under the Act of March 3, 1919 (40 Stat. 1322; 16 U.S.C. 609), citizens of Modoc County, California, may cut timber in Nevada and remove such timber to Modoc County, California;


(5) Timber from a specified area in Arizona may be exported into Utah (Act of February 27, 1922, 42 Stat. 398; 16 U.S.C. 610);


(6) Citizens of Bear Lake County, Idaho, may cut timber from public lands in Lincoln County, Wyoming, and remove such timber to Bear Lake County, Idaho, but no live standing timber may be taken without compensation (Act of August 21, 1935, 49 Stat. 665; 16 U.S.C. 611a). 


(f) *Application and permit*—(1) *Information to be furnished by applicant.* (i) Applications should be filed in duplicate and should set forth the names and post-office addresses of the applicants, and any agent or agents who may be employed to procure the timber. Where a corporation is the applicant, the State in which it was incorporated should also be shown. 


(ii) Blank forms for making application may be procured from the State Director for the State in which the timber to be removed is located. 


(iii) Applications should show the amount of timber required by each applicant; the use to be made thereof; a description of the land from which the timber is to be cut, by subdivision, section, township, and range, if surveyed, or by natural objects sufficient to identify the same if unsurveyed; and the date it is desired to begin cutting. 


(2) *Duration of permit.* All rights and privileges under a permit shall terminate at the expiration of the period of 1 year from the date of approval of the permit.


(g) *Agents*—(1) *Cutting of timber by agents.* Where one or more persons desire timber, and are not in a position to procure the same for themselves, an agent or agents may be appointed for that purpose. Such agent shall not be paid more than a fair recompense for the time, labor, and money expended in procuring the timber and manufacturing the same into lumber, and no charge shall be made for the timber itself. The said compensation must be set forth in a written contract to be entered into by the parties, and a copy thereof must be filed with the application. 


(2) *Cutting of timber by agent who is a sawmill operator.* If the amount of timber applied for exceeds $50 in stumpage value, for any continuous period of 12 months, and the timber is to be procured by an agent who is a sawmill operator, a bond equal to three times the amount of the stumpage value of the timber applied for will be required, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the requirements.



---

[N] [35 FR 9790, June 13, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 50450, Sept. 29, 1995]




