# § 63.9642   What records must I keep?

(a) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, you must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, you must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or notification of compliance status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(2) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required.


(3) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(4) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, the cause and duration of each failure.


(5) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(6) Record actions taken in accordance with the general duty requirements to minimize emissions in § 63.9600(a) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(b) For each COMS and CEMS, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.




(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).


(2) Monitoring data for COMS during a performance evaluation as required in § 63.6(h)(7)(i) and (ii).


(3) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, previous (that is, superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, previous (that is, superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.9632(b)(5), with the program of corrective action included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(4) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(5) If you use mercury CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission standard in table 2 of the subpart in accordance with § 63.9623(e), records of requests for alternatives to the relative accuracy test for CEMS as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i).




(c) You must keep the records required in §§ 63.9634 through 63.9636 to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement that applies to you.




(d) If you elect the mercury emissions averaging compliance alternative pursuant to § 63.9623(d), you must keep a copy of the emission averaging implementation plan required in § 63.9623(d)(2), records of the taconite pellet production rate for each furnace included in the averaging, and all calculations required under § 63.9634(m).




(e) If you elect to adjust the activated carbon injection rate based on the taconite pellet production rate in accordance with the provisions in § 63.9634(n), you must keep a copy of the activated carbon injection implementation plan and records of the taconite pellet production rate and activated carbon injection rate.




(f) If you use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emissions limits in table 2 to this subpart, you must keep records of the notifications required in § 63.9642(f).





---

[N] [68 FR 61888, Oct. 30, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 45500, July 28, 2020; 89 FR 16437, Mar. 6, 2024]




