# § 721.11696   Maltodextrin, polymer with 2-propenoic acid and N,N,N-trimethyl-2-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethanaminium chloride (1:1), sodium salt, peroxydisulfuric acid ([(HO)S(O)2]2O2) sodium salt (1:2)-initiated.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as maltodextrin, polymer with 2-propenoic acid and N,N,N-trimethyl-2-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethanaminium chloride (1:1), sodium salt, peroxydisulfuric acid ([(HO)S(O)2]2O2) sodium salt (1:2)-initiated (PMN P-20-58; CAS No. 1646857-41-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f) and (g)(1), (3), and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: specific target organ toxicity. For the purposes of § 721.72(g)(3), this substance may be: toxic to aquatic life. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), where N=102.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (h) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [88 FR 13701, Mar. 6, 2023]






