# § 417.810   Final settlement.

(a) *General requirement.* CMS and an HCPP must make a final settlement, and payment of amounts due either to the HCPP or to CMS, following the submission and review of the HCPP's annual cost report and the supporting documents specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Annual cost report as basis for final settlement*—(1) *Form and due date.* An HCPP must submit to CMS a cost report and supporting documents in the form and detail specified by CMS, no later than 120 days following the close of a reporting period.


(2) *Contents.* The report must include—


(i) The HCPP's per capita incurred costs of providing covered Part B services to its Medicare enrollees during the reporting period, including any costs incurred by another organization related to the HCPP by common ownership or control;


(ii) The HCPP's methods of apportioning costs among its Medicare enrollees, enrollees who are not Medicare beneficiaries, and other nonenrollees, including Medicare beneficiaries receiving health care services on a fee-for-service or other basis; and


(iii) Information on enrollment and other data as specified by CMS.


(3) *Extension of time to submit cost report.* CMS may grant an HCPP an extension of time to submit a cost report for good cause shown.


(4) *Failure to report required financial information.* If an HCPP does not submit the required cost report and supporting documents within the time specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and has not requested and received an extension of time for good cause shown, CMS may—


(i) Regard the failure to report this information as evidence of likely overpayment and reduce or suspend interim payments to the HCPP; and


(ii) Determine that amounts previously paid are overpayments, and make appropriate recovery.


(c) *Determination of final settlement.* Following the HCPP's submission of the reports specified in paragraph (b) of this section in acceptable form, CMS makes a determination of the total reimbursement due the HCPP for the reporting period and the difference, if any, between this amount and the total interim payments made to the HCPP. CMS sends to the HCPP a notice of the amount of reimbursement by the Medicare program. This notice—


(1) Explains CMS's determination of total reimbursement due the HCPP for the reporting period; and


(2) Informs the HCPP of its right to have the determination reviewed at a hearing in accordance with the requirements specified in § 405.1801(b)(2) of this chapter.


(d) *Payment of amounts due.* (1) Within 30 days of CMS's determination, CMS or the HCPP, as appropriate, will make payment of any difference between the total amount due and the total interim payments made to the HCPP by CMS.


(2) If the HCPP does not pay CMS within 30 days of CMS's determination of any amounts the HCPP owes CMS, CMS may offset further payments to the HCPP to recover, or to aid in the recovery of, any overpayment identified in its determination.


(3) Any offset of payments CMS makes under paragraph (d)(2) of this section will remain in effect even if the HCPP has requested a hearing in accordance with the requirements specified in § 405.1801(b)(2) of this chapter.


(e) *Tentative settlement.* (1) If a final settlement cannot be made within 90 days after the HCPP submits the report specified in paragraph (b) of this section, CMS will make an interim settlement by estimating the amount payable to the HCPP.


(2) CMS or the HCPP will make payment within 30 days of CMS's determination under the tentative settlement of any estimated amounts due.


(3) The tentative settlement is subject to adjustment at the time of a final settlement.



---

[N] [50 FR 1375, Jan. 10, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 38081, July 15, 1993; 73 FR 30267, May 23, 2008]




