# ยง 410.53   Marriage and family therapist services.

(a) *Definition: marriage and family therapist.* For purposes of this part, a marriage and family therapist is defined as an individual who -


(1) Possesses a master's or doctor's degree which qualifies for licensure or certification as a marriage and family therapist pursuant to State law of the State in which such individual furnishes the services defined as marriage and family therapist services;


(2) After obtaining such degree, has performed at least 2 years or 3,000 hours of post master's degree clinical supervised experience in marriage and family therapy in an appropriate setting such as a hospital, SNF, private practice, or clinic; and


(3) Is licensed or certified as a marriage and family therapist by the State in which the services are performed.


(b) *Covered marriage and family therapist services.* Medicare Part B covers marriage and family therapist services.


(1) *Definition: marriage and family therapist services* means services furnished by a marriage and family therapist (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) for the diagnosis and treatment of mental illnesses (other than services furnished to an inpatient of a hospital), which the marriage and family therapist is legally authorized to perform under State law (or the State regulatory mechanism provided by State law) of the State in which such services are furnished. The services must be of a type that would be covered if they were furnished by a physician or as an incident to a physician's professional service and must meet the requirements of this section.


(2) *Exception.* The following services are not marriage and family therapist services for purposes of billing Medicare Part B under the MFT and MHC statutory benefit category:


(i) Services furnished by a marriage and family therapist to an inpatient of a Medicare-participating hospital.


(ii) [Reserved]


(c) *Prohibited billing.* (1) A marriage and family therapist may not bill Medicare for the services specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) A marriage and family therapist or an attending or primary care physician may not bill Medicare or the beneficiary for the consultation that is required under paragraph(b)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 79526, Nov. 16, 2023]










