# ยง 206.365   Loan administration.

(a) *Funding.* (1) FEMA will disburse funds to the local government when requested, generally in accordance with the Schedule of Loan Increments in the Promissory Note. As funds are disbursed, interest will accrue against each disbursement.


(2) When each incremental disbursement is requested, the local government shall submit a copy of its most recent financial report (if not submitted previously) for consideration by FEMA in determining whether the level and frequency of periodic payments continue to be justified. The local government shall also provide the latest available data on anticipated and actual tax and other revenue collections. Desired adjustments in the disbursement schedule shall be submitted in writing at least 10 days prior to the proposed disbursement date in order to ensure timely receipt of the funds. A sinking fund should be established to amortize the debt.


(b) *Financial management.* (1) Each local government with an approved Community Disaster Loan shall establish necessary accounting records, consistent with local government's financial management system, to account for loan funds received and disbursed and to provide an audit trail.


(2) FEMA auditors, State auditors, the GAR, the Regional Administrator, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, and the Comptroller General of the United States or their duly authorized representatives shall, for the purpose of audits and examination, have access to any books, documents, papers, and records that pertain to Federal funds, equipments, and supplies received under these regulations.


(c) *Loan servicing.* (1) The applicant annually shall submit to FEMA copies of its annual financial reports (operating statements, balance sheets, etc.) for the fiscal year of the major disaster, and for each of the 3 subsequent fiscal years.


(2) The Disaster Assistance Directorate, will review the loan periodically. The purpose of the reevaluation is to determine whether projected revenue losses, disaster-related expenses, operating budgets, and other factors have changed sufficiently to warrant adjustment of the scheduled disbursement of the loan proceeds.


(3) The Disaster Assistance Directorate, shall provide each loan recipient with a loan status report on a quarterly basis. The recipient will notify FEMA of any changes of the responsible municipal official who executed the Promissory Note.


(d) *Inactive loans.* If no funds have been disbursed from the Treasury, and if the local government does not anticipate a need for such funds, the note may be cancelled at any time upon a written request through the State and Regional Office to FEMA. However, since only one loan may be approved, cancellation precludes submission of a second loan application request by the same local government for the same disaster.




