# ยง 891.540   Loan disbursement procedures.

(a) Disbursements of loan proceeds shall be made directly by HUD to or for the account of the Borrower and may be made through an approved lender, mortgage servicer, title insurance company, or other agent satisfactory to the Borrower and HUD. 


(b) All disbursements to the Borrower shall be made on a periodic basis in an amount not to exceed the HUD-approved cost of portions of construction or rehabilitation work completed and in place (except as modified in paragraph (d) of this section), minus the appropriate holdback, as determined by the field office. 


(c) Requisitions for loan disbursements shall be submitted by the Borrower on forms to be prescribed by the Assistant Secretary and shall be accompanied by such additional information as the field office may require in order to approve loan disbursements under subpart E of this part, including but not limited to evidence of compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act, Department of Labor regulations, all applicable zoning, building, and other governmental requirements, and such evidence of continued priority of the mortgage of the Borrower as the Assistant Secretary may prescribe. 


(d) In loan disbursements for building components stored off-site, the term *building component* shall mean any manufactured or preassembled part of a structure as defined by HUD and that the Assistant Secretary has designated for off-site storage because it is of such size or weight that storage of the components required for timely construction progress at the construction site is impractical, or weather damage or other adverse conditions prevailing at the construction site would make storage at the site impractical or unduly costly. Each building component must be specifically identified for incorporation into the property as provided under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(1) *Storage.* (i) A loan disbursement may be made for up to 90 percent of the invoice value (to exclude costs of transportation and storage) of the building components stored off-site if the components are stored at a location approved by HUD. 


(ii) Each building component shall be adequately marked so as to be readily identifiable in the inventory of the off-site location. It shall be kept together with all other building components of the same manufacturer intended for use in the same project for which loan disbursements have been made and separate and apart from similar units not for use in the project. 


(iii) Storage costs, if any, shall be borne the general contractor. 


(2) *Responsibility for transportation, storage and insurance of off-site building components.* The general contractor of the project shall have the responsibility for: 


(i) Insuring the components in the name of the Borrower while in transit and storage; and 


(ii) Delivering or contracting for the delivery of the components to the storage area and to the construction site, including payment of freight. 


(3) *Loan disbursements.* (i) Before a loan disbursement for a building component stored off-site is made, the Borrower shall: 


(A) Obtain a bill of sale for the component; 


(B) Provide HUD with a security agreement pledged by a first lien on the building components with the exception of such other liens or encumbrances as may be approved by HUD; and 


(C) File a financing statement in accordance with the Uniform Commercial Code. 


(ii) Before each loan disbursement for building components stored off-site is made the manufacturer and the general contractor shall certify to HUD that the components, in their intended use, comply with HUD-approved contract plan and specifications. 


(iii) Loan disbursements may be made only for components stored off-site in a quantity required to permit uninterrupted installation at the site. 


(iv) At no time shall the invoice value of building components being stored off-site, for which advances have been insured, represent more than 25 percent of the total estimated construction costs for the insured mortgaged project as specified in the construction contract. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and other regulatory requirements that set bonding requirements, the percentage of total estimated construction costs insured by advances under this section may exceed 25 percent but not 50 percent if the mortgagor furnishes assurance of completion in the form of a corporate surety bond for the payment and performance each in the amount of 100 percent of the amount of the construction contract. In no event will insurance of components stored off-site be made in the absence of a payment and performance bond. 


(v) No single loan disbursement which is to be made shall be in an amount less than ten thousand ($10,000) dollars. 




