# ยง 285.710   When conducting onsite installation inspections, what must the CVA or project engineer do?

(a) To comply with ยง 285.708(a)(4), the CVA or project engineer must make periodic onsite inspections while installation is in progress and must, as appropriate, verify, witness, survey, or check the installation and commissioning of items required by this section.


(b) The CVA or project engineer must verify, as appropriate, all of the following:


(1) Loadout and initial flotation procedures;


(2) Towing operation procedures to the specified location, including a review of the towing records;


(3) Launching and uprighting activities;


(4) Submergence activities;


(5) Pile or anchor installations;


(6) Installation of mooring, tendon, and tethering systems;


(7) Final deck and component installations;


(8) Installation at the locations set forth in your FDR(s) and FIR(s); and


(9) Commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.


(c) For a fixed or floating facility, the CVA or project engineer must verify that proper procedures were used during the following:


(1) The loadout of the jacket, decks, piles, or structures from each fabrication site;


(2) The actual installation of the facility or major modification and the related installation activities; and


(3) Commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.


(d) For a floating facility, the CVA or project engineer must verify structural integrity, stability, and ballast, and that proper procedures were used during the following:


(1) The loadout of the facility;


(2) The installation of foundation pilings and templates, and anchoring systems; and


(3) The installation of the mooring and tethering and tendon systems.


(e) The CVA or project engineer must conduct an onsite inspection of the installed facility as approved in your CVA scope of work.


(f) The CVA or project engineer must make periodic onsite inspections to witness the commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment in order to verify that:


(1) The Critical Safety Systems and Equipment function as designed; and


(2) The final commissioning Critical Safety Systems and Equipment records are complete.


(g) The CVA or project engineer must spot-check the equipment, procedures, and recordkeeping as necessary to determine compliance with the applicable documents incorporated by reference and the regulations under this part.



---

[N] [89 FR 42719, May 15, 2024]




