# ยง 180.1071   Peanuts, Tree Nuts, Milk, Soybeans, Eggs, Fish, Crustacea, and Wheat; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.

(a) *General.* Residues resulting from the following uses of the food commodity forms of peanuts, tree nuts, milk, soybeans, eggs (including putrescent eggs), fish, crustacea, and wheat are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance in or on all food commodities under FFDCA section 408 (when used as either an inert or an active ingredient in a pesticide formulation), if such use is in accordance with good agricultural practices:


(1) Use in pesticide products intended to treat seeds.


(2) Use in nursery and greenhouse operations, as defined in 40 CFR 170.3, which includes seeding, potting and transplanting activities.


(3) Pre-plant and at-transplant applications.


(4) Incorporation into seedling and planting beds.


(5) Applications to cuttings and bare roots.


(6) Applications to the field that occur after the harvested crop has been removed.


(7) Soil-directed applications around and adjacent to all plants.


(8) Applications to rangelands, which is land, mostly grasslands, whose plants can provide food (*i.e.*, forage) for grazing or browsing animals.


(9) Use in chemigation and irrigation systems (via flood, drip, or furrow application with no overhead spray applications).


(10) Application as part of a dry fertilizer on which an active ingredient is impregnated.


(11) Aerial and ground applications that occur when no above-ground harvestable food commodities are present (usually pre-bloom).


(12) Application as part of an animal feed-through product.


(13) Applications as gel and solid (non-liquid/non-spray) crack and crevice treatments that place the gel or bait directly into or on top of the cracks and crevices via a mechanism such as a syringe.


(14) Applications to the same crop from which the food commodity is derived, whether the plant fraction(s) intended for harvest are present or not, e.g., applications of peanut meal when applied to peanut plants.


(b) *Specific chemical substances.* Residues resulting from the use of the following substances as either an inert or an active ingredient in a pesticide formulation are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance under FFDCA section 408, if such use is in accordance with good agricultural practices and such use is included in paragraph (a):



---

[N] [70 FR 1360, Jan. 7, 2005]




