# § 58.16   Data submittal and archiving requirements.

(a) The state, or where appropriate, local agency, shall report to the Administrator, via AQS all ambient air quality data and associated quality assurance data for SO_2_; CO; O_3_; NO_2_; NO; NO_y_; NO_X_; Pb-TSP mass concentration; Pb-PM_10_ mass concentration; PM_10_ mass concentration; PM_2.5_ mass concentration; for filter-based PM_2.5_ FRM/FEM, the field blank mass; chemically speciated PM_2.5_ mass concentration data; PM_10-2.5_ mass concentration; meteorological data from NCore and PAMS sites; and metadata records and information specified by the AQS Data Coding Manual (*https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2015-09/documents/aqs_data_coding_manual_0.pdf*). Air quality data and information must be submitted directly to the AQS via electronic transmission on the specified schedule described in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.




(b) The specific quarterly reporting periods are January 1-March 31, April 1-June 30, July 1-September 30, and October 1-December 31. The data and information reported for each reporting period must contain all data and information gathered during the reporting period, and be received in the AQS within 90 days after the end of the quarterly reporting period. For example, the data for the reporting period January 1-March 31 are due on or before June 30 of that year.


(c) Air quality data submitted for each reporting period must be edited, validated, and entered into the AQS (within the time limits specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section) pursuant to appropriate AQS procedures. The procedures for editing and validating data are described in the AQS Data Coding Manual and in each monitoring agency's quality assurance project plan.


(d) The state shall report VOC and if collected, carbonyl, NH_3_, and HNO_3_ data from PAMS sites, and chemically speciated PM_2.5_ mass concentration data to AQS within 6 months following the end of each quarterly reporting period listed in paragraph (b) of this section.




(e) The State shall also submit any portion or all of the SLAMS and SPM data to the appropriate Regional Administrator upon request.


(f) The state, or where applicable, local agency shall archive all PM _2.5_, PM _10_, and PM _10-2.5_ filters from manual low-volume samplers (samplers having flow rates less than 200 liters/minute) from all SLAMS sites for a minimum period of 5 years after collection. These filters shall be made available for supplemental analyses, including destructive analyses if necessary, at the request of EPA or to provide information to state and local agencies on particulate matter composition. Other Federal agencies may request access to filters for purposes of supporting air quality management or community health—such as biological assay—through the applicable EPA Regional Administrator. The filters shall be archived according to procedures approved by the Administrator, which shall include cold storage of filters after post-sampling laboratory analyses for at least 12 months following field sampling. The EPA recommends that particulate matter filters be archived for longer periods, especially for key sites in making NAAQS-related decisions or for supporting health-related air pollution studies.


(g) Any State or, where applicable, local agency operating a continuous SO_2_ analyzer shall report the maximum 5-minute SO_2_ block average of the twelve 5-minute block averages in each hour, in addition to the hourly SO_2_ average.



---

[N] [71 FR 61298, Oct. 17, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 67059, Nov. 12, 2008; 75 FR 6534, Feb. 9, 2010; 75 FR 35602, June 22, 2010; 78 FR 3283, Jan. 15, 2013; 81 FR 17280, Mar. 28, 2016]




