# § 7.36   Mammoth Cave National Park.

(a) *Fishing*—(1) *General.* Trot and throw lines shall contain hooks which are spaced at least 30 inches apart.


(2) *Seines.* (i) The use of seines is permitted only in the following runs and creeks to catch minnows and crawfish for bait: Bylew, First, Second, Pine, Big Hollow, Buffalo, Ugly, Cub, Blowing Spring, Floating Mill Branch, Dry Branch, and Mill Branch. 


(ii) Seines shall not exceed 4 × 6 feet and the mesh shall not be larger than one-quarter inch. 


(3) *Live bait.* (i) Worms are the only form of live bait which may be used in the Sloans Crossing Pond (also known as Beaver Pond), Green Pond, Doyle Pond, and First Creek Lake. Live minnows and worms may be used in all other waters. 


(ii) [Reserved]


(b)(1) *Cave entry.* Except for those portions of the caves open to the general public, no person shall enter any cave within the boundaries of the park without first obtaining a permit from the Superintendent. Permits will be issued to persons who are qualified and experienced in cave exploration, who possess the needed equipment for safe entry and travel, and who are engaged in scientific research projects which in the opinion of the Superintendent are compatible with the purpose for which the park was established.


(2) Persons on guided cave tours must stay on the established designated trails and remain with the guides and tour group at all times. Exploration of side passages, going ahead of the lead guide and tour group or dropping behind the following guide or tour group is prohibited.


(3) Persons on “self-guided” or “semi-guided” cave tours must stay in the established, designated trails at all times. Exploration of side passages or taking alternate routes is prohibited.


(c) *Bicycles.* (1) The following trails are designated as routes open to bicycle use:


(i) Connector Trail from the Big Hollow Trailhead to the Maple Springs Trailhead;


(ii) Big Hollow Trail;


(iii) Mammoth Cave Railroad Bike & Hike Trail; and


(iv) White Oak Trail.


(2) The following are prohibited:


(i) Possessing a bicycle on routes or trails not designated as open to bicycle use;


(ii) Unless posted otherwise, operating a bicycle in excess of 15 miles per hour on designated routes; and


(iii) Failing to yield the right of way to horses or hikers.


(3) The Superintendent may open or close designated bicycle routes, or portions thereof, or impose conditions or restrictions for bicycle use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.


(i) The Superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7 of this chapter.


(ii) Violating a closure, condition, or restriction is prohibited.



---

[N] [36 FR 506, Jan. 14, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 31454, June 21, 1977; 48 FR 30295, June 30, 1983; 77 FR 56123, Sept. 12, 2012]




