# § 1222.53   Exemption from assessment.

(a) *Minimum quantity exemption.* (1) Manufacturers that manufacture less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year are exempt from paying assessments. Such manufacturers must apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the marketing year. This is an annual exemption and manufacturers must reapply each year. Such manufacturers shall certify that they will manufacture less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past manufacturing data to support the exemption request. The Board will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible manufacturer. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.


(2) Importers that import into the United States less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year are exempt from paying assessments. This is an annual exemption and importers must qualify each year.


(i) Importers that imported less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year shall automatically be considered exempt during the upcoming marketing year. Customs data will be reviewed to verify applicable importers.


(ii) Importers that imported more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year, but believe and can document that they will import less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the upcoming marketing year, may apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the fiscal year. Such importers shall certify that they will import less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past import data and other documentation to support the exemption request. The Board will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible importer. It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.


(iii) The Board shall refund such importers considered exempt their assessments as collected by Customs no later than 60 calendar days after receipt of such assessments by the Board. The Board will stop refund of assessments to such importers who during the marketing year import more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper based packaging. These importers will be notified accordingly. No interest shall be paid on the assessments collected by Customs or the Board.


(3) Manufacturers that did not apply to the Board for an exemption and that manufactured less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall automatically receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year. Board staff shall determine the assessments paid and refund the amount due to the manufacturer accordingly.


(4) Importers that did not apply to the Board for an exemption, imported more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year, and that imported less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall automatically receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year.


(5) If an entity is a manufacturer and an importer, such entity's combined quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured and imported during a marketing year shall count towards the 100,000 short ton-exemption.


(6) Manufacturers and importers that received an exemption certificate or an automatic exemption from the Board but manufactured or imported 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed on the quantity manufactured or imported within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to § 1222.70.


(7) The Board may develop additional procedures to administer this exemption as appropriate. Such procedures shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.


(b) *Organic.* (1) A manufacturer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:


(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;


(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a manufacturer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is manufactured by a person that also manufactures conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;


(iii) The manufacturer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and


(iv) Any manufacturer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.


(2) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible manufacturer shall submit a request to the Board on an *Organic Exemption Request Form* (Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before the start of the fiscal year, as long as the manufacturer continues to be eligible for the exemption.


(3) A manufacturer request for exemption shall include the following:


(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;


(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;


(iii) Certification that the applicant manufactures organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;


(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;


(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and


(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.


(4) If a manufacturer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the manufacturer within 30 calendar days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.


(5) An importer who imports paper and paper-based packaging that is eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” paper and paper-based packaging on an *Organic Exemption Request Form* (Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal year, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of a manufacturer in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.


(6) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (b)(5) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.


(7) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of a Certificate of Exemption.



---

[N] [79 FR 3706, Jan. 22, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 82032, Dec. 31, 2015]




