# ยง 204.1   Authority, purpose and scope.

(a) *Authority.* This part is issued under the authority of section 19 (12 U.S.C. 461 *et seq.*) and other provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and of section 7 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3105). 


(b) *Purpose.* This part relates to reserve requirements imposed on depository institutions for the purpose of facilitating the implementation of monetary policy by the Federal Reserve System.


(c) *Scope.* (1) The following depository institutions are required to maintain reserves in accordance with this part: 


(i) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)) or any bank that is eligible to apply to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815); 


(ii) Any savings bank or mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(f), (g)); 


(iii) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(7)) or any credit union that is eligible to apply to become an insured credit union under section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781); 


(iv) Any member as defined in section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422(4)); and 


(v) Any insured institution as defined in section 401 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1724(a)) or any institution which is eligible to apply to become an insured institution under section 403 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1726). 


(2) Except as may be otherwise provided by the Board, a foreign bank's branch or agency located in the United States is required to comply with the provisions of this part in the same manner and to the same extent as if the branch or agency were a member bank, if its parent foreign bank (i) has total worldwide consolidated bank assets in excess of $1 billion; or (ii) is controlled by a foreign company or by a group of foreign companies that own or control foreign banks that in the aggregate have total worldwide consolidated bank assets in excess of $1 billion. In addition, any other foreign bank's branch located in the United States that is eligible to apply to become an insured bank under section 5 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1815) is required to maintain reserves in accordance with this part as a nonmember depository institution. 


(3) Except as may be otherwise provided by the Board, an Edge Corporation (12 U.S.C. 611 *et seq.*) or an Agreement Corporation (12 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) is required to comply with the provisions of this part in the same manner and to the same extent as a member bank. 


(4) This part does not apply to any financial institution that (i) is organized solely to do business with other financial institutions; (ii) is owned primarily by the financial institutions with which it does business; and (iii) does not do business with the general public. 


(5) The provisions of this part do not apply to any deposit that is payable only at an office located outside the United States. 



---

[N] [45 FR 56018, Aug. 22, 1980, as amended by Reg. D, 77 FR 21852, Apr. 12, 2012]




