# § 3280.105   Exit facilities; exterior doors.

(a) *Number and location of exterior doors.* Manufactured homes shall have a minimum of two exterior doors located remote from each other. 


(1) Required egress doors shall not be located in rooms where a lockable interior door must be used in order to exit. 


(2) In order for exit doors to be considered *remote* from each other, they must comply with all of the following: 


(i) Both of the required doors must not be in the same room or in a group of rooms which are not defined by fixed walls. 


(ii) *Single wide units.* Doors may not be less than 12 ft. c-c from each other as measured in any straight line direction regardless of the length of path of travel between doors. 


(iii) *Double wide units.* Doors may not be less than 20 ft. c-c from each other as measured in any straight line direction regardless of the length of path of travel between doors. 


(iv) One of the required exit doors must be accessible from the doorway of each bedroom without traveling more than 35 feet. The travel distance to the exit door must be measured on the floor or other walking surface along the center-line of the natural and unobstructed path of travel starting at the center of the bedroom door, curving around any corners or permanent obstructions with a one-foot clearance from, and ending at, the center of the exit door.


(b) *Door design and construction.* (1) Exterior swinging doors shall be constructed in accordance with § 3280.405 the “Standard for Swinging Exterior Passage Doors for Use in Manufactured Homes”. Exterior sliding glass doors shall be constructed in accordance with § 3280.403 the “Standard for Windows and Sliding Glass Doors Used in Manufactured Homes”. 


(2) All exterior swinging doors must provide a minimum 28-inch wide × 74-inch high clear opening. Door seals are permitted to reduce the opening, either vertically or horizontally, a maximum of one inch. All exterior sliding glass doors must provide a minimum 28-inch wide × 72-inch high clear opening.


(3) Each swinging exterior door other than screen or storm doors shall have a key-operated lock that has a deadlocking latch or a key-operated dead bolt with a passage latch. Locks shall not require the use of a key for operation from the inside. 


(4) All exterior doors, including storm and screen doors, opening outward shall be provided with a safety door check. 



---

[N] [40 FR 58752, Dec. 18, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 20679, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 9269, Mar. 7, 1985; 78 FR 73981, Dec. 9, 2013]




