# § 1.861-8T   Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities (temporary).

(a) *In general.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Allocation and apportionment of deductions in general.* If an affiliated group of corporations joins in filing a consolidated return under section 1501, the provisions of this section are to be applied separately to each member in that affiliated group for purposes of determining such member's taxable income, except to the extent that expenses, losses, and other deductions are allocated and apportioned as if all domestic members of an affiliated group were a single corporation under section 864(e) and the regulations thereunder. See § 1.861-9T through § 1.861-11T for rules regarding the affiliated group allocation and apportionment of interest expense, and § 1.861-14T for rules regarding the affiliated group allocation and apportionment of expenses other than interest.


(a)(3)-(b) [Reserved] For further guidance, *see* § 1.861-8(a)(3) through (b).


(c) *Apportionment of deductions*—(1) *Deductions definitely related to a class of gross income.* Where a deduction has been allocated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section to a class of gross income which is included in one statutory grouping and the residual grouping, the deduction must be apportioned between the statutory grouping and the residual grouping. Where a deduction has been allocated to a class of gross income which is included in more than one statutory grouping, such deduction must be apportioned among the statutory groupings and, where necessary, the residual grouping. Thus, in determining the separate limitations on the foreign tax credit imposed by section 904(d)(1) or by section 907, the income within a separate limitation category constitutes a statutory grouping of income and all other income not within that separate limitation category (whether domestic or within a different separate limitation category) constitutes the residual grouping. In this regard, the same method of apportionment must be used in apportioning a deduction to each separate limitation category. Also, see paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section with respect to the apportionment of deductions among the statutory groupings designated in section 904(d)(1). If the class of gross income to which a deduction has been allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping or the residual grouping, there is no need to apportion that deduction. If a deduction is not definitely related to any gross income, it must be apportioned ratably as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. A deduction is apportioned by attributing the deduction to gross income (within the class to which the deduction has been allocated) which is in one or more statutory groupings and to gross income (within the class) which is in the residual grouping. Such attribution must be accomplished in a manner which reflects to a reasonably close extent the factual relationship between the deduction and the grouping of gross income. In apportioning deductions, it may be that for the taxable year there is no gross income in the statutory grouping or that deductions will exceed the amount of gross income in the statutory grouping. See paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to cases in which deductions exceed gross income. In determining the method of apportionment for a specific deduction, examples of bases and factors which should be considered include, but are not limited to—


(i) Comparison of units sold,


(ii) Comparison of the amount of gross sales or receipts,


(iii) Comparison of costs of goods sold,


(iv) Comparison of profit contribution,


(v) Comparison of expenses incurred, assets used, salaries paid, space utilized, and time spent which are attributable to the activities or properties giving rise to the class of gross income, and


(iv) Comparison of the amount of gross income.


(2) *Apportionment based on assets.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(c)(2).


(3) [Reserved]


(d) *Excess of deductions and excluded and eliminated items of income.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Allocation and apportionment to exempt, excluded or eliminated income*—(i) *In general.* In the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, except to the extent otherwise permitted by § 1.861-13T, the following rules shall apply to take account of income that is exempt or excluded, or assets generating such income, with respect to allocation and apportionment of deductions.


(A) *Allocation of deductions.* In allocating deductions that are definitely related to one or more classes of gross income, exempt income (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) shall be taken into account.


(B) *Apportionment of deductions.* In apportioning deductions that are definitely related either to a class of gross income consisting of multiple groupings of income (whether statutory or residual) or to all gross income, exempt income and exempt assets (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) shall not be taken into account.


(ii) *Exempt income and exempt asset defined*—(A) *In general.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(A).


(B) *Certain stock and dividends.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(B).


(C) *Foreign-derived intangible income and inclusions under section 951A(a).* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(C).


(iii) *Income that is not considered tax exempt.* The following items are not considered to be exempt, eliminated, or excluded income and, thus, may have expenses, losses, or other deductions allocated and apportioned to them:


(A) In the case of a foreign taxpayer (including a foreign sales corporation (FSC)) computing its effectively connected income, gross income (whether domestic or foreign source) which is not effectively connected to the conduct of a United States trade or business;


(B) In computing the combined taxable income of a DISC or FSC and its related supplier, the gross income of a DISC or a FSC; and


(C) For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(d)(2)(iii)(C) through (E).


(D)-(E) [Reserved]


(iv) *Value of stock attributable to previously taxed earnings and profits.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(d)(2)(iv).


(e) *Allocation and apportionment of certain deductions.* (1) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(e)(1). 


(2) *Interest.* The rules concerning the allocation and apportionment of interest expense and certain interest equivalents are set forth in §§ 1.861-9T through § 1.861-13T.


(3) *Research and experimental expenditures.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(e)(3) through (15).


(4)-(15) [Reserved]


(f) *Miscellaneous matters.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-8(f) through (g).


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Effective/applicability date.* (1) Paragraphs (f)(1)(vi)(E), (f)(1)(vi)(F), and (f)(1)(vi)(G) of this section apply to taxable years ending after April 9, 2008.


(2) Paragraph (e)(4), the last sentence of paragraph (f)(4)(i), and paragraph (g), *Examples 17*, *18*, and *30* of this section apply to taxable years beginning after July 31, 2009.


(3) Also, *see* paragraph (e)(12)(iv) of this section and 1.861-14(e)(6) for rules concerning the allocation and apportionment of deductions for charitable contributions.



---

[N] [T.D. 8228, 53 FR 35474, Sept. 14, 1988]


