# § 1900.156   Special handling—processing.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Eligibility determination.* The designated processing official reviews the application and develops additional data as necessary. Upon determination of whether the assistance will be provided, the designated processing official notifies the applicant of the decision in writing under program regulations, subpart A of part 1910 of this chapter, and subpart B of part 1900. If the determination is favorable, unless otherwise designated, the complete application is returned to the original processing official for docket preparation. If the determination is unfavorable, the designated processing official as decisionmaker participates in the appeal process to its conclusion.


(c)-(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Closing agent.* Unless there is a clear or apparent conflict of interest, closing will be at a location and by a closing agent chosen by the recipient.


(g) *Supervised bank account.* Unless there is a clear or apparent conflict of interest, any supervised bank account (or construction account) is established at a financial institution chosen by the recipient under subpart A of part 1902 of this chapter. Countersignature authority is delegated only to a nonrelated or nonassociated Rural Development official.


(h) *Construction inspection.* Construction inspections are delegated to a nonrelated or nonassociated employee authorized to conduct inspections, whose duty station is nearest the construction site. The designated processing/servicing official notifies the builder (or architect/engineer) in writing of how and from whom to request inspections.



---

[N] [58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]




