# § 19.132   Change in proprietorship.

(a) *General.* If there is a change in proprietorship at a distilled spirits plant that holds an operating permit, the following requirements apply to the outgoing proprietor and to the incoming (successor) proprietor.


(1) *Outgoing proprietor.* An outgoing proprietor must comply with the requirements of § 19.147. An outgoing proprietor may transfer spirits to its successor an accordance with § 19.141.


(2) *Successor proprietor.* A successor to the proprietorship of a plant that holds an operating permit:


(i) Must file form TTB F 5110.25 Application for Operating Permit Under 26 U.S.C. 5171(d) and obtain an operating permit;


(ii) Must file the required bonds, subject to the exemption provided in § 19.151(d); and


(iii) May adopt the approved formulas of its predecessor in accordance with §§ 5.194 and 20.63 of this chapter.


(b) *Fiduciary.* If the successor to the proprietorship of a plant is an administrator, executor, receiver, trustee, assignee, or other fiduciary, the successor must comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The following rules also apply in this case:


(1) The fiduciary may furnish a consent of surety to extend the terms of the predecessor's bond instead of filing a new bond;


(2) On TTB F 5110.25, Application for Operating Permit Under 26 U.S.C. 5171(d), the fiduciary may incorporate by reference any information contained in the predecessor's application that is still current;


(3) The successor must furnish a certified copy of the order of the court or other pertinent document showing the successor's qualification as fiduciary; and


(4) The effective date of the qualifying documents that the fiduciary files will be the date of the court order, the date specified in the order whereby the fiduciary assumes control, or if there is no court order, the date that the fiduciary assumed control.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1120, Jan. 4, 2017; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87939, Nov. 6, 2024]




