# ยง 121.3   The OPTN.

(a) *Organization of the OPTN.* (1) The OPTN shall establish a Board of Directors of whatever size the OPTN determines appropriate. The Board of Directors shall include:


(i) Approximately 50 percent transplant surgeons or transplant physicians;


(ii) At least 25 percent transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors and family members. These members should represent the diversity of the population of transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors and family members served by the OPTN including, to the extent practicable, the minority and gender diversity of this population. These members shall not be employees of, or have a similar relationship with OPOs, transplant centers, voluntary health organizations, transplant coordinators, histocompatibility experts, or other non-physician transplant professionals; however, the Board may waive this requirement for not more than 50 percent of these members; and


(iii) Representatives of OPOs, transplant hospitals, voluntary health associations, transplant coordinators, histocompatibility experts, non-physician transplant professionals, and the general public.


(2) The Board of Directors shall elect an Executive Committee from the membership of the Board. The Executive Committee shall include at least one general public member, one OPO representative, approximately 50 percent transplant surgeons and transplant physicians, and at least 25 percent transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors, and family members.


(3) The Board of Directors shall appoint an Executive Director of the OPTN. The Executive Director may be reappointed upon the Board's determination that the responsibilities of this position have been accomplished successfully.


(4) The Board of Directors shall establish such other committees as are necessary to perform the duties of the OPTN. Committees established by the Board of Directors shall include:


(i) Representation by transplant coordinators, organ procurement organizations, and transplant hospitals, and at least one transplant candidate, transplant recipient, organ donor or family member; and


(ii) To the extent practicable, minority and gender representation reflecting the diversity of the population of transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors and family members served by the OPTN.


(b) *Membership of the OPTN.* (1) The OPTN shall admit and retain as members the following:


(i) All organ procurement organizations;


(ii) Transplant hospitals participating in the Medicare or Medicaid programs; and


(iii) Other organizations, institutions, and individuals that have an interest in the fields of organ donation or transplantation.


(2) To apply for membership in the OPTN:


(i) An OPO shall provide to the OPTN the name and address of the OPO, and the latest year of designation under section 1138(b) of the Social Security Act;


(ii) A transplant hospital shall provide to the OPTN the name and address of the hospital, a list of its transplant programs by type of organ; and


(iii) Any other organization, institution, or individual eligible under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section shall demonstrate to the OPTN an interest in the fields of organ donation or transplantation.


(3) The OPTN shall accept or reject as members entities or individuals described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section within 90 days.


(4) Applicants rejected for membership in the OPTN may appeal to the Secretary. Appeals shall be submitted in writing within 30 days of rejection of the application. The Secretary may:


(i) Deny the appeal; or


(ii) Direct the OPTN to take action consistent with the Secretary's response to the appeal.


(c) *Corporate status of the OPTN.* (1) The OPTN shall be a private, not-for-profit entity.


(2) The requirements of this section do not apply to any parent, sponsoring, or affiliated organization of the OPTN, or to any activities of the contracting organization that are not integral to the operation of the OPTN. Such an organization is free to establish its own corporate procedures.


(3) No OPTN member is required to become a member of any organization that is a parent, sponsor, contractor, or affiliated organization of the OPTN, to comply with the by-laws of any such organization, or to assume any corporate duties or obligations of any such organization.


(d) *Effective date.* The organization designated by the Secretary as the OPTN shall have until June 30, 2000, or six months from its initial designation as the OPTN, whichever is later, to meet the requirements of this section, except that the Secretary may extend such period for good cause.



---

[N] [63 FR 16332, Apr. 2, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 35847, July 1, 1998; 64 FR 56658, Oct. 20, 1999]




