# ยง 1312.2   Responsibilities.

The effectiveness of the classification and declassification program in OMB depends entirely on the amount of attention paid to it by supervisors and their staffs in those offices and divisions that possess or produce classified material. Officials who originate classified information are responsible for proper assignment of a classification to that material and for the decision as to its declassification. Officials who produce documents containing classified information must determine the source of the classification for that information and must ensure that the proper identity of that source is shown on the document. Custodians of classified material are responsible for its safekeeping and for ensuring that such material is adequately marked as to current classification. Custodians are also responsible for the control of and accounting for all classified material within their area of jurisdiction as prescribed in OMB Manual Section 1030. 


(a) *EOP Security Officer.* In cooperation with the Associate Director (or Assistant Director) for Administration, the EOP Security Officer supervises the administration of this section and develops programs to assist in the compliance with the Order. Specifically, he: 


(1) Promotes the correct understanding of this section by all employees by providing annual security refresher briefings and ensures that new employees attend initial briefings about overall security procedures and policies.


(2) Issues and keeps current such classification guides and guidelines for review for declassification as are required by the Order.


(3) Conducts periodic reviews of classified documents produced and provides assistance and guidance where necessary.


(4) Maintains and publishes a current listing of all officials who have been designated in writing to have Top Secret, Secret, and Confidential original classification authority.


(b) *Heads of divisions or offices.* The head of each division or major organizational unit is responsible for the administration of this section within his or her area. Appropriate internal guidance should be issued to cover special or unusual conditions within an office.




