# § 242.3   Applicability and scope.

(a) The regulations in this part implement the provisions of Title VIII of ANILCA relevant to the taking of fish and wildlife on public land in the State of Alaska. The regulations in this part do not permit subsistence uses in Glacier Bay National Park, Kenai Fjords National Park, Katmai National Park, and that portion of Denali National Park established as Mt. McKinley National Park prior to passage of ANILCA, where subsistence taking and uses are prohibited. The regulations in this part do not supersede agency-specific regulations.


(b) The regulations contained in this part apply on all public lands, including all inland waters, both navigable and non-navigable, within and adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the following areas, and on the marine waters as identified in the following areas:


(1) Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge, including the:


(i) Karluk Subunit: All of the submerged land and water of the Pacific Ocean (Sheliokof Strait) extending 3,000 feet from the shoreline between a point on the spit at the meander corner common to Sections 35 and 36 of Township 30 South, Range 33 West, and a point approximately 1
1/4 miles east of Rocky Point within Section 14 of Township 29 South, Range 31, West, Seward Meridian as described in Public Land Order 128, dated June 19, 1943;


(ii) Womens Bay Subunit: Womens Bay, Gibson Cove, portions of St. Paul Harbor and Chiniak Bay: All of the submerged land and water as described in Public Land Order 1182, dated July 7, 1955 (U.S. Survey 21539);


(iii) Afognak Island Subunit: All submerged lands and waters of the Pacific Ocean lying within 3 miles of the shoreline as described in Proclamation No. 39, dated December 24, 1892;


(iv) Simeonof Subunit: All of the submerged land and water of Simeonof Island together with the adjacent waters of the Pacific Ocean extending 1 mile from the shoreline as described in Public Land Order 1749, dated October 30, 1958; and


(v) Semidi Subunit: All of the submerged land and water of the Semidi Islands together with the adjacent waters of the Pacific Ocean lying between parallels 55°57′57″00-56°15′57″00 North Latitude and 156°30′00″-157°00′00″ West Longitude as described in Executive Order 5858, dated June 17, 1932;


(2) Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, including those waters shoreward of the line of extreme low water starting in the vicinity of Monument 1 at the intersection of the International Boundary line between the State of Alaska and the Yukon Territory; Canada, and extending westerly, along the line of extreme low water across the entrances of lagoons such that all offshore bars, reefs and islands, and lagoons that separate them from the mainland to Brownlow Point, approximately 70°10′ North Latitude and 145°51′ West Longitude;


(3) National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, including those waters shoreward of a line beginning at the western bank of the Colville River following the highest highwater mark westerly, extending across the entrances of small lagoons, including Pearl Bay, Wainwright Inlet, the Kuk River, Kugrau Bay and River, and other small bays and river estuaries, and following the ocean side of barrier islands and sandspits within three miles of shore and the ocean side of the Plover Islands, to the northwestern extremity of Icy Cape, at approximately 70°21′ North Latitute and 161°46′ West Longitude; and


(4) Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge, including Nunivak Island: the submerged land and water of Nunivak Island together with the adjacent waters of the Bering Sea extending, for Federal Subsistence Management purposes, 3 miles from the shoreline of Nunivak Island as described in Executive Order No. 5059, dated April 15, 1929.


(5) Southeastern Alaska, including the:


(i) Makhnati Island Area: Land and waters beginning at the southern point of Fruit Island, 57°02′35″ north latitude, 135°21′07″ west longitude as shown on United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Chart No. 8244, May 21, 1941; from the point of beginning, by metes and bounds; S 58° W, 2,500 feet, to the southern point of Nepovorotni Rocks; S 83° W, 5,600 feet, on a line passing through the southern point of a small island lying about 150 feet south of Makhnati Island; N 6° W, 4,200 feet, on a line passing through the western point of a small island lying about 150 feet west of Makhnati Island, to the northwestern point of Signal Island; N 24° E, 3,000 feet, to a point, 57°03′15″ north latitude, 134°23′07″ west longitude; East, 2,900 feet, to a point in course No. 45 in meanders of U.S. Survey No. 1496, on west side of Japonski Island; southeasterly, with the meanders of Japonski Island, U.S. Survey No. 1,496 to angle point No. 35, on the southwestern point of Japonski Island; S 60° E, 3,300 feet, along the boundary line of Naval reservation described in Executive Order No. 8216, July 25, 1939, to the point of beginning, and that part of Sitka Bay lying south of Japonski Island and west of the main channel, but not including Aleutski Island as revoked in Public Land Order 925, October 27, 1953, described by metes and bounds as follows: Beginning at the southeast point of Japonski Island at angle point No. 7 of the meanders of U.S. Survey No. 1496; thence east approximately 12.00 chains to the center of the main channel; thence S 45° E. along the main channel approximately 20.00 chains; thence S 45° W, approximately 9.00 chains to the southeastern point of Aleutski Island; thence S 79° W, approximately 40.00 chains to the southern point of Fruit Island; thence N 60° W, approximately 50.00 chains to the southwestern point of Japonski Island at angle point No. 35 of U.S. Survey No. 1496; thence easterly with the meanders of Japonski Island to the point of beginning including Charcoal, Harbor, Alice, Love, and Fruit islands and a number of smaller unnamed islands.


(ii) Tongass National Forest:


(c) The regulations contained in this part apply on all public lands, excluding marine waters, but including all inland waters, both navigable and non-navigable, within and adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the following areas:


(1) Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge;


(2) Aniakchak National Monument and Preserve;


(3) Becharof National Wildlife Refuge;


(4) Bering Land Bridge National Preserve;


(5) Cape Krusenstern National Monument;


(6) Chugach National Forest;


(7) Denali National Preserve and the 1980 additions to Denali National Park;


(8) Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve;


(9) Glacier Bay National Preserve;


(10) Innoko National Wildlife Refuge;


(11) Izembek National Wildlife Refuge;


(12) Kanuti National Wildlife Refuge;


(13) Katmai National Preserve;


(14) Kenai National Wildlife Refuge;


(15) Kobuk Valley National Park;


(16) Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge;


(17) Koyukuk National Wildlife Refuge;


(18) Lake Clark National Park and Preserve;


(19) Noatak National Preserve;


(20) Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge;


(21) Selawik National Wildlife Refuge;


(22) Steese National Conservation Area;


(23) Tetlin National Wildlife Refuge;


(24) Togiak National Wildlife Refuge;


(25) Tongass National Forest, including Admiralty Island National Monument and Misty Fjords National Monument;


(26) White Mountain National Recreation Area;


(27) Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve;


(28) Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve;


(29) Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge;


(30) All components of the Wild and Scenic River System located outside the boundaries of National Parks, National Preserves, or National Wildlife Refuges, including segments of the Alagnak River, Beaver Creek, Birch Creek, Delta River, Fortymile River, Gulkana River, and Unalakleet River.


(d) The regulations contained in this part apply on all other public lands, other than to the military, U.S. Coast Guard, and Federal Aviation Administration lands that are closed to access by the general public, including all non-navigable waters located on these lands.


(e) The public lands described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section remain subject to change through rulemaking pending a Department of the Interior review of title and jurisdictional issues regarding certain submerged lands beneath navigable waters in Alaska.



---

[N] [70 FR 76407, Dec. 27, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 49999, Aug. 24, 2006; 74 FR 34696, July 17, 2009; 83 FR 23817, May 23, 2018; 89 FR 22954, Apr. 3, 2024]




