# § 3560.453   Workout agreements.

(a) *General.* (1) Prevention or resolution of compliance violations or default cures are a borrower's responsibility.


(2) A borrower may develop and submit to the Agency for approval a workout agreement that proposes actions to be taken over a period of time to prevent or correct a compliance violation or to cure a monetary or non-monetary default.


(3) A borrower developed workout agreement may propose, but is not limited to, the following actions:


(i) A combination of one or more of the special servicing actions outlined in §§ 3560.454 and 3560.455;


(ii) A change in operations and management at a housing project; or


(iii) A commitment of additional financial resources to the housing project with the amount and source of the additional resources to be committed to the housing project specifically identified.


(b) *Workout agreement approval.* (1) The Agency is under no obligation to approve a workout agreement as submitted by a borrower or to act with forbearance when a housing project is in monetary or non-monetary default.


(2) Borrower developed workout agreements may not be implemented until the borrower receives written approval from the Agency.


(3) The Agency will only approve a workout agreement if the Agency determines that the actions proposed are likely to prevent or correct compliance violations or cure a default and approval is in the best interest of the Federal Government and tenants.


(4) The Agency will only approve a workout agreement if the proposed actions are consistent with the borrower's management plan. If proposed actions are not consistent with the borrower's management plan, applicable revisions to the borrower's management plan must be made before approval of the workout agreement is given.


(c) *Workout agreement required content.* (1) Workout agreements submitted to the Agency for approval must be in writing and signed by the borrower. Workout agreements must describe proposed actions in sufficient detail to demonstrate the likelihood of the actions to prevent or correct compliance violations or cure defaults.


(2) At a minimum, workout agreements must include the following.


(i) The name and address of the housing project, project number, borrower's tax identification number, and other information necessary to identify the housing project.


(ii) A description of the potential or actual compliance violation or default situation, including an explanation of related causes, such as cash flow concerns, budget revisions, deferred maintenance, vacancies, or violations of statutes.


(iii) A definition and description of the housing project's market area, including information on housing availability, rents, and vacancy rates in the market area.


(iv) A description of the proposed actions to prevent or correct compliance violations or to cure defaults along with a date specific schedule indicating when interim and final actions will be taken to correct the compliance violation or cure the default.


(v) A description of financial and other resources necessary to prevent or correct the compliance violation or cure the default including an identification of the sources for such resources.


(d) *Workout agreement budgets.* Budget revisions submitted as a part of a workout agreement for a housing project experiencing cash flow problems must prioritize cash disbursements in the following order:


(1) Prior lienholder, if any;


(2) Critical operating and maintenance expenses, including taxes and insurance;


(3) Agency debt payments;


(4) Reserve account requirements; and


(5) Other authorized expenditures.


(e) *Workout agreement terms and cancellation.* (1) Workout agreements shall be in effect for no longer than a 2-year time period, beginning on the date of Agency approval. If an approved workout agreement calls for actions that extend beyond a 2-year period, borrowers must submit an updated and, if necessary, revised workout agreement to the Agency for approval. The updated workout agreement must be submitted to the Agency, 30 days prior to the expiration of the workout agreement in effect.


(2) The Agency may cancel a workout agreement at any time if the borrower fails to comply with the terms of the agreement. The Agency will provide notice to the borrower upon cancellation of the workout agreement. 




