# ยง 5.202   Short form registration statement.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, each partner, officer, director, associate, employee, and agent of a registrant is required to file a registration statement under the Act. Unless the Assistant Attorney General specifically directs otherwise, this obligation may be satisfied by the filing of a short form registration statement. 


(b) A partner, officer, director, associate, employee, or agent of a registrant who does not engage directly in registrable activity in furtherance of the interests of the foreign principal is not required to file a short form registration statement. 


(c) An employee or agent of a registrant whose services in furtherance of the interests of the foreign principal are rendered in a clerical, secretarial, or in a related or similar capacity, is not required to file a short form registration statement. 


(d) Whenever the agent of a registrant is a partnership, association, corporation, or other combination of individuals, and such agent is not within the exemption of paragraph (b) of this section, only those partners, officers, directors, associates, and employees who engage directly in activity in furtherance of the interests of the registrant's foreign principal are required to file a short form registration statement. 


(e) The short form registration statement shall be filed on Form OBD-66. Any change affecting the information furnished with respect to the nature of the services rendered by the person filing the statement, or the compensation he receives, shall require the filing of a new short form registration statement within 10 days after the occurrence of such change. There is no requirement to file exhibits or supplemental statements to a short form registration statement. 



---

[N] [Order No. 376-67, 32 FR 6362, Apr. 22, 1967, as amended by Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52355, Oct. 27, 1981; Order No. 2674-2003, 68 FR 33630, June 5, 2003]




