# § 218.03   Definitions.

(a) The following terms used in this part are defined in the government-wide regulations (45 CFR 90.4, 44 FR 33768): 


Act 


Action 


Age 


Age distinction 


Age-related term 


Federal financial assistance 


Recipient (including subrecipients) 


United States 


(b) As used in this part, 


(1) *Agency* means the Department of State, the U.S. International Communication Agency, and the Agency for International Development. 


(2) *Secretary* means the Secretary of State, the Director of the U.S. International Communication Agency, and the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, or the designee of such officer. 


(3) *Subrecipient* means any of the entities in the definition of “recipient” to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations. 


(4) *Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance: 


(i)(A) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or 


(B) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government; 


(ii)(A) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or 


(B) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system; 


(iii)(A) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship— 


(*1*) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or 


(*2*) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or 


(B) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or 


(iv) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. 



---

[N] [45 FR 62980, Sept. 23, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51363, Aug. 26, 2003]




