# ยง 91.1   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms will have the meanings set forth in this section:


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A, and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter, and to perform functions required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal.* Any member of the animal kingdom (except a human).


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*APHIS representative.* An individual who is authorized by APHIS to perform the function involved.


*Date of export.* The date animals intended for export are loaded onto an ocean vessel or aircraft or, if moved by land to Canada or Mexico, the date the animals cross the border.


*Export health certificate.* An official document issued in the United States that certifies that animals or other commodities listed on the certificate meet the export requirements of this part and the importing country.


*Export inspection facility.* A facility that is affiliated with a port of embarkation and that has been approved by the Administrator as the location where APHIS will conduct health inspections of livestock before they are loaded onto ocean vessels or aircraft for export from the United States.


*Export isolation facility.* A facility where animals intended for export are isolated from other animals for a period of time immediately before being moved for export.


*Horses.* Horses, mules, and asses.


*Inspector.* An individual authorized by APHIS to inspect animals and/or animal products intended for export from the United States.


*Livestock.* Horses, cattle (including American bison), captive cervids, sheep, swine, and goats, regardless of intended use.


*Premises of export.* The premises where the animals intended for export are isolated as required by the importing country prior to export or, if the importing country does not require pre-export isolation, the farm or other premises where the animals are assembled for pre-export inspection and/or testing, or the germplasm is collected or stored, before being moved to a port of embarkation or land border port.


*Program diseases.* Diseases for which there are cooperative State-Federal programs and domestic regulations in subchapter C of this chapter.


*Program Handbook.* A document that contains guidance and other information related to the regulations in this part. The Program Handbook is available on APHIS' import-export Web site (*http://www.aphis.usda.gov/import_export/index.shtml*).


*State of origin.* The State in which the premises of export is located.




