# § 220.3   Categories of permits.

This § 220.3 provides for the issuance of general, special, emergency, and research permits for ocean dumping under section 102 of the Act. 


(a) *General permits.* General permits may be issued for the dumping of certain materials which will have a minimal adverse environmental impact and are generally disposed of in small quantities, or for specific classes of materials that must be disposed of in emergency situations. General permits may be issued on application of an interested person in accordance with the procedures of part 221 or may be issued without such application whenever the Administrator determines that issuance of a general permit is necessary or appropriate. 


(b) *Special permits.* Special permits may be issued for the dumping of materials which satisfy the Criteria and shall specify an expiration date no later than three years from the date of issue. 


(c) *Emergency permits.* For any of the materials listed in § 227.6, except as trace contaminants, after consultation with the Department of State with respect to the need to consult with parties to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter that are likely to be affected by the dumping, emergency permits may be issued to dump such materials where there is demonstrated to exist an emergency requiring the dumping of such materials, which poses an unacceptable risk relating to human health and admits of no other feasible solution. As used herein, “emergency” refers to situations requiring action with a marked degree of urgency, but is not limited in its application to circumstances requiring immediate action. Emergency permits may be issued for other materials, except those prohibited by § 227.5, without consultation with the Department of State when the Administrator determines that there exists an emergency requiring the dumping of such materials which poses an unacceptable risk to human health and admits of no other feasible solution. 


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Research permits.* Research permits may be issued for the dumping of any materials, other than materials specified in § 227.5 or for any of the materials listed in § 227.6 except as trace contaminants, unless subject to the exclusion of § 227.6(g), into the ocean as part of a research project when it is determined that the scientific merit of the proposed project outweighs the potential environmental or other damage that may result from the dumping. Research permits shall specify an expiration date no later than 18 months from the date of issue. 


(f) *Permits for incineration at sea.* Permits for incineration of wastes at sea will be issued only as research permits until specific criteria to regulate this type of disposal are promulgated, except in those cases where studies on the waste, the incineration method and vessel, and the site have been conducted and the site has been designated for incineration at sea in accordance with the procedures of § 228.4(b) of this chapter. In all other respects the requirements of parts 220 through 228 apply.



---

[N] [42 FR 2468, Jan. 11, 1977; 43 FR 1071, Jan. 6, 1978; 73 FR 74986, Dec. 10, 2008] 




