# § 29.103   Definitions.

(a) In this part—


*Act* means Subtitle A, Subchapter B of Chapter 4 of Subtitle C, and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, 756-759, as amended.


*Benefits Administrator* means:


(1) For the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan under section 11041(a) of the Act:


(i) During the interim benefits administration period, the District of Columbia government; or


(ii) After the end of the interim benefits administration period:


(A) The Trustee selected by the Department under sections 11035(a) or 11085(a) of the Act;


(B) The Department, if a determination is made under sections 11035(d) or 11085(d) of the Act that, in the interest of economy and efficiency, the function of the Trustee shall be performed by the Department rather than the Trustee; or


(C) Any other agent of the Department designated to make initial benefit determinations and/or to recover or recoup or waive recovery or recoupment of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments, or to recover or recoup debts owed to the Federal Government by annuitants; or


(2) For the Judges Plan under section 11252(b) of the Act:


(i) During the interim benefits administration period, the District of Columbia government; or


(ii) After the end of the interim benefits administration period for the Judges Plan:


(A) The Trustee selected by the Department under section 11251(a) of the Act;


(B) The Department, if a determination is made under section 11251(a) of the Act that, in the interest of economy and efficiency, the function of the Trustee shall be performed by the Department rather than the Trustee; or


(C) Any other agent of the Department designated to make initial benefit determinations and/or to recover or recoup or waive recovery or recoupment of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments, or to recover or recoup debts owed to the Federal Government by annuitants.


*District government* means the government of the District of Columbia. 


*Department* means the United States Department of the Treasury. 


*Federal Benefit Payment* means a payment for which the Department is responsible under the Act, to which an individual is entitled under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan, in such amount and under such terms and conditions as may apply under such plans, including payments made under these plans before, on, or after the October 1, 1997, effective date of the Act. Service after June 30, 1997, shall not be credited for purposes of determining the amount of any Federal Benefit Payment under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan.


*Freeze date* means June 30, 1997. 


*Judges Plan* means the retirement program (under subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 11 of the D.C. Code) for judges of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals or Superior Court or with judicial service with the former Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia, District of Columbia Tax Court, police court, municipal court, Municipal Court of Appeals, or District of Columbia Court of General Sessions. 


*OPM* means the United States Office of Personnel Management. 


*Police and Firefighters Plan* means any of the retirement programs (under chapter 6 of title 4 of the D.C. Code) for members of the Metropolitan Police Force and Fire Department in effect on June 29, 1997. 


*Reconsideration* means the process of reexamining an individual's entitlement to benefits or liability for a debt to determine whether—


(1) The law and regulations were properly applied; and/or 


(2) The mathematical computation of the benefit or liability is correct. 


*Retirement Funds* means the District of Columbia Teachers, Police Officers, and Firefighters Federal Pension Fund established under section 11081 of the Act, the District of Columbia Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund established under section 11252 of the Act, and their predecessor funds.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury or his or her designee. 


*Teachers Plan* means any of the retirement programs for teachers (under chapter 12 of title 31 of the D.C. Code) in effect on June 29, 1997. 


(b) In this subpart— 


*Legal process* means— 


(1) Any document that qualifies as legal process as defined in § 581.103 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; or 


(2) Any court order that Federal or District of Columbia law permits to cause all or any portion of a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan to be made to a former spouse under chapter 30 of title 1 of the D.C. Code (1997). 


*Representative payee* means a fiduciary to whom a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan is made for the benefit of a plan participant or a survivor. 



---

[N] [65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001; 70 FR 60004, Oct. 14, 2005] 




