# ยง 61.9   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, the following terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this subpart.


*Alleged abuser.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Case.* One or more reported incidents of suspected child abuse or domestic abuse pertaining to the same victim.


*Clinical case staff meeting (CCSM).* An installation FAP meeting of clinical service providers to assist the coordinated delivery of supportive services and clinical treatment in child abuse and domestic abuse cases, as appropriate. They provide: clinical consultation directed to ongoing safety planning for the victim; the planning and delivery of supportive services, and clinical treatment, as appropriate, for the victim; the planning and delivery of rehabilitative treatment for the alleged abuser; and case management, including risk assessment and ongoing safety monitoring.


*Child.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Child abuse.* The physical or sexual abuse, emotional abuse, or neglect of a child by a parent, guardian, foster parent, or by a caregiver, whether the caregiver is intrafamilial or extrafamilial, under circumstances indicating the child's welfare is harmed or threatened. Such acts by a sibling, other family member, or other person shall be deemed to be child abuse only when the individual is providing care under express or implied agreement with the parent, guardian, or foster parent.


*Clinical case management.* The FAP process of providing or coordinating the provision of clinical services, as appropriate, to the victim, alleged abuser, and family member in each FAP child abuse and domestic abuse incident from entry into until exit from the FAP system. It includes identifying risk factors; safety planning; conducting and monitoring clinical case assessments; presentation to the Incident Determination Committee (IDC); developing and implementing treatment plans and services; completion and maintenance of forms, reports, and records; communication and coordination with relevant agencies and professionals on the case; case review and advocacy; case counseling with the individual victim, alleged abuser, and family member, as appropriate; other direct services to the victim, alleged abuser, and family members, as appropriate; and case transfer or closing.


*Clinical intervention.* A continuous risk management process that includes identifying risk factors, safety planning, initial clinical assessment, formulation of a clinical treatment plan, clinical treatment based on assessing readiness for and motivating behavioral change and life skills development, periodic assessment of behavior in the treatment setting, and monitoring behavior and periodic assessment of outside-of-treatment settings.


*Domestic abuse.* Domestic violence or a pattern of behavior resulting in emotional/psychological abuse, economic control, and/or interference with personal liberty that is directed toward a person who is:


(1) A current or former spouse.


(2) A person with whom the abuser shares a child in common; or


(3) A current or former intimate partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common domicile.


*Domestic violence.* An offense under the United States Code, the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or State law involving the use, attempted use, or threatened use of force or violence against a person, or a violation of a lawful order issued for the protection of a person who is:


(1) A current or former spouse.


(2) A person with whom the abuser shares a child in common; or


(3) A current or former intimate partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common domicile.


*Family Advocacy Committee (FAC).* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Family Advocacy Command Assistance Team (FACAT).* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Family Advocacy Program (FAP).* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*High risk for violence.* A level of risk describing families or individuals experiencing severe abuse or the potential for severe abuse, or offenders engaging in high risk behaviors such as making threats to cause grievous bodily harm, preventing victim access to communication devices, stalking, etc. Such cases require coordinated community safety planning that actively involves installation law enforcement, command, legal, and FAP.


*Home visitation.* A strategy for delivering services to parents in their homes to improve child and family functioning.


*Home visitor.* A person who provides FAP services to promote child and family functioning to parents in their homes.


*IDC.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Installation.* Any more or less permanent post, camp, station, base for the support or carrying on of military activities.


*Installation Family Advocacy Program Manager (FAPM).* The individual at the installation level designated by the installation commander in accordance with Service FAP headquarters implementing guidance to manage the FAP, supervise FAP staff, and coordinate all FAP activities. If the Service FAP headquarters implementing guidance assigns the responsibilities of the local FAPM between two individuals, the FAPM is the individual who has been assigned the responsibility for implementing the specific procedure.


*NPSP.* A standardized secondary prevention program under the FAP that delivers intensive, voluntary, strengths based home visitation services designed specifically for expectant parents and parents of children from birth to 3 years of age to reduce the risk of child abuse and neglect.


*Non-DoD eligible extrafamilial caregiver.* A caregiver who is not sponsored or sanctioned by the DoD. It includes nannies, temporary babysitters certified by the Red Cross, and temporary babysitters in the home, and other non-DoD eligible family members who provide care for or supervision of children.


*Non-medical counseling.* Short term, non-therapeutic counseling that is not appropriate for individuals needing clinical therapy. Non-medical counseling is supportive in nature and addresses general conditions of living, life skills, improving relationships at home and at work, stress management, adjustment issues (such as those related to returning from a deployment), marital problems, parenting, and grief and loss. This definition is not intended to limit the authority of the Military Departments to grant privileges to clinical providers modifying this scope of care consistent with current Military Department policy.


*Out-of-home care.* The responsibility of care for and/or supervision of a child in a setting outside the child's home by an individual placed in a caretaker role sanctioned by a Military Service or Defense Agency or authorized by the Service or Defense Agency as a provider of care, such as care in a child development center, school, recreation program, or family child care. part.


*Primary managing authority (PMA).* The installation FAP that has primary authority and responsibility for the management and incident status determination of reports of child abuse and unrestricted reports of domestic abuse.


*Restricted reporting.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Risk management.* The process of identifying risk factors associated with increased risk for child abuse or domestic abuse, and controlling those factors that can be controlled through collaborative partnerships with key military personnel and civilian agencies, including the active duty member's commander, law enforcement personnel, child protective services, and victim advocates. It includes the development and implementation of an intervention plan when significant risk of lethality or serious injury is present to reduce the likelihood of future incidents and to increase the victim's safety, continuous assessment of risk factors associated with the abuse, and prompt updating of the victim's safety plan, as needed.


*Safety planning.* A process whereby a victim advocate, working with a domestic abuse victim, creates a plan, tailored to that victim's needs, concerns, and situation, that will help increase the victim's safety and help the victim to prepare for, and potentially avoid, future violence.


*Service FAP headquarters.* The office designated by the Secretary of the Military Department to develop and issue Service FAP implementing guidance in accordance with DoD policy, manage the Service-level FAP, and provide oversight for Service FAP functions.


*Unrestricted reporting.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Victim.* A child or current or former spouse or intimate partner who is the subject of an alleged incident of child maltreatment or domestic abuse because he/she was allegedly maltreated by the alleged abuser.


*Victim advocate.* An employee of the Department of Defense, a civilian working under contract for the Department of Defense, or a civilian providing services by means of a formal memorandum of understanding between a military installation and a local victim advocacy service agency, whose role is to provide safety planning services and comprehensive assistance and liaison to and for victims of domestic abuse, and to educate personnel on the installation regarding the most effective responses to domestic abuse on behalf of victims and at-risk family members. The advocate may also be a volunteer military member, a volunteer civilian employee of the Military Department, or staff assigned as collateral duty.




