# § 1006.30   Reports of receipts and utilization.

Each handler shall report monthly so that the market administrator's office receives the report on or before the 7th day after the end of the month, in the detail and on prescribed forms, as follows:


(a) With respect to each of its pool plants, the quantities of skim milk and butterfat contained in or represented by:


(1) Receipts of producer milk, including producer milk diverted by the reporting handler, from sources other than handlers described in § 1000.9(c);


(2) Receipts of milk from handlers described in § 1000.9(c);


(3) Receipts of fluid milk products and bulk fluid cream products from other pool plants;


(4) Receipts of other source milk;




(5) Receipts of producer milk described in § 1006.84(e), including the identity of the individual producers whose milk is eligible for the distributing plant delivery credit pursuant to that paragraph and the date that such milk was received;


(6) For handlers submitting distributing plant delivery credit requests, transfers of bulk unconcentrated milk to nonpool plants, including the dates that such milk was transferred.






(7) Inventories at the beginning and end of the month of fluid milk products and bulk fluid cream products; and


(8) The utilization or disposition of all milk and milk products required to be reported pursuant to this paragraph.


(b) Each handler operating a partially regulated distributing plant shall report with respect to such plant in the same manner as prescribed for reports required by paragraph (a) of this section. Receipts of milk that would have been producer milk if the plant had been fully regulated shall be reported in lieu of producer milk. The report shall show also the quantity of any reconstituted skim milk in route disposition in the marketing area.


(c) Each handler described in § 1000.9(c) shall report:


(1) The quantities of all skim milk and butterfat contained in receipts of milk from producers; and


(2) The utilization or disposition of all such receipts.


(3) With respect to milk for which a cooperative association is requesting a distributing plant delivery credit pursuant to § 1006.84, all of the information required in paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) of this section.










(d) Each handler not specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall report with respect to its receipts and utilization of milk and milk products in such manner as the market administrator may prescribe.







---

[N] [64 FR 47966, Sept. 1, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 6406, Feb. 1, 2024]










