# § 24.140   Notice.

(a) *General.* Where all or part of the operations at a wine premises are to be permanently discontinued, the proprietor shall file with the appropriate TTB officer a notice in letter form to cover the discontinuance. The proprietor shall state in the notice the date on which operations will be discontinued and, if the wine premises are to be transferred to a successor proprietor, the name of the successor proprietor. Any basic permit issued to the proprietor under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (49 Stat. 978; 27 U.S.C. 203) for the operation discontinued will be submitted to the appropriate TTB officer with a written request for cancellation.


(b) *Bonded wine premises.* The proprietor shall certify in the notice, as applicable, that:


(1) All wine, spirits, or volatile fruit-flavor concentrate have been lawfully removed from bonded wine premises, destroyed, or transferred to a successor as of the effective date of discontinuance,


(2) No wine, spirits, or volatile fruit-flavor concentrate are in transit to bonded wine premises, and


(3) All approved applications covering the transfer of spirits to bonded wine premises have been returned to the appropriate TTB officer.


(c) *Taxpaid wine bottling house premises or Taxpaid wine premises.* The proprietor shall certify in the notice that all taxpaid United States or foreign wine on hand have been disposed of, or if not yet disposed of, the manner of disposition and the time period in which the disposition will occur. The proprietor shall include taxpaid United States wine on the TTB F 5120.17 report marked “Final.” Any United States taxpaid wine transferred to a successor will be identified as “Transferred to successor” on the report and identified as “Received from predecessor” on the initial report filed by the successor. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-338, 58 FR 19064, Apr. 12, 1993; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, Mar. 22, 1999]




