# § 1.861-4   Compensation for labor or personal services.

(a) *Compensation for labor or personal services performed wholly within the United States.* (1) Generally, compensation for labor or personal services, including fees, commissions, fringe benefits, and similar items, performed wholly within the United States is gross income from sources within the United States.


(i) The labor or services are performed by a nonresident alien individual temporarily present in the United States for a period or periods not exceeding a total of 90 days during his taxable year,


(ii) The compensation for such labor or services does not exceed in the aggregate a gross amount of $3,000, and


(iii) The compensation is for labor or services performed as an employee of, or under any form of contract with—


(*a*) A nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in trade or business within the United States, or


(*b*) An individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a domestic partnership, or a domestic corporation, if such labor or services are performed for an office or place of business maintained in a foreign country or in a possession of the United States by such individual, partnership, or corporation.


(2) As a general rule, the term “day”, as used in subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph, means a calendar day during any portion of which the nonresident alien individual is physically present in the United States.


(3) Solely for purposes of applying this paragraph, the nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation for which the nonresident alien individual is performing personal services in the United States shall not be considered to be engaged in trade or business in the United States by reason of the performance of such services by such individual.


(4) In determining for purposes of subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph whether compensation received by the nonresident alien individual exceeds in the aggregate a gross amount of $3,000, any amounts received by the individual from an employer as advances or reimbursements for travel expenses incurred on behalf of the employer shall be omitted from the compensation received by the individual, to the extent of expenses incurred, where he was required to account and did account to his employer for such expenses and has met the tests for such accounting provided in § 1.162-17 and paragraph (e)(4) of § 1.274-5. If advances or reimbursements exceed such expenses, the amount of the excess shall be included as compensation for personal services for purposes of such subparagraph. Pensions and retirement pay attributable to labor or personal services performed in the United States are not to be taken into account for purposes of subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph. (5) For definition of the term “United States”, when used in a geographical sense, see sections 638 and 7701(a)(9).


(b) *Compensation for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States*—(1) *Compensation for labor or personal services performed by persons other than individuals*—(i) *In general.* In the case of compensation for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States by a person other than an individual, the part of that compensation that is attributable to the labor or personal services performed within the United States, and that is therefore included in gross income as income from sources within the United States, is determined on the basis that most correctly reflects the proper source of the income under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. In many cases, the facts and circumstances will be such that an apportionment on the time basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this section, will be acceptable.


(ii) *Example.* The application of paragraph (b)(1)(i) is illustrated by the following example.


(2) *Compensation for labor or personal services performed by an individual*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, in the case of compensation for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States by an individual, the part of such compensation that is attributable to the labor or personal services performed within the United States, and that is therefore included in gross income as income from sources within the United States, is determined on the basis that most correctly reflects the proper source of that income under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. In many cases, the facts and circumstances will be such that an apportionment on a time basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this section, will be acceptable.


(ii) *Employee compensation*—(A) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section, in the case of compensation for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States by an individual as an employee, the part of such compensation that is attributable to the labor or personal services performed within the United States, and that is therefore included in gross income as income from sources within the United States, is determined on a time basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this section.


(B) *Certain fringe benefits sourced on a geographical basis.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, items of compensation of an individual as an employee for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States that are described in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*1*) through (*6*) of this section are sourced on a geographical basis in accordance with those paragraphs.


(C) *Exceptions and special rules*—(*1*) *Alternative basis*—(*i*) *Individual as an employee generally.* An individual may determine the source of his or her compensation as an employee for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States under an alternative basis if the individual establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that, under the facts and circumstances of the particular case, the alternative basis more properly determines the source of the compensation than a basis described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B), whichever is applicable, of this section. An individual that uses an alternative basis must retain in his or her records documentation setting forth why the alternative basis more properly determines the source of the compensation. In addition, the individual must provide the information related to the alternative basis required by applicable Federal tax forms and accompanying instructions.


(*ii*) *Determination by Commissioner.* The Commissioner may, under the facts and circumstances of the particular case, determine the source of compensation that is received by an individual as an employee for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States under an alternative basis other than a basis described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section if such compensation either is not for a specific time period or constitutes in substance a fringe benefit described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D) of this section notwithstanding a failure to meet any requirement of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D) of this section. The Commissioner may make this determination only if such alternative basis determines the source of compensation in a more reasonable manner than the basis used by the individual pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(*2*) *Ruling or other administrative pronouncement with respect to groups of taxpayers.* The Commissioner may, by ruling or other administrative pronouncement applying to similarly situated taxpayers generally, permit individuals to determine the source of their compensation as an employee for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States under an alternative basis. Any such individual shall be treated as having met the requirement to establish such alternative basis to the satisfaction of the Commissioner under the facts and circumstances of the particular case, provided that the individual meets the other requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*)(*i*) of this section. The Commissioner also may, by ruling or other administrative pronouncement, indicate the circumstances in which he will require individuals to determine the source of certain compensation as an employee for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States under an alternative basis pursuant to the authority under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section.


(*3*) *Artists and athletes.* [Reserved]


(D) *Fringe benefits sourced on a geographical basis.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, compensation of an individual as an employee for labor or personal services performed partly within and partly without the United States in the form of the following fringe benefits is sourced on a geographical basis as indicated in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D). The amount of the compensation in the form of the fringe benefit must be reasonable, and the individual must substantiate such amounts by adequate records or by sufficient evidence under rules similar to those set forth in § 1.274-5T(c) or (h) or § 1.132-5. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D), the term *principal place of work* has the same meaning that it has for purposes of section 217 and § 1.217-2(c)(3).


(*1*) *Housing fringe benefit.* The source of compensation in the form of a housing fringe benefit is determined based on the location of the individual's principal place of work. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*1*), a housing fringe benefit includes payments to or on behalf of an individual (and the individual's family if the family resides with the individual) only for rent, utilities (other than telephone charges), real and personal property insurance, occupancy taxes not deductible under section 164 or 216(a), nonrefundable fees paid for securing a leasehold, rental of furniture and accessories, household repairs, residential parking, and the fair rental value of housing provided in kind by the individual's employer. A housing fringe benefit does not include payments for expenses or items set forth in § 1.911-4(b)(2).


(*2*) *Education fringe benefit.* The source of compensation in the form of an education fringe benefit for the education expenses of the individual's dependents is determined based on the location of the individual's principal place of work. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*2*), an education fringe benefit includes payments only for qualified tuition and expenses of the type described in section 530(b)(4)(A)(i) (regardless of whether incurred in connection with enrollment or attendance at a school) and expenditures for room and board and uniforms as described in section 530(b)(4)(A)(ii) with respect to education at an elementary or secondary educational institution.


(*3*) *Local transportation fringe benefit.* The source of compensation in the form of a local transportation fringe benefit is determined based on the location of the individual's principal place of work. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*3*), an individual's local transportation fringe benefit is the amount that the individual receives as compensation for local transportation of the individual or the individual's spouse or dependents at the location of the individual's principal place of work. The amount treated as a local transportation fringe benefit is limited to the actual expenses incurred for local transportation and the fair rental value of any vehicle provided by the employer and used predominantly by the individual or the individual's spouse or dependents for local transportation. For this purpose, actual expenses incurred for local transportation do not include the cost (including interest) of the purchase by the individual, or on behalf of the individual, of an automobile or other vehicle.


(*4*) *Tax reimbursement fringe benefit.* The source of compensation in the form of a foreign tax reimbursement fringe benefit is determined based on the location of the jurisdiction that imposed the tax for which the individual is reimbursed.


(*5*) *Hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit.* The source of compensation in the form of a hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit is determined based on the location of the hazardous or hardship duty zone for which the hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit is paid. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*5*), a hazardous or hardship duty zone is any place in a foreign country which is either designated by the Secretary of State as a place where living conditions are extraordinarily difficult, notably unhealthy, or where excessive physical hardships exist, and for which a post differential of 15 percent or more would be provided under section 5925(b) of title 5 of the U.S. Code to any officer or employee of the U.S. Government present at that place, or where a civil insurrection, civil war, terrorism, or wartime conditions threatens physical harm or imminent danger to the health and well-being of the individual. Compensation provided an employee during the period that the employee performs labor or personal services in a hazardous or hardship duty zone may be treated as a hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit only if the employer provides the hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit only to employees performing labor or personal services in a hazardous or hardship duty zone. The amount of compensation treated as a hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit may not exceed the maximum amount that the U.S. government would allow its officers or employees present at that location.


(*6*) *Moving expense reimbursement fringe benefit.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*6*), the source of compensation in the form of a moving expense reimbursement is determined based on the location of the employee's new principal place of work. The source of such compensation is determined based on the location of the employee's former principal place of work, however, if the individual provides sufficient evidence that such determination of source is more appropriate under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)(*6*), sufficient evidence generally requires an agreement, between the employer and the employee, or a written statement of company policy, which is reduced to writing before the move and which is entered into or established to induce the employee or employees to move to another country. Such written statement or agreement must state that the employer will reimburse the employee for moving expenses that the employee incurs to return to the employee's former principal place of work regardless of whether he or she continues to work for the employer after returning to that location. The writing may contain certain conditions upon which the right to reimbursement is determined as long as those conditions set forth standards that are definitely ascertainable and can only be fulfilled prior to, or through completion of, the employee's return move to the employee's former principal place of work.


(E) *Time basis.* The amount of compensation for labor or personal services performed within the United States determined on a time basis is the amount that bears the same relation to the individual's total compensation as the number of days of performance of the labor or personal services by the individual within the United States bears to his or her total number of days of performance of labor or personal services. A unit of time less than a day may be appropriate for purposes of this calculation. The time period for which the compensation for labor or personal services is made is presumed to be the calendar year in which the labor or personal services are performed, unless the taxpayer establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, or the Commissioner determines, that another distinct, separate, and continuous period of time is more appropriate. For example, a transfer during a year from a position in the United States to a foreign posting that lasted through the end of that year would generally establish two separate time periods within that taxable year. The first of these time periods would be the portion of the year preceding the start of the foreign posting, and the second of these time periods would be the portion of the year following the start of the foreign posting. However, in the case of a foreign posting that requires short-term returns to the United States to perform services for the employer, such short-term returns would not be sufficient to establish distinct, separate, and continuous time periods within the foreign posting time period but would be relevant to the allocation of compensation relating to the overall time period. In each case, the source of the compensation on a time basis is based upon the number of days (or unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) in that separate time period.


(F) *Multi-year compensation arrangements.* The source of multi-year compensation is determined generally on a time basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this section, over the period to which such compensation is attributable. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F), *multi-year compensation* means compensation that is included in the income of an individual in one taxable year but that is attributable to a period that includes two or more taxable years. The determination of the period to which such compensation is attributable, for purposes of determining its source, is based upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case. For example, an amount of compensation that specifically relates to a period of time that includes several calendar years is attributable to the entirety of that multi-year period. The amount of such compensation that is treated as from sources within the United States is the amount that bears the same relationship to the total multi-year compensation as the number of days (or unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) that labor or personal services were performed within the United States in connection with the project bears to the total number of days (or unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) that labor or personal services were performed in connection with the project. In the case of stock options, the facts and circumstances generally will be such that the applicable period to which the compensation is attributable is the period between the grant of an option and the date on which all employment-related conditions for its exercise have been satisfied (the vesting of the option).


(G) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii):


(c) *Coastwise travel.* Except as to income excluded by paragraph (a) of this section, wages received for services rendered inside the territorial limits of the United States and wages of an alien seaman earned on a coastwise vessel are to be regarded as from sources within the United States.


(d) *Effective date.* This section applies with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966. For corresponding rules applicable to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, see 26 CFR 1.861-4 (Revised as of January 1, 1972). Paragraph (b) and the first sentence of paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply to taxable years beginning on or after July 14, 2005.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7378, 40 FR 45433, Oct. 2, 1975; 40 FR 48508, Oct. 16, 1975; T.D. 9212, 70 FR 40665, July 14, 2005]




