# § 1.7872-16   Loans to an exchange facilitator under § 1.468B-6.

(a) *Exchange facilitator loans.* This section provides rules in applying section 7872 to an exchange facilitator loan (within the meaning of § 1.468B-6(c)(1)). For purposes of this section, the terms *deferred exchange, exchange agreement, exchange facilitator, exchange funds, qualified intermediary, replacement property*, and *taxpayer* have the same meanings as in § 1.468B-6(b).


(b) *Treatment as demand loans.* For purposes of section 7872, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an exchange facilitator loan is a demand loan.


(c) *Treatment as compensation-related loans.* If an exchange facilitator loan is a below-market loan, the loan is a compensation-related loan under section 7872(c)(1)(B).


(d) *Applicable Federal rate (AFR) for exchange facilitator loans.* For purposes of section 7872, in the case of an exchange facilitator loan, the applicable Federal rate is the lower of the short-term AFR in effect under section 1274(d)(1) (as of the day on which the loan is made), compounded semiannually, or the 91-day rate. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the 91-day rate is equal to the investment rate on a 13-week (generally 91-day) Treasury bill with an issue date that is the same as the date that the exchange facilitator loan is made or, if the two dates are not the same, with an issue date that most closely precedes the date that the exchange facilitator loan is made.


(e) *Use of approximate method permitted.* The taxpayer and exchange facilitator may use the approximate method to determine the amount of forgone interest on any exchange facilitator loan.


(f) *Exemption for certain below-market exchange facilitator loans.* If an exchange facilitator loan is a below-market loan, the loan is not eligible for the exemptions from section 7872 listed under § 1.7872-5T. However, the loan may be eligible for the exemption from section 7872 under § 1.7872-5(b)(16) (relating to exchange facilitator loans in which the amount treated as loaned does not exceed $2,000,000).


(g) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to exchange facilitator loans issued on or after October 8, 2008.


(h) *Example.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following example:



---

[N] [T.D. 9413, 73 FR 39622, July 10, 2008]




