# § 4279.256   Construction planning and performing development.

The Lender and Borrower must comply with paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section. The Lender may contract for services and may rely on certain written materials and other reports to be provided by an independent engineer and other qualified third parties.


(a) *Design policy.* The Lender must monitor and require the Borrower ensure that all facilities constructed with Program funds are designed, and costs estimated, by an independent professional utilizing accepted architectural, engineering, and design practices and conform to applicable Federal, State, and local codes and requirements.


(b) *Project control.* (1) The Lender must monitor the progress of construction and confirm the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local code requirements have been performed; proceeds are used in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents; and that loan funds are used for Eligible Project Costs in accordance with the purposes approved by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment. The Lender must expeditiously report any problems in Project development to the Agency.


(2) The Lender must ensure an onsite Project inspector or independent engineer monitors the Project.


(3) The Lender must monitor the Project to confirm that the Project will be completed with available funds and, once completed, will be used for its intended purpose and produce products in the quality and quantity proposed in the completed application approved by the Agency. Once construction is completed, the Lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the notice of completion.


(4) Prior to the disbursement of construction funds, the Lender shall:


(i) Have on file the major drawings issued for construction and major equipment specifications issued for procurement;


(ii) Have a detailed timetable for the Project with a corresponding budget of costs, setting forth the parties responsible for payment;


(iii) Ensure that the independent engineer confirms that the budget is adequate for the Project;


(iv) Require the Borrower to have a firm fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contract in place which includes performance guarantees customary and reasonable for a project of this nature or engineering, construction, and procurement contracts in place with vendors and construction contractors for the construction of the Project, each on customary terms and conditions;


(v) Require provisions for change order approvals, a retainage percentage, and a disbursement schedule;


(vi) Require the Borrower to have contingencies in place to handle unforeseeable cost overruns without seeking additional Agency assistance. These contingencies must be agreed to by the Agency.


(c) *Changes and cost overruns.* The Borrower is responsible for any changes or cost overruns. If any such change or cost overrun occurs, then any change order must be expressly approved by the Agency, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and neither the Lender nor Borrower will divert funds from purposes identified in the guaranteed loan application approved by the Agency to pay for any such change or cost overrun without the express written approval of the Agency. In no event will the current loan be modified or a subsequent guaranteed loan be approved to cover any such changes or costs. In the event of any of the aforementioned increases in cost or expenses, the Borrower must provide for such increases in a manner that does not diminish the Borrower's operating capital. Failure to comply with the terms of this paragraph (c) will be considered a Material Adverse Change in the Borrower's financial condition, and the Lender must address this matter, in writing, to the Agency's satisfaction.


(d) *New draw certifications.* The following three certifications are required for each new draw:


(1) Certification by the Project engineer to the Lender that the work referred to in the draw has been successfully completed;


(2) Certification that all debts have been paid and all mechanics' liens have been waived; and


(3) Certification that the Borrower is complying with the Davis-Bacon Act (see paragraph (h) of this section).


(e) *Surety.* Surety, as the term is commonly used in the industry, will be required. The Borrower must have either 100 percent performance/payment bonds on the contractors or a guarantee from a creditworthy parent entity or an alternative acceptable to the Lender and the Agency and must be secured. The bonding agent must be listed on Treasury Circular 570.


(f) *Equal opportunity.* For all construction contracts in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by Executive Order 11375, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60). The Borrower and Lender are responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.


(g) *Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).* Construction of or addition to facilities that accommodate the public or commercial facilities, as defined by the ADA, must comply with the ADA.


(h) *Wage rates.* As a condition of receiving a loan guaranteed under this subpart, each Borrower shall ensure that all laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction work financed in whole or in part with guaranteed loan funds under this subpart shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with sections 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40, U.S.C. Awards under this subpart are further subject to the relevant regulations contained in 29 CFR part 5.


(i) *Reporting during construction.* Lenders must submit monthly construction and quarterly progress reports to the Agency, as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2), respectively, of this section and the Borrower information specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.


(1) Monthly construction reports documenting the use of the Project funding until construction is completed. The reports must include the following:


(i) Certifications for each draw request:


(A) Certification by the independent engineer to the Lender that the work referred to in the draw has been successfully completed;


(B) Certification from the Borrower and independent engineer or that the proceeds of the prior draw have been applied to Eligible Project Costs in accordance with the draw request and that the contractors have delivered mechanics' lien waivers in connection with such draw; and


(C) Certification from the Borrower as to its compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act confirmed by the independent engineer;


(ii) List of invoices;


(iii) Detail of equity and Guaranteed Loan funds paid to date;


(iv) Status of construction and inspection reports; and


(v) Concerns, potential problems, cost overruns, etc.


(2) Quarterly progress reports by the end of each Calendar Quarter, unless more frequent ones are needed as determined by the Agency, through the time when the facility is producing at its designed capacity at a steady state. These reports must contain, at a minimum, planned and completed construction milestones, loan advances, and personnel hiring, training, and retention and commissioning and ramp-up milestones and performance reports. This requirement applies to both the development and construction of Commercial-Scale Biorefineries and to the Retrofitting of existing facilities using Eligible Technology for the development of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals. The Lender must expeditiously report any problems in Project development to the Agency.


(3) Once construction is completed, the Lender must provide the Agency with:


(i) A copy of all required material building permits, with sign-offs;


(ii) Notice of Completion or an Agency approved equivalent; and


(iii) Final accounting of sources and uses of all Project funds.




