# § 156.144   Residue removal instructions—general.

(a) *General.* Except as provided by paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, the label of each pesticide product must include the applicable instructions for removing pesticide residues from the container prior to container disposal that are specified in § 156.146 and § 156.156. The residue removal instructions are required for both nonrefillable and refillable containers.


(b) *Placement of residue removal statements.* All residue removal instructions must be placed under the heading “Storage and Disposal.”


(c) *Exemption for residential/household use products.* Residential/household use pesticide products are exempt from the residue removal instruction requirements in this section through § 156.156.


(d) *Modification.* EPA may, on its own initiative or based on data submitted by any person, modify or waive the requirements of this section through § 156.156, or permit or require alternative labeling statements.


(e) *Exemption for gases.* Pesticide products that are gaseous at atmospheric temperature and pressure are exempt from the residue removal instruction requirements in this section through § 156.156.


(f) *Exemption for articles.* Pesticidal articles that are not exempted from FIFRA regulation by § 152.25(a) of this chapter are exempt from the residue removal instruction requirements in this section through § 156.156.


(g) *Exemption for transport vehicles.* Transport vehicles are exempt from the requirements in this section through § 156.156.



---

[N] [71 FR 47420, Aug. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 64224, Oct. 29, 2008]




