# § 165.105   Security Zones; Passenger Vessels, Portland, Maine, Captain of the Port Zone.

(a) *Definition.* “Passenger vessel” as used in this section means a passenger vessel over 100 gross tons authorized to carry more than 500 passengers for hire making voyages, any part of which is on the high seas, and for which passengers are embarked, disembarked or pay a port call, in the Portland, Maine, Captain of the Port zone as delineated in 33 CFR 3.05-15. 


(b) *Location.* The following areas are security zones: 


(1) All navigable waters within the Portland, Maine, Captain of the Port Zone, extending from the surface to the sea floor, within a 100-yard radius of any passenger vessel that is anchored, moored, or in the process of mooring. 


(2) All navigable waters, within the Portland, Maine, Captain of the Port Zone, extending from the surface to the sea floor, extending 200 yards ahead, and 100 yards aside and astern of any passenger vessel that is underway. 


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.33 of this part, entry into or movement within these zones is prohibited unless previously authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, Portland, Maine (COTP) or his designated representative. 


(2) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or the designated on-scene Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant and petty officers of the Coast Guard on board Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, and local, state and federal law enforcement vessels. Emergency response vessels are authorized to move within the zone, but must abide by restrictions imposed by the COTP or his designated representative. 


(3) No person may swim upon or below the surface of the water within the boundaries of these security zones unless previously authorized by the COTP or his designated representative. 


(d) *Enforcement.* The Captain of the Port will enforce these zones and may enlist the aid and cooperation of any Federal, state, county, municipal, or private agency to assist in the enforcement of the regulation.



---

[N] [CGD01-03-001, 68 FR 22305, Apr. 28, 2003]




