# § 19.462   Determination of losses in bond.

(a) *Times for determining losses.* A proprietor must determine at any of the following times whether a loss of spirits, denatured spirits, or wines has occurred:


(1) Each time a tank or bulk conveyance is emptied;


(2) Upon discovery of an accident or an unusual variation in a gauge; and


(3) When required to take a physical inventory.


(b) *Losses from theft, tampering, or unauthorized voluntary destruction.* Whenever any spirits, denatured spirits, or wines are lost or destroyed in bond, whether by theft, tampering, or unauthorized voluntary destruction, the proprietor may elect voluntarily to pay the tax on the quantity lost. If the proprietor does not elect to pay the tax, the proprietor must promptly report the loss or destruction to the appropriate TTB officer. TTB may require that the proprietor file any claim for relief from the tax in accordance with § 19.263.


(c) *Missing packages.* When a proprietor cannot locate or otherwise account for any packages of spirits, denatured spirits, or wine recorded as deposited on bonded premises, the proprietor must promptly report that fact to the appropriate TTB officer. In such case the proprietor must either pay the tax on the lost spirits, denatured spirits, or wines or file a claim for relief from the tax in accordance with § 19.263.


(d) *Excessive in-transit losses.* A proprietor must promptly report excessive in-transit losses to the appropriate TTB officer. As a general rule, when spirits, denatured spirits, or wines are received in bond in bulk conveyances TTB will consider as excessive a loss that exceeds 1 percent of the quantity consigned. However, in the case of transcontinental transfers of wine in bond, TTB will consider as excessive only a loss in excess of 2 percent of the quantity of wine consigned.


(e) *Excessive storage losses.* A proprietor must pay the tax on excessive storage account losses of spirits unless the proprietor files a claim for remission in accordance with § 19.263 and TTB allows the claim under § 19.268. TTB will consider a storage account loss as excessive when the quantity of spirits lost during a calendar quarter from all storage tanks and stored bulk conveyances exceeds 1.5 percent of the total quantity contained in the tanks and stored bulk conveyances during the calendar quarter.


