# § 552.101   Prohibitions.

(a) *Prohibited items.* It is prohibited to possess, carry, conceal, transport, store, transfer or sell any of the following weapons or devices on, through or within the confines of Fort Stewart and Hunter AAF installations unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this regulation: 


(1) Sawed-off shotgun. 


(2) Sawed-off rifle. 


(3) Machine gun and automatic weapons. 


(4) Silencers. 


(5) Dangerous instruments as defined in § 552.100(c). 


(6) Explosives, Incendiary and Pyrotechnic Devices, as defined in § 552.100(d). 


(7) Knives with automatic blade openers (*i.e.*, switch blades, gravity knives, stilettos) of any blade length. Folding or fixed bladed knives with a blade length of more than 3 inches. Swords, sabers, and machetes with sharpened blades. 


(8) Any object which carries an electrical current of sufficient wattage to deliver a shock to a person, such as cattle prods, “taser” or “public defenders.” 


(b) *Carrying a concealed weapon.* A person commits the offense of carrying a concealed weapon when he/she knowingly has or carries about his/her person, unless in an open manner and fully exposed to view, any bludgeon, metal knuckles, firearm, or knife designed for the purpose of offense and defense, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument of like character outside of his/her home or place of business. 


(c) *Carrying Deadly Weapons to or at Public Gatherings.* A person commits an offense under this section when he/she carries to or while at a public gathering any explosive compound, firearm, or knife designed for the purpose of offense and defense. This paragraph shall not apply to competitors participating in organized sporting events, military personnel in a formation when a weapon is required, or to police/security personnel while in performance of their duties. 


(d) *Prohibited Possession and Storage.* It is prohibited for a person, military or civilian, to possess or store ammunition, firearms, knives with blades more than 3 inches, bows and arrows, crossbows, and BB and pellet guns, in locations other than those locations specified in § 552.102, except under conditions specified in § 552.103. Prohibited locations for these items include, but are not limited to, living spaces and common areas of billets, squad rooms, privately-owned vehicles, exterior storage sheds, camper trailers, and offices. Commanders will designate an arms room and times for weapons turn-in. During periods when arms rooms are closed, the Staff Duty Officer (SDO) will ensure the weapon is secured in accordance with (IAW) this regulation. A receipt will be given for each weapon received, reflecting the weapon's make, serial number, identity of owner and other data deemed appropriate. 


(e) *Exemptions.* Nothing in this regulation shall prohibit: 


(1) Military members or DOD civilian employees from possessing or using military weapons, military ammunition or explosives, or military devices in a lawful manner while in the performance of their military duties or for training or other authorized purposes, as prescribed by applicable Army Regulations. 


(2) Military and DOD civilian personnel, while in the performance of official law enforcement duties, from possessing or using government ammunition, explosives or devices in a lawful manner, as prescribed by applicable laws or regulations or by their lawful superiors. 


(3) Federal, state, county or local law enforcement personnel, while in the performance of official law enforcement duties, from possessing or using government or privately-owned weapons, ammunition, explosives or devices in a lawful manner, as prescribed by applicable laws or regulations or by their lawful superiors. 


(4) Government contractors, while in performance of their contract from possessing or using weapons, ammunition, explosives or devices, IAW the provisions of their contract and as determined by the Contracting Officer. 


(5) Individuals with Federal Firearms Licenses (Class III) from possessing, carrying, and transporting Class III weapons IAW Federal regulations; however, they are prohibited from concealing, storing, transferring, or selling Class III weapons within the confines of Fort Stewart and Hunter AAF. 


(6) Individuals from possessing, carrying, transporting, or storing decorative, ornamental, and ceremonial swords and sabers within the confines of Fort Stewart and Hunter AAF when used strictly for display and ceremonies. When used as a cutting instrument, they become a prohibited item. 


(7) Individuals and agencies from possessing, transporting, storing, selling, or using fixed bladed knives with a blade length of more than 3 inches when used for their lawful purpose (*i.e.*, steak knives, cooking knives, hunting knives) and when in compliance with all other requirements in this regulation. 




