# § 276.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Advance by Treasury check* means a payment made by a Treasury check to a grantee upon its request or through the use of predetermined payment schedules before payments are made by the grantee.


(b) *Date of completion* means the date when all work under a grant is completed or the date in the grant award document, or any supplement or amendment thereto, on which Federal assistance ends. 


(c) *Disallowed costs* means those charges to a grant which the Bureau or its representative determines to be unallowable. 


(d) *Economic enterprise* means any commercial, industrial, agricultural or business activity that is at least 51 percent Indian owned, established or organized for the purpose of profit. 


(e) *Excess property* means property under the control of the Bureau which, as determined by the Commissioner, is no longer required for its needs. 


(f) *Expendable personal property* means all tangible personal property other than nonexpendable property. 


(g) *Grant closeout* means the process by which the Bureau determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the grant have been completed by the grantee and the Bureau. 


(h) *Grantee* means the entity which is responsible for administration of the grant. 


(i) *Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which is federally recognized as eligible by the United States Government through the Secretary for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians. 


(j) *Letter of credit* means an instrument certified by an authorized official of the Bureau which authorizes a grantee to draw funds when needed from the Treasury, through a Regional Disbursing Office, in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Circular No. 1075 as modified and supplemented by a memorandum of understanding between the Bureau of Government Financial Operation, Department of the Treasury and the Department of the Interior. 


(k) *Nonexpendable personal property* means tangible personal property having useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $300 or more per unit. A grantee may use its own definition of nonexpendable personal property provided that such definition would at least include all tangible personal property as defined above. 


(l) *Personal property* means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible—having physical existence, or intangible—having no physical existence, such as patents, inventions, and copyrights. 


(m) *Real property* means land, land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, excluding removable personal property, machinery and equipment. 


(n) *Reimbursement by Treasury check* means a payment made to a grantee with a Treasury check upon request for reimbursement from the grantee. 


(o) *Suspension of a grant* means an action by the Bureau which temporarily suspends assistance under the grant pending corrective action by the grantee or pending decision to terminate the grant by the Bureau. 


(p) *Termination of a grant* means the cancellation of Federal assistance, in whole or in part, under a grant at any time prior to the date of completion. 


(q) *Tribal government, tribal governing body,* and *tribal council* means the recognized governing body of an Indian tribe. 


(r) *Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe or any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or bodies of which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities. 




