# ยง 2200.65   Issuance of subpoenas; petitions to revoke or modify subpoenas; payment of witness fees and mileage; right to inspect or copy data.

(a) *Issuance of subpoenas.* On behalf of the Commission or any Commission member, the Judge shall, on the application of any party, issue to the applying party subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and/or the production of any evidence, including, but not limited to, relevant books, records, correspondence, or documents, in the witness' possession or under the witness' control, at a deposition or at a hearing before the Commission or the Judge. The party to whom the subpoena is issued shall be responsible for its service. Applications for subpoenas, if filed prior to the assignment of the case to a Judge, shall be filed with the Executive Secretary at One Lafayette Centre, 1120 20th Street NW, Suite 980, Washington, DC 20036-3457. After the case has been assigned to a Judge, applications shall be filed with the Judge. Applications for subpoena(s) may be made ex parte. The subpoena shall show on its face the name and address of the party at whose request the subpoena was issued.


(b) *Service of subpoenas.* A subpoena may be served by any person who is not a party and is not less than 18 years of age. Service of a subpoena upon the person it names may be made by service on the person named, by certified mail return receipt requested, or by leaving a copy at the person's principal place of business or at the person's residence with a person of suitable age and discretion who resides there. A subpoena may be served at any place in the United States or any Territory or possession of the United States. A subpoena may command a person to attend and produce documents or tangible things, from any place in the United States or any Territory or possession of the United States, at any designated place of hearing or deposition.


(c) *Revocation or modification of subpoenas.* Any person served with a subpoena, whether requiring attendance and testimony (ad testificandum) or for the production of evidence (duces tecum), shall, within 5 days after the date of service of the subpoena, move in writing to revoke or modify the subpoena if the person does not intend to comply. All motions to revoke or modify shall be served on the party at whose request the subpoena was issued. The Commission or the Judge shall revoke or modify the subpoena if in its opinion the evidence whose production is required does not relate to any matter under investigation or in question in the proceedings or the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpoena is otherwise invalid. The Commission or the Judge shall make a simple statement of procedural or other grounds for the ruling on the motion to revoke, modify, or affirm. The motion to revoke or modify, any answer filed, and any ruling on the motion shall become part of the record.


(d) *Rights of persons compelled to submit data or other information in documents.* Persons compelled to submit data or other information at a public proceeding are entitled to retain documents they submitted that contain the data or information, or to procure a copy of such documents upon their payment of lawfully prescribed costs. If such persons submit the data or other information by testimony, they are entitled to a copy of the transcript of their testimony upon their payment of the lawfully prescribed costs.


(e) *Witness fees and mileage.* Witnesses summoned to appear for a deposition or to appear before the Commission or the Judge shall be paid the same witness fees and mileage expense that are paid witnesses in the federal courts. Witness fees and mileage expense shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witness appears.


(f) *Failure to comply with subpoena.* Upon the failure of any person to comply with the subpoena issued upon the request of a party, the Commission by its counsel shall recommend to the U.S. Department of Justice that proceedings be initiated in the appropriate district court for the enforcement of the subpoena, if in the Commission's judgment the enforcement of the subpoena would be consistent with law and with policies of the Act. In such instances, neither the Commission nor its counsel shall be deemed to have assumed responsibility for the effective prosecution of the subpoena before the court.




