# § 45.1   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part:


*Allocation* means the process by which an agent, having facilitated a single swap transaction on behalf of several clients, allocates a portion of the executed swap to the clients.


*As soon as technologically practicable* means as soon as possible, taking into consideration the prevalence, implementation, and use of technology by comparable market participants.


*Asset class* means a broad category of commodities, including, without limitation, any “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a(19) of the Act, with common characteristics underlying a swap. The asset classes include interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity, other commodity, and such other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.


*Business day* means the twenty-four-hour day, on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, in the location of the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty reporting data for the swap.


*Business hours* means consecutive hours during one or more consecutive business days.


*Clearing swap* means a swap created pursuant to the rules of a derivatives clearing organization that has a derivatives clearing organization as a counterparty, including any swap that replaces an original swap that was extinguished upon acceptance of such original swap by the derivatives clearing organization for clearing.


*Collateral data* means the data elements necessary to report information about the money, securities, or other property posted or received by a swap counterparty to margin, guarantee, or secure a swap, as specified in appendix 1 to this part.


*Derivatives clearing organization* means a derivatives clearing organization, as defined by § 1.3 of this chapter, that is registered with the Commission.


*Electronic reporting* (“report electronically”) means the reporting of data normalized in data elements as required by the data standard or standards used by the swap data repository to which the data is reported. Except where specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, electronic reporting does not include submission of an image of a document or text file.


*Execution* means an agreement by the parties, by any method, to the terms of a swap that legally binds the parties to such swap terms under applicable law.


*Execution date* means the date of execution of a particular swap. The execution date for a clearing swap that replaces an original swap is the date on which the original swap has been accepted for clearing.


*Financial entity* has the meaning set forth in CEA section 2(h)(7)(C).


*Global Legal Entity Identifier System* means the system established and overseen by the Legal Entity Identifier Regulatory Oversight Committee for the unique identification of legal entities and individuals.


*Legal entity identifier* or *LEI* means a unique code assigned to swap counterparties and entities in accordance with the standards set by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System.


*Legal Entity Identifier Regulatory Oversight Committee* means the group charged with the oversight of the Global Legal Entity Identifier System that was established by the Finance Ministers and the Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty nations and the Financial Stability Board, under the Charter of the Regulatory Oversight Committee for the Global Legal Entity Identifier System dated November 5, 2012, or any successor thereof.


*Life-cycle event* means any event that would result in a change to required swap creation data previously reported to a swap data repository in connection with a swap. Examples of such events include, without limitation, a counterparty change resulting from an assignment or novation; a partial or full termination of the swap; a change to the end date for the swap; a change in the cash flows or rates originally reported; availability of a legal entity identifier for a swap counterparty previously identified by some other identifier; or a corporate action affecting a security or securities on which the swap is based (e.g., a merger, dividend, stock split, or bankruptcy).


*Life-cycle-event data* means all of the data elements necessary to fully report any life cycle event.


*Mixed swap* has the meaning set forth in CEA section 1a(47)(D), and refers to an instrument that is in part a swap subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, and in part a security-based swap subject to the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


*Multi-asset swap* means a swap that does not have one easily identifiable primary underlying notional item, but instead involves multiple underlying notional items within the Commission's jurisdiction that belong to different asset classes.


*Non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty* means a swap counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization.


*Non-SD/MSP/DCO reporting counterparty* means a reporting counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization.


*Novation* means the process by which a party to a swap legally transfers all or part of its rights, liabilities, duties, and obligations under the swap to a new legal party other than the counterparty to the swap under applicable law.


*Off-facility swap* means any swap transaction that is not executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.


*Open swap* means an executed swap transaction that has not reached maturity or expiration, and has not been fully exercised, closed out, or terminated.


*Original swap* means a swap that has been accepted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization.


*Reporting counterparty* means the counterparty required to report swap data pursuant to this part, selected as provided in § 45.8.


*Required swap continuation data* means all of the data elements that must be reported during the existence of a swap to ensure that all swap data concerning the swap in the swap data repository remains current and accurate, and includes all changes to the required swap creation data occurring during the existence of the swap. For this purpose, required swap continuation data includes:


(i) All life-cycle-event data for the swap; and


(ii) All swap valuation, margin, and collateral data for the swap.


*Required swap creation data* means all data for a swap required to be reported pursuant to § 45.3 for the swap data elements in appendix 1 to this part.


*Swap* means any swap, as defined by § 1.3 of this chapter, as well as any foreign exchange forward, as defined by section 1a(24) of the Act, or foreign exchange swap, as defined by section 1a(25) of the Act.


*Swap data* means the specific data elements in appendix 1 to this part required to be reported to a swap data repository pursuant to this part or made available to the Commission pursuant to part 49 of this chapter, as applicable.


*Swap data validation procedures* means procedures established by a swap data repository pursuant to § 49.10 of this chapter to accept, validate, and process swap data reported to the swap data repository pursuant to part 45 of this chapter.


*Swap execution facility* means a trading system or platform that is a swap execution facility as defined in CEA section 1a(50) and in § 1.3 of this chapter and that is registered with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 5h and part 37 of this chapter.


*Swap transaction and pricing data* means all data elements for a swap in appendix A to part 43 of this chapter that are required to be reported or publicly disseminated pursuant to part 43 of this chapter.


*Unique transaction identifier* means a unique alphanumeric identifier with a maximum length of 52 characters constructed solely from the upper-case alphabetic characters A to Z or the digits 0 to 9, inclusive in both cases, generated for each swap pursuant to § 45.5.


*Valuation data* means the data elements necessary to report information about the daily mark of the transaction, pursuant to section 4s(h)(3)(B)(iii) of the Act, and to § 23.431 of this chapter, if applicable, as specified in appendix 1 to this part.


(b) *Other defined terms.* Terms not defined in this part have the meanings assigned to the terms in § 1.3 of this chapter.



---

[N] [85 FR 75559, Nov. 25, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 75654, Nov. 25, 2020]




