# § 697.28   Atlantic migratory group cobia.

(a) *Fishing year.* The fishing year for Atlantic migratory cobia is January 1 through December 31.


(b) *Authorized gear.* Subject to the prohibitions on gear/methods in § 697.7, the following are the only fishing gears that may be used for cobia in the EEZ of the Atlantic migratory group—automatic reel, bandit gear, handline, rod and reel, pelagic longline, and spear (including powerheads).


(c) *Size limits.* All size limits in this section are minimum size limits. Atlantic migratory group cobia not in compliance with its size limit, as specified in this section, in or from the EEZ, may not be possessed, sold, or purchased. A fish not in compliance with its size limit must be released immediately with a minimum of harm. The operator of a vessel that fishes in the EEZ is responsible for ensuring that fish on board are in compliance with the size limits specified in this section. If a size limit in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section differs from a size limit from an Atlantic state(s), then any vessel operator in the EEZ must comply with the more restrictive requirement or measure when in the waters off that state.


(1) 33 inches (83.8), fork length, for cobia that are sold (commercial sector).


(2) 36 inches (91.4 cm), fork length, for cobia that are not sold (recreational sector).


(d) *Landing fish intact.* Atlantic migratory group cobia in the EEZ, must be maintained with head and fins intact. Such fish may be eviscerated, gilled, and scaled, but must otherwise be maintained in a whole condition. The operator of a vessel that fishes in the EEZ is responsible for ensuring that fish on that vessel in the EEZ are maintained intact and, if taken from the EEZ, are maintained intact through offloading ashore, as specified in this section.


(e) *Bag and possession limits.* If a bag and/or possession limit in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section differs from a bag and/or possession limit from an Atlantic state(s), then any vessel operator in the EEZ must comply with the more restrictive requirement or measure when in the waters off that state.


(1) *Recreational bag and possession limits.* Atlantic migratory group cobia that are not sold (recreational sector)—1, not to exceed 6 fish per vessel per day.


(2) *Possession limits.* A person who is on a trip that spans more than 24 hours may possess no more than two daily bag limits, provided such trip is on a vessel that is operating as a charter vessel or headboat, the vessel has two licensed operators aboard, and each passenger is issued and has in possession a receipt issued on behalf of the vessel that verifies the length of the trip.


(f) *Quotas.* All weights are in round and eviscerated weight combined.


(1) *Commercial quota.* The following quota applies to persons who fish for cobia for commercial purposes—73,116 lb (33,165 kg). If the sum of the cobia landings that are sold, as estimated by the ASMFC, reach or are projected to reach the quota specified in this paragraph (f)(1), then the ASMFC will notify NMFS of the need for a commercial closure of the EEZ. NMFS will then subsequently file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register to prohibit (for commercial purposes) the harvest, sale, trade, barter, or purchase of cobia for the remainder of the fishing year.


(2) *Restrictions applicable after a quota closure.* (i) If the recreational sector for Atlantic migratory group cobia is open, the bag and possession specified in paragraph (e) of this section apply to all harvest or possession in or from the EEZ. If the recreational sector is closed, all applicable harvest or possession in or from the EEZ is prohibited.


(ii) The sale or purchase of Atlantic migratory group cobia in or from the EEZ during a closure is prohibited. The prohibition on the sale or purchase during a closure does not apply to Atlantic migratory group cobia that were harvested, landed ashore, and sold prior to the effective date of the closure and were held in cold storage by a dealer or processor.


(g) *Commercial trip limits.* Commercial trip limits are limits on the amount of Atlantic migratory group cobia that may be possessed on board or landed, purchased, or sold from a vessel per day. A person who fishes in the EEZ may not combine a trip limit specified in this section with any trip or possession limit applicable to state waters. Atlantic migratory group cobia specified in this section taken in the EEZ may not be transferred at sea, regardless of where such transfer takes place, and such species may not be transferred in the EEZ. Commercial trip limits apply as follows—Until the commercial quota specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section is reached, 2 fish per person, not to exceed 6 fish per vessel.



---

[N] [84 FR 4738, Feb. 19, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 61717, Nov. 8, 2021]







