# § 1048.105   What evaporative emission standards and requirements apply?

Starting in the 2007 model year, new engines that run on a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline) must meet the emission standards of this section over a useful life of five years, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Note that § 1048.245 allows you to use design-based certification instead of generating new emission data.


(a) *Fuel line permeation.* For nonmetallic fuel lines, you must specify and use products that meet the Category 1 specifications for permeation in the November 1996 or November 2004 versions of SAE J2260 (both incorporated by reference in § 1048.810).


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Diurnal emissions.* Evaporative hydrocarbon emissions may not exceed 0.2 grams per gallon of fuel tank capacity when measured using the test procedures specified in § 1048.501. Diurnal emission controls must continue to function during engine operation.


(d) *Running loss.* Liquid fuel in the fuel tank may not reach boiling during continuous engine operation in the final installation at an ambient temperature of 30 °C. Note that gasoline with a Reid vapor pressure of 62 kPa (9 psi) begins to boil at about 53 °C at atmospheric pressure, and at about 60 °C for fuel tanks that hold pressure as described in § 1048.245(e)(1)(i).


(e) *Installation.* If other companies install your engines in their equipment, you may introduce your engines into U.S. commerce without meeting all the requirements in this section. However, you must give equipment manufacturers any appropriate instructions so that fully assembled equipment will meet all the requirements in this section, as described in § 1048.130. Your instructions may specify that equipment manufacturers may alternatively use other fuel-system components that have been certified under 40 CFR part 1060. Introducing equipment into U.S. commerce without meeting all the requirements of this section violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).


(f) *Motor vehicles and marine vessels.* Motor vehicles and marine vessels may contain engines subject to the exhaust emission standards in this part 1048. Evaporative emission standards apply to these products as follows:


(1) Marine vessels using spark-ignition engines are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 1045. The vessels are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1048.


(2) Motor vehicles are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 86. They are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1048.



---

[N] [73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 36396, June 17, 2013]




