# § 208.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


(a) *Board of Directors* means the governing board of any institution performing the usual functions of a board of directors.


(b) *Board* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


(c) *Branch.* (1) Branch means any branch bank, branch office, branch agency, additional office, or any branch place of business that receives deposits, pays checks, or lends money. A branch may include a temporary, seasonal, or mobile facility that meets these criteria.


(2) *Branch* does not include:


(i) A loan origination facility where the proceeds of loans are not disbursed;


(ii) An office of an affiliated or unaffiliated institution that provides services to customers of the member bank on behalf of the member bank so long as the institution is not established or operated by the bank;


(iii) An automated teller machine;


(iv) A remote service unit;


(v) A facility to which the bank does not permit members of the public to have physical access for purposes of making deposits, paying checks, or borrowing money (such as an office established by the bank that receives deposits only through the mail); or


(vi) A facility that is located at the site of, or is an extension of, an approved main office or branch. The Board determines whether a facility is an extension of an existing main or branch office on a case-by-case basis.


(d) *Capital stock and surplus* means, unless otherwise provided in this part, or by statute:


(1) Tier 1 and tier 2 capital included in a member bank's risk-based capital (as defined in § 217.2 of Regulation Q); and


(2) The balance of a member bank's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, not included in its tier 2 capital for calculation of risk-based capital, based on the bank's most recent Report of Condition and Income filed under 12 U.S.C. 324. 


(3) For a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), capital stock and surplus means the bank's Tier 1 capital (as defined in § 217.2 of this chapter and calculated in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter) plus allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable.


(e) *Eligible bank* means a member bank that:


(1) Is well capitalized as defined in subpart D of this part;


(2) Has a composite Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (CAMELS) rating of 1 or 2;


(3) Has a Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) (12 U.S.C. 2906) rating of “Outstanding” or “Satisfactory;”


(4) Has a compliance rating of 1 or 2; and


(5) Has no major unresolved supervisory issues outstanding (as determined by the Board or appropriate Federal Reserve Bank in its discretion).


(f) *State bank* means any bank incorporated by special law of any State, or organized under the general laws of any State, or of the United States, including a Morris Plan bank, or other incorporated banking institution engaged in a similar business.


(g) *State member bank or member bank* means a state bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.



---

[N] [63 FR 37637, July 13, 1998, as amended by Reg. H, 78 FR 62281, Oct. 11, 2013; 80 FR 70672, Nov. 16, 2015; 84 FR 4240, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61796, Nov. 13, 2019]




