# ยง 902.33   Financial reporting requirements.

(a) *Annual financial report.* All PHAs must submit their unaudited and audited financial data to HUD on an annual basis. The financial information must be:


(1) Prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as further defined by HUD in supplementary guidance; and


(2) Submitted electronically in the format prescribed by HUD using the Financial Data Schedule (FDS).


(b) *Annual unaudited financial information report filing dates.* The unaudited financial information to be submitted to HUD in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted to HUD annually, no later than 2 months after the PHA's fiscal year end, with no penalty applying until the 16th day of the 3rd month after the PHA's fiscal year end, in accordance with ยง 902.62.


(c) *Annual audited financial information compliance dates.* Audited financial statements will be required no later than 9 months after the PHA's fiscal year end, in accordance with the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.


(d) *Year-end audited financial information.* All PHAs that meet the federal assistance threshold stated in the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, must also submit year-end audited financial information.


(e) *Submission of information.* In addition to the submission of information required by paragraph (a) of this section, a PHA shall provide one copy of the completed audit report package and the Management Letter issued by the Independent Auditor to the local HUD field office having jurisdiction over the PHA.



---

[N] [76 FR 10149, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 75941, Dec. 7, 2015]




