# § 97.5   Retired unit exemption.

(a) This section applies to any NO_X_ Budget unit, other than a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit, that is permanently retired. 


(b)(1) Any NO_X_ Budget unit, other than a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit, that is permanently retired shall be exempt from the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program, except for the provisions of this section, § 97.2, § 97.3, § 97.4, § 97.7, and subparts E, F, and G of this part. 


(2) The exemption under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall become effective the day on which the unit is permanently retired. Within 30 days of permanent retirement, the NO_X_ authorized account representative (authorized in accordance with subpart B of this part) shall submit a statement to the permitting authority otherwise responsible for administering any NO_X_ Budget permit for the unit. The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a copy of the statement to the Administrator. The statement shall state, in a format prescribed by the permitting authority, that the unit is permanently retired and will comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. 


(3) After receipt of the notice under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the permitting authority will amend any permit covering the source at which the unit is located to add the provisions and requirements of the exemption under paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) of this section. 


(c) *Special provisions.* (1) A unit exempt under this section shall not emit any nitrogen oxides, starting on the date that the exemption takes effect. 


(2) The Administrator will allocate NO_X_ allowances under subpart E of this part to a unit exempt under this section. For each control period for which the unit is allocated one or more NO_X_ allowances, the owners and operators of the unit shall specify a general account, in which the Administrator will record such NO_X_ allowances. 


(3) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under this section shall retain at the source that includes the unit, records demonstrating that the unit is permanently retired. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of the period, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit is permanently retired. 


(4) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the NO_X_ authorized account representative of a unit exempt under this section shall comply with the requirements of the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect. 


(5)(i) A unit exempt under this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a title V operating permit shall not resume operation unless the NO_X_ authorized account representative of the source submits a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the unit resumes operation. 


(ii) A unit exempt under this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a non-title V permit shall not resume operation unless the NO_X_ authorized account representative of the source submits a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the unit is to first resume operation. 


(6) On the earlier of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraph (b) of this section shall lose its exemption: 


(i) The date on which the NO_X_ authorized account representative submits a NO_X_ Budget permit application under paragraph (c)(5) of this section; 


(ii) The date on which the NO_X_ authorized account representative is required under paragraph (c)(5) of this section to submit a NO_X_ Budget permit application; or


(iii) The date on which the unit resumes operation, if the unit is not required to submit a NO_X_ permit application. 


(7) For the purpose of applying monitoring requirements under subpart H of this part, a unit that loses its exemption under this section shall be treated as a unit that commences operation or commercial operation on the first date on which the unit resumes operation. 


(8) A unit that is exempt under this section is not eligible to be a NO_X_ Budget opt-in unit under subpart I of this part.



---

[N] [65 FR 2727, Jan. 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 21529, Apr. 30, 2002; 69 FR 21646, Apr. 21, 2004] 




