# ยง 292.24   Audits and management control evaluations.

(a) *Audits.* Summer EBT agencies must arrange for audits of their own operations to be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. Unless otherwise exempt, LEAs must arrange for audits to be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. Summer EBT agencies must provide the USDA Office of the Inspector General (OIG) with full opportunity to audit the Summer EBT agency and LEAs. Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the Summer EBT agency and LEA levels must be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and appendix XI, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. While OIG must rely to the fullest extent feasible upon Summer EBT agency-sponsored or LEA-sponsored audits, it must, when considered necessary:


(1) Make audits on a State or ITO-wide basis;


(2) Perform on-site test audits; and


(3) Review audit reports and related working papers of audits performed by or for Summer EBT agencies.


(b) *Management control evaluations.* Summer EBT agencies must provide USDA with full opportunity to conduct management control evaluations of all operations of the Summer EBT agency and must provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits of all Summer EBT agency Program operations. The Summer EBT agency must make available its records, including records of the receipts and expenditures of funds, upon a reasonable request by USDA.


(c) *Error reduction strategies.* USDA may omit designated areas of review, in part or entirely, where a Summer EBT agency has implemented FNS-approved error reduction strategies.






