# § 60.393   Performance test and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8 (d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this section.


(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test in accordance with § 60.8(a) and thereafter for each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.


(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining the monthly volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids.


(1) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which does not use a capture system and a control device to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.


(i) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each calendar month for each affected facility. The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or from data determined by an analysis of each coating, as received, by Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating to determine data used in the calculation of the VOC content of coatings by Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine from company records on a monthly basis the volume of coating consumed, as received, and the mass of solvent used for thinning purposes. The volume weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids used each calendar month will be determined by the following procedures.


(A) Calculate the mass of VOC used in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation where “n” is the total number of coatings used and “m” is the total number of VOC solvents used:


(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation where “n” is the total number of coatings used:


(C) Select the appropriate transfer efficiency (T) from the following tables for each surface coating operation: 


(*1*) When more than one application method (*l*) is used on an individual surface coating operation, the owner or operator shall perform an analysis to determine an average transfer efficiency by the following equation where “n” is the total number of coatings used and “p” is the total number of application methods:


(D) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:


(E) For each EDP prime coat operation, calculate the turnover ratio (R_T_) by the following equation: 


(ii) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G), calculated on a calendar month basis, is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purpose of this subpart.


(2) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.


(i) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).


(ii) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device, by the following equation: N = G[1-FE]




(A) Determine the fraction of total VOC which is emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device by using the following equation where “n” is the total number of stacks entering the control device and “p” is the total number of stacks not connected to the control device:


(*1*) In subsequent months, the owner or operator shall use the most recently determined capture fraction for the performance test.


(*2*) If the owner can justify to the Administrator's satisfaction that another method will give comparable results, the Administrator will approve its use on a case-by-case basis.








(B) Determines the destruction efficiency of the control device using values of the volumetric flow rate of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation where “n” is the total number of stacks entering the control device and “m” is the total number of stacks leaving the control device:


(*1*) In subsequent months, the owner or operator shall use the most recently determined VOC destruction efficiency for the performance test.


(C) If an emission control device controls the emissions from more than one affected facility, the owner or operator shall measure the VOC concentration (C_bi_) in the effluent gas entering the control device (in parts per million by volume) and the volumetric flow rate (Q_bi_) of the effluent gas (in dry standard cubic meters per hour) entering the device through each stack. The destruction or removal efficiency determined using these data shall be applied to each affected facility served by the control device.


(iii) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.


(3) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that recovers the VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.


(i) Calculate the mass of VOC (M_o_ + M_d_) used during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).


(ii) Calculate the total volume of coating solids (L_s_) used in each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).


(iii) Calculate the mass of VOC recovered (M_r_) each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation: M_r_ = L_r_ D_r_

(iv) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the control device during a calendar month by the following equation:


(v) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.



---

[N] [45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 51387, Oct. 11, 1994; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]




