# ยง 180.1126   Codlure, (E,E)-8,10-Dodecadien-1-ol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.

An exemption from the requirement of a tolerance is established for the insect pheromone codlure, (E,E)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol, on all raw agricultural commodities in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) Application shall be limited solely to codlure dispensers that conform to the following specifications:


(1) Commodity exposure must be limited to inadvertent physical contact. The design of the dispenser must be such as to preclude any exposure of its components to the raw agricultural commodity (RAC) or processed foods/feeds derived from the commodity due to its proximity to the RAC or as a result of its physical size. Dispensers must be of such size and construction that they are readily recognized post-application.


(2) The dispensers must be applied discretely, *i.e.*, placed in the field in easily perceived distinct locations in a manner that does not prevent later retrieval. This exemption does not apply to codlure applied in a broadcast manner either to a crop field plot or to individual plants.


(b) A codlure dispenser is a single enclosed or semi-enclosed unit that releases codlure into the surrounding atmosphere via volatilization and is applied in a manner to provide discrete application (*i.e.*, in easily perceived distinct locations in a manner that does not prevent later retrieval) of the codlure into the environment.



---

[N] [59 FR 9931, Mar. 2, 1994]




