# ยง 3590.0-5   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term: 


(a) *Established requirements* means applicable law and regulations, lease, license or permit terms, conditions and special stipulations; approved mine or exploration plan requirements; and orders issued by the authorized officer.


(b) *General mining order* means a formal numbered order issued in a rulemaking procedure by the Department of the Interior which implements the regulations in this part and applied to mining and related operations.


(c) *Lessee* means any person, partnership, association, corporation or municipality that holds a mineral lease, through issuance or assignment, in whole or part, which lease is subject to the provisions of this part.


(d) *Licensee* means any person, partnership, association, corporation or municipality that holds a mineral license, through issuance or assignment, in whole or part, which license is subject to the provisions of this part.


(e) *Permittee* means any person, partnership, association, corporation or municipality that holds a mineral prospecting permit, through issuance, or assignment, in whole or part, which permit is subject to the provisions of this part.


(f) *Operator* means anyone authorized to conduct operations pursuant to the regulations in this part.


(g) *Reclamation* means the measures undertaken to bring about the necessary reconditioning or restoration of lands or water affected by exploration, mining, on-site processing operations or waste disposal in a manner which, among other things, will prevent or control on-site or offsite damage to the environment.


(h) *Ultimate maximum recovery* means that all portions of a leased Federal mineral deposit shall be mined, based on standard industry operating practices. The requirement to achieve ultimate maximum recovery does not in any way restrict the authorized officer's authority to ensure the conservative of the mineral resource and protection of the other resources.




