# ยง 501.181   Sanctions.

(a) *General.* (1) A violation of any provision of the Act (other than section 402 of FUA), or any rule or order thereunder shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions provided in subtitle C of title VII of FUA. 


(2) Each day that any provision of the Act (other than section 402), or any rule or order thereunder is violated constitutes a separate violation within the meaning of the provisions of this section relating to civil penalties. 


(b) *Criminal penalties.* Any person who willfully violates any provision of the Act (other than section 402), or any rule or order thereunder will be subject to a fine of not more than $50,000, or to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or both, for each violation.


(c) *Civil Penalties.* (1) Any person who violates any provisions of the Act (other than section 402) or any rule in this subchapter or order under this subchapter or the Act will be subject to the following civil penalty, which may not exceed $117,608 for each violation: Any person who operates a powerplant or major fuel burning installation under an exemption, during any 12-calendar-month period, in excess of that authorized in such exemption will be assessed a civil penalty of up to $9 for each MCF of natural gas or up to $46 for each barrel of oil used in excess of that authorized in the exemption.






(2) OFE may compromise and settle, and collect civil penalties whenever it considers it to be appropriate or advisable. 


(d) *Corporate personnel.* (1) If a director, officer, or agent of a corporation willfully authorizes, orders, or performs any act or practice constituting in whole or in part a violation of the Act, or any rule or order thereunder, he will be subject to the penalties specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section without regard to any penalties to which the corporation may be subject. He will not, however, be subject to imprisonment under paragraph (b) of this section unless he knew of noncompliance by the corporation, or had received from OFE notice of noncompliance by the corporation. 


(2) Purposes of this paragraph:


(i) *Agent* includes any employee or other person acting on behalf of the corporation on either a temporary or permanent basis; and


(ii) *Notice of noncompliance* is a final Fuel Use Order issued under ยง 501.167 of this part.



---

[N] [46 FR 59889, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 62 FR 46183, Sept. 2, 1997; 74 FR 66032, Dec. 14, 2009; 81 FR 41794, June 28, 2016; 81 FR 96352, Dec. 30, 2016; 83 FR 1292, Jan. 11, 2018; 83 FR 66083, Dec. 26, 2018; 85 FR 830, Jan. 8, 2020; 86 FR 2956, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 1064, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 2193, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1028, Jan. 9, 2024; 89 FR 105406, Dec. 27, 2024]




