# § 572.76   Limbs assembly and test procedure.

(a) *Limbs assembly.* The limbs consist of the assemblies designated as SA 106C 041, SA 106C 042, SA 106C 071, and SA 106C 072, on drawing No. SA 106C 001, sheet 2, and conform to each applicable drawing listed on SA 106C 001, sheets 14 through 17.


(b) *Limbs assembly impact response requirement.* When each knee is impacted at 7.0 ±0.1 fps, according to paragraph (c) of this section, the maximum force on the femur shall not be more than 1060 pounds and not less than 780 pounds, with a duration above 400 pounds of not less than 0.8 milliseconds.


(c) *Limbs test procedure.* The test procedure for the limbs is as follows:


(1) Seat and orient the dummy without back support on a seating surface that is 11 ±0.2 inches above a horizontal (floor) surface as specified in § 572.78(c).


(i) Orient the dummy as specified in Figure 43 with the hip joint adjustment at any setting between 1g and 2g.


(ii) Place the dummy legs in a plane parallel to the dummy's midsagittal plane with the knee pivot center line perpendicular to the dummy's midsagittal plane, and with the feet flat on the horizontal (floor) surface.


(iii) Adjust the feet and lower legs until the line between the midpoint of each knee pivot and each ankle pivot is within 2 degrees of the vertical.


(2) If necessary, reposition the dummy so that at the level one inch below the seating surface, the rearmost point of the dummy's lower legs remains not less than 3 inches and not more than 6 inches forward of the forward edge of the seat.


(3) Align the test probe specified in § 572.77(a) with the longitudinal center line of the femur force gauge, so that at impact, the probe's longitudinal center line coincides with the sensor's longitudinal center line within ±2 degrees.


(4) Impact the knee with the test probe moving horizontally and parallel to the midsagittal plane at the specified velocity.


(5) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.




