# § 19.154   Bond guaranteed by deposit of securities or cash (including cash equivalents).

(a) *Bond guaranteed by deposit of securities*—(1) *General.* As an alternative to the corporate surety bond under § 19.153, a person can file a bond that guarantees payment of the liability by pledging one or more acceptable negotiable securities. These securities must have a par value (face amount) equal to or greater than the penal sums of the required bonds. The pledged securities are held in the Federal Reserve Bank in a safekeeping account with TTB as the pledgee. Should the proprietor fail to pay one or more of the guaranteed liabilities, TTB can take action to sell the deposited securities to satisfy the debt. Pledged securities will be released if there are no outstanding liabilities when the bond is terminated. (See § 19.170.)


(2) *Acceptable securities.* Only public debt obligations of the United States, the principal and interest of which are unconditionally guaranteed by the United States Government, are acceptable for the purpose described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The Department of the Treasury and certain other United States Government agencies issue debt instruments that are acceptable as collateral, such as Treasury notes and Treasury bills. Savings bonds, certificates of deposit and letters of credit are not acceptable. A list of securities acceptable as collateral in lieu of surety bonds is available from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Current information and guidance from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service Web site may be found at *https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.*

(b) *Bond guaranteed by deposit of cash or cash equivalent.* As an alternative to the corporate surety bond under § 19.153, a person can file a bond that guarantees payment of the liability by submitting cash or its equivalent (including a money order, cashier's check, or personal check). Cash or its equivalent must be no less than the penal sums of the required bond. Cash equivalents must be payable to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. A bond described in this paragraph will be released if there are no outstanding liabilities when the bond is terminated. (See § 19.170.)



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1120, Jan. 4, 2017]




