# § 350.4   Eligibility for awards.

(a) *World War II awards.* Submission of the original applications for World War II merchant marine service awards to the Maritime Administration shall include:


(1) A copy of seaman's DD Form 214, “Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty” with continuation sheet, if provided. The DD Form 214 is required to verify merchant marine service on vessels during World War II. The application and instructions for applying for this document may be obtained from the Maritime Administration, Office of Maritime Labor, Training and Safety. If a seaman was not eligible for this discharge, the Maritime Administration will accept official documents, including ships' discharges;


(2) A summary of World War II sailing history to include—theater(s) of operation and ports of discharge; and


(3) Book number or United States Maritime Service (USMS) number and World War II home address.


(b) *Korean and Vietnam Awards.* Applicants for the Korean Service bar and medal, Vietnam Service bar and medal and the Merchant Marine Expeditionary Award shall provide copies of the ship(s) discharge(s) for the appropriate voyages. All awardees will be given an appropriate certification card or certificate for their awards.


(c) The information establishing eligibility, along with a written request, shall be directed to Office of Maritime Labor, Training & Safety, Maritime Administration, Washington, DC 20590, Attention: Merchant Marine Awards.


(d) MARAD has entered into agreements with vendors to supply the medals and decorations to eligible mariners at cost. After reviewing applications, MARAD will instruct eligible mariners to submit their orders for the medals and decorations to the following vendors.


(e) Compliance with the procedure set forth in paragraph (a) of this section is required when purchasing a replacement. Certification cards need not be presented to the authorized vendors in order to purchase the bars. The possession or display, including the wearing of any Merchant Marine decoration by other than authorized personnel is prohibited by law and subject to fine and imprisonment.




