# ยง 1206.805   Inspector General.

(a) The Inspector General or designee is responsible for making final determinations under ยง 1206.701, within the time limits specified in subpart G of this part, concerning audit, inspection and investigative records originating in the Office of the Inspector General, records from outside the Government related to an audit, inspection or investigation, records prepared in response to a request from or addressed to the Office of the Inspector General, or other records originating within the Office of the Inspector General, after consultation with the General Counsel or designee on an appeal of an initial determination to the Inspector General.


(b) The Assistant Inspectors General or their designees are responsible for making initial determinations under subpart C concerning Office of Inspector General records originating in the Office of the Inspector General, records from outside the Government related to Office of Inspector General records prepared in response to a request from or addressed to the Office of the Inspector General, or other records originating with the Office of the Inspector General, after consultation with the Counsel to the Inspector General or designee.


(c) The Inspector General or designee is responsible for ensuring that requests for Agency records as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are processed and initial determinations are made within the time limits specified in subpart D of this part.


(d) The Inspector General or designee is responsible for determining whether unusual circumstances exist under ยง 1206.403 that would justify extending the time limit for an initial or final determination, for records as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(e) Records as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section include any records located at Regional and field Inspector General Offices, as well as records located at the Headquarters Office of the Inspector General.



---

[N] [79 FR 46678, Aug. 11, 2014, as amended at NASA-2019-0005, 84 FR 54779, Oct. 11, 2019]




