# ยง 197.2   What definitions apply in subpart A?

*Annual committed effective dose equivalent* means the effective dose equivalent received by an individual in one year from radiation sources external to the individual plus the committed effective dose equivalent. 


*Committed effective dose equivalent* means the effective dose equivalent received over a period of time (e.g., 30 years,), as determined by NRC, by an individual from radionuclides internal to the individual following a one-year intake of those radionuclides. 


*DOE* means the Department of Energy. 


*Effective dose equivalent* means the sum of the products of the dose equivalent received by specified tissues following an exposure of, or an intake of radionuclides into, specified tissues of the body, multiplied by appropriate weighting factors. Annual committed effective dose equivalents shall be calculated using weighting factors in appendix A of this part, unless otherwise directed by NRC in accordance with the introduction to appendix A of this part. 


*EPA* means the Environmental Protection Agency. 


*General environment* means everywhere outside the Yucca Mountain site, the Nellis Air Force Range, and the Nevada Test Site. 


*High-level radioactive waste means:*

(1) The highly radioactive material resulting from the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel, including liquid waste produced directly in reprocessing and any solid material derived from such liquid waste that contains fission products in sufficient concentrations; and 


(2) Other highly radioactive material that the Commission, consistent with existing law, determines by rule requires permanent isolation. 


*Member of the public* means anyone who is not a radiation worker for purposes of worker protection. 


*NRC* means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


*Radioactive material* means matter composed of or containing radionuclides subject to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014 *et seq.*). Radioactive material includes, but is not limited to, high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. 


*Spent nuclear fuel* means fuel that has been withdrawn from a nuclear reactor following irradiation, the constituent elements of which have not been separated by reprocessing. 


*Storage* means retention (and any associated activity, operation, or process necessary to carry out successful retention) of radioactive material with the intent or capability to readily access or retrieve such material. 


*Yucca Mountain repository* means the excavated portion of the facility constructed underground within the Yucca Mountain site. 


*Yucca Mountain site* means: 


(1) The site recommended by the Secretary of DOE to the President under section 112(b)(1)(B) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10132(b)(1)(B)) on May 27, 1986; or 


(2) The area under the control of DOE for the use of Yucca Mountain activities at the time of licensing, if the site designated under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act is amended by Congress prior to the time of licensing. 



---

[N] [66 FR 32132, June 13, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 61287, Oct. 15, 2008]




