# § 721.7620   Alkyl(heterocyclicyl) phenylazohetero monocyclic polyone, ((alkylimidazolyl) methyl) derivative (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance alkyl (heterocyclicyl) phenylazohetero monocyclic polyone, ((alkylimidazolyl) methyl) derivative (PMN P-86-136) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii) and (a)(6)(iii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f) and (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The provisions of § 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program and SDSs do not apply when the written program and SDS are not required under § 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an SDS does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g), (k) and (q). The term intermediate as used in § 721.80(g) is defined as intermediate for manufacture of dyes for coloring pulp or paper. 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1) and (c)(1).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2), (b)(2) and (c)(2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (c), (e), (f), (i) and (j). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 32418, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




