# ยง 56.3   Definitions.

(a) *Facility.* All or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or any interest in such property.


(b) *Federal financial assistance.* Any grant, loan, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the Federal Government provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:


(1) Funds.


(2) Services performed by Federal personnel, including technical assistance, counseling, training, and provision of statistical or expert information.


(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:


(i) Transfers or leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration.


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal government.


(c) *Handicapped person.* Any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. For purposes of this Directive as it relates to employment programs of recipients, such term does not include any individual who is an alcoholic or drug abuser and whose current use of alcohol or drugs prevents such individual from performing the duties of the job in question, or whose employment, by reason of such current alcohol or drug abuse, would constitute a direct threat to property or to the safety of others. As used in this paragraph:


(1) *Physical or mental impairment.* Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal and special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genito-urinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term includes such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments; cerebral palsy, epilepsy, and muscular dystrophy; multiple sclerosis; cancer; heart disease; diabetes; drug abuse; and alcoholism.


(2) *Major life activities.* Functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.


(3) *Has a record of such an impairment.* Has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


(4) *Is regarded as having an impairment.* Has: (i) A physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by a recipient or DoD Component as constituting such a limitation;


(ii) A physical or a mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or


(iii) None of the impairments defined above, but is treated by a recipient or DoD Component as having such an impairment.


(d) *Historic properties.* Those properties listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places.


(e) *Include; such as.* Not all the possible items are covered, whether like or unlike the ones named.


(f) *Qualified handicapped person.* A handicapped person who:


(1) With respect to employment, can perform the essential functions of the job in question with reasonable accommodation.


(2) With respect to services, meets the essential eligibility requirements for receiving the services in question.


(g) *Recipient.* Any State or political subdivision or instrumentality thereof, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person that receives Federal financial assistance directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but not the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance. The term includes persons and entities applying to be recipients.


(h) *Substantial impairment.* A significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.




