# § 1312.5   Amendments to tariffs.

(a) *Manner of making changes.* An amendment is a change in, addition to, or cancellation of part of a tariff. Supplements are the tariff publications used to amend bound tariffs, and new or revised pages are the tariff publications normally used to amend looseleaf tariffs, although looseleaf tariffs can also be amended by supplements. Tariffs can also be canceled by new or reissued tariffs (see § 1312.7).


(b) *Supplements.* Supplements issued to amend a tariff shall be consecutively numbered. Each new supplement shall identify any supplement(s) that it cancels, and any supplement(s) that are still in effect. A tariff amendment published in a supplement may be carried forward to later supplements if it is identified as reissued without change from the supplement in which it was originally published.


(c) *Looseleaf pages.* Looseleaf pages to an original tariff shall be designated as “Original” (e.g., Original Title Page, Original Page 1, Original Page 2, etc.). Looseleaf pages issued to amend the tariff shall bear consecutive revision numbers and shall cancel the prior version(s) of the same page (e.g., 1st Revised Page 1 Cancels Original Page 1, 2nd Revised Page 1 Cancels 1st Revised Page 1, etc.). Additional original pages may also be issued to amend a tariff, by adding new numbered pages after the last numbered page, or by adding existing numbered pages with alphabetic suffixes (e.g., a page designated as Original Page 2-A could be added between pages 2 and 3, etc.). Each looseleaf tariff shall include a Check Sheet, a Correction Number Check Sheet, or some other method of determining the looseleaf pages issued to amend such tariff.




