# § 806.22   Standards for consumptive uses of water.

(a) The project sponsors of all consumptive water uses subject to review and approval under § 806.4, § 806.5 or § 806.6 of this part shall comply with this section.


(b) *Mitigation.* All project sponsors whose consumptive use of water is subject to review and approval under § 806.4, § 806.5, § 806.6, or § 806.17 shall mitigate such consumptive use. Except to the extent that the project involves the diversion of the waters out of the basin, public water supplies shall be exempt from the requirements of this section regarding consumptive use; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt individual consumptive users connected to any such public water supply from the requirements of this section. Mitigation may be provided by one or a combination of the following:




(1) During low flow periods as may be designated by the Commission for consumptive use mitigation.


(i) Reduce withdrawal from the approved source(s), in an amount equal to the project's consumptive use, and withdraw water from alternative surface water storage or aquifers or other underground storage chambers or facilities approved by the Commission, from which water can be withdrawn for a period of 45 continuous days such that impacts to nearby surface waters will not likely be at a magnitude or in a timeframe that would exacerbate present low flow conditions.


(ii) Release water for flow augmentation, in an amount equal to the project's consumptive use, from surface water storage or aquifers, or other underground storage chambers or facilities approved by the Commission, from which water can be withdrawn for a period of 45 continuous days such that impacts to nearby surface waters will not likely be at a magnitude or in a timeframe that would exacerbate present low flow conditions.


(iii) Discontinue the project's consumptive use, which may include reduction of the project sponsor's consumptive use to less than 20,000 gpd during periods of low flow. In any case of failure to provide the specified discontinuance, such project shall provide mitigation in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for the calendar year in which such failure occurs, after which the Commission will reevaluate the continued acceptability of the discontinuance.








(2) Use, as a source of consumptive use water, surface storage that is subject to maintenance of a conservation release acceptable to the Commission. In any case of failure to provide the specified conservation release, such project shall provide mitigation in accordance with paragraph (3), below, for the calendar year in which such failure occurs, and the Commission will reevaluate the continued acceptability of the conservation release.


(3) Provide monetary payment to the Commission, for all water consumptively used over the course of a year, in an amount and manner prescribed by the Commission.


(4) Implement other alternatives approved by the Commission.


(c) *Determination of manner of mitigation.* The Commission will, in its sole discretion, determine the acceptable manner of mitigation to be provided by project sponsors whose consumptive use of water is subject to review and approval. Such a determination will be made after considering the project's location, source characteristics, anticipated amount of consumptive use, proposed method of mitigation and their effects on the purposes set forth in § 806.2 of this part, and any other pertinent factors. The Commission may modify, as appropriate, the manner of mitigation, including the magnitude and timing of any mitigating releases, required in a project approval.


(d) *Quality of water released for mitigation.* The physical, chemical and biological quality of water released for mitigation shall at all times meet the quality required for the purposes listed in § 806.2, as applicable.


(e) *Approval by rule for consumptive uses*—(1) *General rule.* Except with respect to projects involving hydrocarbon development subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, any project that is solely supplied water for consumptive use by public water supply, stormwater, wastewater, or other reused or recycled water, or any combination thereof, may be approved by the Executive Director under this paragraph (e) in accordance with the following, unless the Executive Director determines that the project cannot be adequately regulated under this approval by rule.


(2) *Notification of intent.* Prior to undertaking a project or increasing a previously approved quantity of consumptive use, the project sponsor shall submit a notice of intent (NOI) on forms prescribed by the Commission, and the appropriate application fee, along with any required attachments.


(3) *Time of notice.* Within 20 days after submittal of an NOI under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the project sponsor shall satisfy the notice requirements set forth in § 806.15.


(4) *Metering, daily use monitoring, and quarterly reporting.* The project sponsor shall comply with metering, daily use monitoring, and quarterly reporting as specified in § 806.30.


(5) *Standard conditions.* The standard conditions set forth in § 806.21 shall apply to projects approved by rule.


(6) *Mitigation.* The project sponsor shall comply with mitigation in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2) or (3) of this section.


(7) *Compliance with other laws.* The project sponsor shall obtain all necessary permits or approvals required for the project from other federal, state or local government agencies having jurisdiction over the project. The Commission reserves the right to modify, suspend or revoke any approval under this paragraph (e) if the project sponsor fails to obtain or maintain such approvals.


(8) *Decision.* The Executive Director may grant, deny, suspend, revoke, modify or condition an approval to operate under this approval by rule, or renew an existing approval by rule previously granted hereunder, and will notify the project sponsor of such determination, including the quantity of consumptive use approved. Use of small capacity sources or sources used only for supply of potable water may be appropriately included as a part of this approval by rule in the discretion of the Executive Director.


(9) *Term.* Approval by rule shall be effective upon written notification from the Executive Director to the project sponsor, shall expire 15 years from the date of such notification, and shall be deemed to rescind any previous consumptive use approvals.


(f) *Approval by rule for consumptive use related to unconventional natural gas and other hydrocarbon development projects.* (1) Any unconventional natural gas development project subject to review and approval under § 806.4(a)(8), or any other hydrocarbon development project subject to review and approval under § 806.4, § 806.5, or § 806.6, shall be subject to review and approval by the Executive Director under this paragraph (f) regardless of the source or sources of water being used consumptively.


(2) Notification of Intent: Prior to undertaking a project or increasing a previously approved quantity of consumptive use, the project sponsor shall submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) on forms prescribed by the Commission, and the appropriate application fee, along with any required attachments.


(3) Within 20 days after submittal of an NOI under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the project sponsor shall satisfy the notice requirements set forth in § 806.15.


(4) The project sponsor shall comply with metering, daily use monitoring and quarterly reporting as specified in § 806.30, or as otherwise required by the approval by rule. The project sponsor shall submit a post-hydrofracture report in a form and manner as prescribed by the Commission.


(5) The project sponsor shall comply with the mitigation requirements set forth in § 806.22(b).


(6) Any flowback or production fluids utilized by the project sponsor for hydrofracture stimulation undertaken at the project shall be separately accounted for, but shall not be included in the daily consumptive use amount calculated for the project, or be subject to the mitigation requirements of § 806.22(b).


(7) The project sponsor shall obtain all necessary permits or approvals required for the project from other federal, state, or local government agencies having jurisdiction over the project. The Executive Director reserves the right to modify, suspend or revoke any approval under this paragraph (f) if the project sponsor fails to obtain or maintain such approvals.


(8) The project sponsor shall certify to the Commission that all flowback and production fluids have been re-used or treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable state and federal law.


(9) The Executive Director may grant, deny, suspend, revoke, modify or condition an approval to operate under this approval by rule, or renew an existing approval by rule granted hereunder, and will notify the project sponsor of such determination, including the sources and quantity of consumptive use approved. The issuance of any approval hereunder shall not be construed to waive or exempt the project sponsor from obtaining Commission approval for any water withdrawals or diversions subject to review pursuant to § 806.4(a). Any sources of water approved pursuant to this section shall be further subject to any approval or authorization required by the member jurisdiction.


(10) Approval by rule shall be effective upon issuance by the Executive Director to the project sponsor, shall expire five years from the date of such issuance, and supersede any previous consumptive use approvals to the extent applicable to the project.


(11) In addition to water sources approved for use by the project sponsor pursuant to § 806.4 or this section, for unconventional natural gas development or hydrocarbon development, whichever is applicable, a project sponsor issued an approval by rule pursuant to paragraph (f)(9) of this section may utilize any of the following water sources at the drilling pad site, subject to such monitoring and reporting requirements as the Commission may prescribe:


(i) Tophole water encountered during the drilling process, provided it is used only for drilling or hydrofracture stimulation.


(ii) Captured stormwater, provided it is used only for drilling or hydrofracture stimulation.


(iii) Drilling fluids, formation fluids, flowback or production fluids obtained from a drilling pad site, production well site or hydrocarbon water storage facility, provided it is used only for hydrofracture stimulation, and is handled, transported and stored in compliance with all standards and requirements of the applicable member jurisdiction.


(12) A project sponsor issued an approval by rule pursuant to paragraph (f)(9) of this section may utilize a source of water, except a public water supply, approved by the Commission pursuant to § 806.4(a) and issued to persons other than the project sponsor, provided any such source is approved for use in unconventional natural gas development, or hydrocarbon development, whichever is applicable, the project sponsor has an agreement for its use and the project sponsor registers such source with the Commission on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Commission. Use of the registered source shall not commence until the Commission acknowledges in writing that the registration is proper and complete.


(13) A project sponsor issued an approval by rule pursuant to paragraph (f)(9) of this section may also utilize other sources of water, including but not limited to, water withdrawals or wastewater discharge not otherwise associated with an approval issued by the Commission pursuant to § 806.4(a), public water supplies, or another approval by rule issued pursuant to paragraph (f)(9) of this section, provided such sources are first approved by the Executive Director. Any request for approval shall be submitted on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Commission, shall satisfy the notice requirements set forth in § 806.15, and shall be subject to review pursuant to the standards set forth in subpart C of this part.


(14) [Reserved] 


(15) The project sponsor shall provide a copy of any registration or source approval issued pursuant to this section to the appropriate agency of the applicable member jurisdiction. The project sponsor shall record on a daily basis, and report quarterly on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Commission, the quantity of water obtained from any source registered or approved hereunder. Any source approval issued hereunder shall also be subject to such monitoring and reporting requirements as may be contained in such approval or otherwise required by this part.



---

[N] [71 FR 78579, Dec. 29, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 78620, Dec. 23, 2008; 74 FR 49812, Sept. 29, 2009; 75 FR 60621, Oct. 1, 2010; 77 FR 8099, Feb. 14, 2012; 79 FR 75430, Dec. 18, 2014; 82 FR 29393, June 29, 2017; 85 FR 16546, Mar. 24, 2020; 86 FR 52969, Sept. 24, 2021]




