# § 891.435   Security deposits.

This section shall apply to capital advances under the Section 202 Program and the Section 811 Program, as well as loans financed under subpart E of this part. For loans financed under subpart E of this part, the requirements in § 891.635 also apply. 




(a) *Collection of security deposits.* At the time of the initial execution of the lease, the Owner (or Borrower, as applicable) will require each household (or family, as applicable) occupying an assisted unit or residential space in a group home to pay a security deposit in an amount equal to one month's tenant rent or $50, whichever is greater. The household (or family) is expected to pay the security deposit from its own resources or other available public or private resources. The Owner (or Borrower) may collect the security deposit on an installment basis.



 


(b) *Security deposit provisions applicable to units*—(1) *Administration of security deposit.* The Owner (or Borrower, as applicable) must place the security deposits in a segregated interest-bearing account. The amount of the segregated, interest-bearing account maintained by the Owner (or Borrower) must at all times equal the total amount collected from the households (or families, as applicable) then in occupancy plus any accrued interest and less allowable administrative cost adjustments. The Owner (or Borrower) must comply with any applicable State and local laws concerning interest payments on security deposits. 


(2) *Household (or family, as applicable) notification requirement.* In order to be considered for the refund of the security deposit, a household (or family) must provide the Owner (or Borrower, as applicable) with a forwarding address or arrange to pick up the refund. 


(3) *Use of security deposit.* The Owner (or Borrower, as applicable), subject to State and local law and the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section, may use the household's (or family's, as applicable) security deposit balance as reimbursement for any unpaid amounts that the household (or family) owes under the lease. Within 30 days (or shorter time if required by State or local law) after receiving notification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Owner (or Borrower) must: 


(i) Refund to a household (or family) that does not owe any amount under the lease the full amount of the household's (or family's) security deposit balance; 


(ii) Provide to a household (or family) owing amounts under the lease a list itemizing each amount, along with a statement of the household's (or family's) rights under State and local law. If the amount that the Owner (or Borrower) claims is owed by the household (or family) is less than the amount of the household's (or family's) security deposit balance, the Owner (or Borrower) must refund the excess balance to the household (or family). If the Owner (or Borrower) fails to provide the list, the household (or family) will be entitled to the refund of the full amount of the household's (or family's) security deposit balance. 


(4) *Disagreements.* If a disagreement arises concerning reimbursement of the security deposit, the household (or family, if applicable) will have the right to present objections to the Owner (or Borrower, if applicable) in an informal meeting. The Owner (or Borrower) must keep a record of any disagreements and meetings in a tenant file for inspection by HUD. The procedures of this paragraph do not preclude the household (or family) from exercising its rights under State or local law. 


(5) *Decedent's interest in security deposit.* Upon the death of a member of a household (or family, as applicable), the decedent's interest, if any, in the security deposit will be governed by State or local law. 




(c) *Reimbursement by HUD for assisted units.* If the household's (or family's, if applicable) security deposit balance is insufficient to reimburse the Owner (or Borrower, if applicable) for any amount that the household (or family) owes under the lease for an assisted unit or residential space, and the Owner (or Borrower) has provided the household (or family) with the list required by paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the Owner (or Borrower) may claim reimbursement from HUD for an amount not to exceed the lesser of: 


(1) The amount owed the Owner (or Borrower); or 




(2) One month's per unit operating cost (or contract rent, if applicable), minus the amount of the household's (or family's) security deposit balance. Any reimbursement under this section will be applied first toward any unpaid tenant rent due under the lease. No reimbursement may be claimed for any unpaid tenant rent for the period after termination of the tenancy. The Owner (or Borrower) may be eligible for vacancy payments following a vacancy in accordance with the requirements of § 891.445 (or §§ 891.650 or 891.790, as applicable).





---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 9669, Feb. 14, 2023] 








