# § 41.6011(a)-1   Returns.

(a) *In general.* (1) A person that is liable for tax under § 41.4481-2(a)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) must file a return for the taxable period with respect to the tax imposed by section 4481. 


(2) A person that is liable for tax under § 41.4481-2(a)(1)(i)(D) must file a return for a taxable period with respect to the tax imposed by section 4481 if the Commissioner notifies the person that the tax for the taxable period has not been paid in full. 


(3) A transferee of a vehicle that receives a statement described in the first sentence of § 41.4483-3(f) must file a return with the statement attached. 


(4) A person that is liable for tax under § 41.4481-2(a)(1)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D), after taking into account the modification required under § 41.4481-2(a)(2), is treated as liable for tax by the same provision of § 41.4481-2(a)(1)(i) for purposes of this section and must file a return.


(b) *Form 2290.* The return required under paragraph (a) of this section is Form 2290, “Heavy Highway Vehicle Use Tax Return,” or such other return as the Commissioner may prescribe. The return is made in accordance with the instructions applicable to the form. 


(c) *Required use of electronic filing*—(1) *In general.* A person that files any return reporting 25 or more vehicles must file the return electronically, as prescribed by the Commissioner. For this purpose, the number of vehicles reported on a return is the total number of vehicles for which tax is reported and does not include vehicles for which a suspension of tax is claimed.


(2) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (c) may be illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraphs (a)(4) and (c) of this section apply to returns filed on and after July 1, 2015. For rules applicable before that date, see 26 CFR 41.6011(a)-1 (revised as of April 1, 2014).



---

[N] [T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17154, Mar. 31, 2000, as amended by T.D. 9698, 79 FR 64317, Oct. 29, 2014]




