# § 217.403   GSIB surcharge.

(a) *General.* Subject to § 217.400(b)(2), a company identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to § 217.402 must calculate its GSIB surcharge on an annual basis by December 31 of each year. For any given year, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the GSIB surcharge is equal to the greater of:


(1) The method 1 surcharge calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; and


(2) The method 2 surcharge calculated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Method 1 surcharge*—(1) *General.* The method 1 surcharge of a global systemically important BHC is the amount set forth in Table 1 of this section that corresponds to the global systemically important BHC's method 1 score, calculated pursuant to § 217.404.


(2) *Higher method 1 surcharges.* To the extent that the method 1 score of a global systemically important BHC equals or exceeds 630 basis points, the method 1 surcharge equals the sum of:


(i) 4.5 percent; and


(ii) An additional 1.0 percent for each 100 basis points that the global systemically important BHC's score exceeds 630 basis points.


(c) *Method 2 surcharge*—(1) *General.* The method 2 surcharge of a global systemically important BHC is the amount set forth in Table 2 of this section that corresponds to the global systemically important BHC's method 2 score, calculated pursuant to § 217.405.


(2) *Higher method 2 surcharges.* To the extent that the method 2 score of a global systemically important BHC equals or exceeds 1130 basis points, the method 2 surcharge equals the sum of:


(i) 6.5 percent; and


(ii) An additional 0.5 percent for each 100 basis points that the global systemically important BHC's score exceeds 1130 basis points.


(d) *Effective date of an adjusted GSIB surcharge*—(1) *Increase in GSIB surcharge.* An increase in the GSIB surcharge of a global systemically important BHC will take effect (*i.e.,* be incorporated into the maximum payout ratio under Table 1 to § 217.11) on January 1 of the year that is one full calendar year after the increased GSIB surcharge was calculated.


(2) *Decrease in GSIB surcharge.* A decrease in the GSIB surcharge of a global systemically important BHC will take effect (*i.e.,* be incorporated into the maximum payout ratio under Table 1 to § 217.11) on January 1 of the year immediately following the calendar year in which the decreased GSIB surcharge was calculated.




