# ยง 49.5511   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section contains the approved implementation plan for the Gila River Indian Community dated August 2008. The plan consists of programs and procedures that cover general and emergency authorities, ambient air quality standards, permitting requirements for minor sources of air pollution, enforcement authorities, procedures for administrative appeals and judicial review in Tribal court, requirements for area sources of fugitive dust and fugitive particulate matter, general prohibitory rules, and source category-specific emission limitations and standards.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.*

(1) Material listed in paragraph (c) of this section was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register._

(2) EPA Region IX certifies that the rules/regulations provided by EPA in the TIP compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated tribal rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the Tribal Implementation Plan as of January 19, 2011.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Region IX Office of EPA at 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105-3901 or call 415-947-4192; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, MC 2822T, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460 or call 202-566-1742; and the National Archives and Records Administration. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) *EPA-approved regulations.*

(d) Nonregulatory.



---

[N] [76 FR 17030, Mar. 28, 2011]




