# ยง 1036.240   Demonstrating compliance with criteria pollutant emission standards.

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the duty-cycle emission standards in ยง 1036.104(a)(1) and (2) if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards (including all corrections and adjustments). This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part. Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate compliance with off-cycle standards throughout the useful life.


(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard (including all corrections and adjustments). Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable off-cycle emission standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.


(c) To compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable duty-cycle emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels for each pollutant. Section 1036.245 specifies how to test engines and engine components to develop deterioration factors that represent the deterioration expected in emissions over your engines' useful life. Section 1036.246 describes how to confirm or modify deterioration factors based on in-use verification testing. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from other in-use testing with similar engines. Small manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. Apply deterioration factors as follows:


(1) *Additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions.* Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. An additive deterioration factor is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. In these cases, adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the factor is less than zero, use zero. Additive deterioration factors must be specified to one more decimal place than the applicable standard.


(2) *Multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions.* Use a multiplicative deterioration factor if good engineering judgment calls for the deterioration factor for a pollutant to be the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life to exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. For example, if you use aftertreatment technology that controls emissions of a pollutant proportionally to engine-out emissions, it is often appropriate to use a multiplicative deterioration factor. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by multiplying the measured emissions by the deterioration factor. If the factor is less than one, use one. A multiplicative deterioration factor may not be appropriate in cases where testing variability is significantly greater than engine-to-engine variability. Multiplicative deterioration factors must be specified to one more significant figure than the applicable standard.


(3) *Sawtooth and other nonlinear deterioration patterns.* The deterioration factors described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section assume that the highest useful life emissions occur either at the end of useful life or at the low-hour test point. The provisions of this paragraph (c)(3) apply where good engineering judgment indicates that the highest useful life emissions will occur between these two points. For example, emissions may increase with service accumulation until a certain maintenance step is performed, then return to the low-hour emission levels and begin increasing again. Such a pattern may occur with battery-based hybrid powertrains. Base deterioration factors for engines with such emission patterns on the difference between (or ratio of) the point at which the highest emissions occur and the low-hour test point. Note that this paragraph (c)(3) applies for maintenance-related deterioration only where we allow such critical emission-related maintenance.


(4) *Dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines.* In the case of dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, apply deterioration factors separately for each fuel type. You may accumulate service hours on a single emission-data engine using the type of fuel or the fuel mixture expected to have the highest combustion and exhaust temperatures; you may ask us to approve a different fuel mixture if you demonstrate that a different criterion is more appropriate.


(5) *Deterioration factor for crankcase emissions.* If engines route crankcase emissions into the ambient atmosphere or into the exhaust downstream of exhaust aftertreatment, you must account for any increase in crankcase emissions throughout the useful life using good engineering judgment. Use separate deterioration factors for crankcase emissions of each pollutant (either multiplicative or additive).


(d) Determine the official emission result for each pollutant to at least one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine.


(e) You do not need deterioration factors to demonstrate compliance with off-cycle standards. However, for engines designed to discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere, you must determine deteriorated emission levels to represent crankcase emissions at the end of useful life for purposes of demonstrating compliance with off-cycle emission standards. Determine an official brake-specific crankcase emission result for each pollutant based on operation over the FTP duty cycle. Also determine an official crankcase emission result for NO_X_ in g/hr from the idle portion of any of the duty cycles specified in subpart F of this part. Apply crankcase deterioration factors to all these official crankcase emission results as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figures to the same number of decimal places as the off-cycle emission standards in ยง 1036.104(a)(3).



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29741, Apr. 22, 2024]




