# ยง 932.29   Nominations.

(a) *Producer members.* (1) Nominations for producer members of the committee, and their respective alternates, may be conducted according to the following procedures, or other procedures recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary:


(i) Meetings shall be held in each producer district for the purpose of selecting candidates for the member and alternate member nominations;


(ii) Those candidates selected at the producer meetings shall be nominated by mail balloting of producers in that district;


(iii) The committee shall adopt, with approval of the Secretary, appropriate procedures to be observed for conducting producer nominations by mail: *Provided,* That the names of nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary prior to April 16 of the year in which nominations are made.


(2) Only producers, including duly authorized officers or employees of producers, shall participate in the nomination of producer members and alternate members. Each producer shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be selected in the district in which the producer produces olives. No producer shall participate in the selection of nominees in more than one district. If a producer produces olives in more than one district, such producer shall select the district in which such producer will so participate and notify the committee of such choice.


(b) *Handler members.* (1) At a meeting or meetings called by the committee, the cooperative handlers shall nominate a qualified person for each member position and a qualified person for each alternate member position allocated to cooperative handlers as provided in ยง 932.25.


(2) At a meeting or meetings called by the committee, the independent handlers shall nominate a qualified person for each member position and a qualified person for each alternate member position allocated to independent handlers as provided in ยง 932.25.


(3) Each handler shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee for cooperative handler member or alternate member or independent handler member or alternate member, as the case may be, which vote shall be weighed by the tonnages of olives handled by such handler during the crop year in which nominations are made and in the previous crop year.


(c) *Public member.* Nominations for the public member and alternate public member of the committee shall be submitted to the Secretary prior to April 16 of the year in which nominations are made. The committee shall prescribe procedures for the selection and voting for each candidate.



---

[N] [33 FR 11266, Aug. 8, 1968, as amended at 47 FR 32907, July 30, 1982]




