# § 9.21   Publicly available records.

(a) Single copies of NRC publications in the NUREG series, NRC Regulatory Guides, and Standard Review Plans can be ordered from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia, 22161.


(b) For the convenience of persons who may wish to inspect without charge, or purchase copies of a record or a limited category of records for a fee, publicly available records of the NRC's activities described in paragraph (c) of this section are also made available at the NRC Web site, *http://www.nrc.gov,* and/or at the Public Document Room located at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike (first floor), Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm on Monday through Friday except Federal holidays. 


(c) The following records of NRC activities are available for public inspection in an electronic format:


(1) Final opinions including concurring and dissenting opinions as well as orders of the NRC issued as a result of adjudication of cases;


(2) Statements of policy and interpretations that have been adopted by the NRC and have not been published in the _Federal Register_;


(3) Nuclear Regulatory Commission rules and regulations;


(4) Nuclear Regulatory Commission Manuals and instructions to NRC personnel that affect any member of the public;


(5) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format—


(i) That have been released to any person under § 9.23; and


(ii)(A) That because of the nature of their subject matter, the NRC determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; or


(B) That have been requested 3 or more times;


(6) Individual indexes to publicly available records, including those records specified in paragraph (c) of this section, may be created by using the search features of the Agencywide Documents Access and Management System (ADAMS), located at the NRC Web site, *http://www.nrc.gov.* This capability made it unnecessary for the NRC to continue publishing its monthly publication, *Documents Made Publicly Available* (NUREG-0540) after March 1999.


(d) The published versions of the records made publicly available under paragraph (c)(1) of this section are available under the title, Nuclear Regulatory Issuances, NUREG-0750, for purchase through the National Technical Information Service.



---

[N] [64 FR 48950, Sept. 9, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 67098, Nov. 4, 2002; 70 FR 34306, June 14, 2005; 81 FR 96346, Dec. 30, 2016]




