# § 425.500   Measures to assess the quality of care furnished by an ACO for performance years (or a performance period) beginning on or before January 1, 2020.

(a) *General.* CMS establishes quality performance measures to assess the quality of care furnished by the ACO. If the ACO demonstrates to CMS that it has satisfied the quality performance requirements in this subpart, and the ACO meets all other applicable requirements, the ACO is eligible for shared savings.


(b) *Selecting measures.* (1) CMS selects the measures designated to determine an ACO's success in promoting the aims of better care for individuals, better health for populations, and lower growth in expenditures.


(2) CMS designates the measures for use in the calculation of the quality performance standard.


(3) CMS seeks to improve the quality of care furnished by ACOs over time by specifying higher standards, new measures, or both.


(c) ACOs must submit data on the measures determined under paragraph (b) of this section according to the method of submission established by CMS.


(d) *Patient experience of care survey.* (1) For performance years (or a performance period) beginning in 2014 through 2019, ACOs must select a CMS-certified vendor to administer the survey and report the results accordingly.


(2) For performance year 2020, CMS waives the CAHPS for ACOs reporting requirement and will assign all ACOs automatic credit for the CAHPS for ACOs survey measures.


(e) *Audit and validation of data.* CMS retains the right to audit and validate quality data reported by an ACO.


(1) In an audit, the ACO will provide beneficiary medical records data if requested by CMS.


(2) If, at the conclusion of the audit process the overall audit match rate between the quality data reported and the medical records provided under paragraph (e)(1) of this section is less than 80 percent, absent unusual circumstances, CMS will adjust the ACO's overall quality score proportional to the ACO's audit performance.


(3) If, at the conclusion of the audit process CMS determines there is an audit match rate of less than 90 percent, the ACO may be required to submit a CAP under § 425.216 for CMS approval.


(f) Failure to report quality measure data accurately, completely, and timely (or to timely correct such data) may subject the ACO to termination or other sanctions, as described in §§ 425.216 and 425.218.



---

[N] [76 FR 67973, Nov. 2, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 80559, Nov. 15, 2016; 82 FR 53370, Nov. 15, 2017; 85 FR 85040, Dec. 28, 2020]


