# § 441.354   Aggregate projected expenditure limit (APEL).

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the term *base year* means— 


(1) Federal fiscal year (FFY) 1987 (that is, October 1, 1986 through September 30, 1987); or 


(2) In the case of a State which did not report expenditures on the basis of age categories during FFY 1987, the base year means FFY 1989 (that is, October 1, 1988 through September 30, 1989). 


(b) *General.* (1) The total amount expended by the State for medical assistance with respect to NF, home and community-based services under the waiver, home health services, personal care services, private duty nursing services, and services furnished under a waiver under subpart G of this part to individuals age 65 or older furnished as an alternative to care in an SNF or ICF (NF effective October 1, 1990), may not exceed the APEL calculated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. 


(2) In applying for a waiver under this subpart, the agency must clearly identify the base year it intends to use. 


(3) The State may make a preliminary calculation of the expenditure limit at the time of the waiver approval; however, CMS makes final calculations of the aggregate limit after base data have been verified and accepted. 


(4) All base year and waiver year data are subject to final cost settlement within 2 years from the end of the base or waiver year involved. 


(c) *Formula for calculating APEL.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the formula for calculating the APEL follows: 


(d) *Amendment of the APEL.* The State may request amendment of its APEL to reflect an increase in the aggregate amount of medical assistance for NF services and for services included in the calculation of the APEL as required by paragraph (c) of this section when the increase is directly attributable to legislation enacted on or after December 22, 1987, which amends title XIX of the Act. Costs attributable to laws enacted before December 22, 1987 will not be considered. Because the APEL for each year of the waiver is computed separately from the APEL for any other waiver year, a separate amendment must be submitted for each year in which the State chooses to raise its APEL. Documentation specific to the waiver year involved must be submitted to CMS. 




