# § 51.24   Delivery of submissions.

(a) *Delivery by U.S. Postal Service.* Submissions sent to the Attorney General by the U.S. Postal Service, including certified mail or express mail, shall be addressed to the Chief, Voting Section, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice, Room 7254-NWB, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20530.


(b) *Delivery by other carriers.* Submissions sent to the Attorney General by carriers other than the U.S. Postal Service, including by hand delivery, should be addressed or may be delivered to the Chief, Voting Section, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice, Room 7254-NWB, 1800 G Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006.


(c) *Electronic submissions.* Submissions may be delivered to the Attorney General through an electronic form available on the website of the Voting Section of the Civil Rights Division at *www.justice.gov/crt/voting/.* Detailed instructions appear on the website. Jurisdictions should answer the questions appearing on the electronic form, and should attach documents as specified in the instructions accompanying the application.


(d) *Telefacsimile submissions.* In urgent circumstances, submissions may be delivered to the Attorney General by telefacsimile to (202) 616-9514. Submissions should not be sent to any other telefacsimile number at the Department of Justice. Submissions that are voluminous should not be sent by telefacsimile.


(e) *Email.* Submissions may not be delivered to the Attorney General by email in the first instance. However, after a submission is received by the Attorney General, a jurisdiction may supply additional information on that submission by email to *vot1973c@usdoj.gov.* The subject line of the email shall be identified with the Attorney General's file number for the submission (YYYY-NNNN), marked as “Additional Information,” and include the name of the jurisdiction.


(f) *Special marking.* The first page of the submission, and the envelope (if any), shall be clearly marked: “Submission under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act.”


(g) The most current information on addresses for, and methods of making, section 5 submissions is available on the Voting Section website at *www.justice.gov/crt/voting/.*


---

[N] [Order No. 3262-2011, 76 FR 21245, Apr. 15, 2011]




