# § 682.603   Certification by a school that participated in the FFEL Program in connection with a loan application.

(a) A school shall certify that the information it provides in connection with a loan application about the borrower and, in the case of a parent borrower, the student for whom the loan is intended, is complete and accurate. Except as provided in 34 CFR part 668, subpart E, a school may rely in good faith upon statements made by the borrower and, in the case of a parent borrower of a PLUS loan, the student and the parent borrower.


(b) The information to be provided by the school about the borrower pertains to—


(1) The borrower's eligibility for a loan, as determined in accordance with § 682.201 and § 682.204;


(2) For a subsidized Stafford loan, the student's eligibility for interest benefits as determined in accordance with § 682.301; and


(3) The schedule for disbursement of the loan proceeds, which must reflect the delivery of the loan proceeds as set forth in section 428G of the Act.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, in certifying a loan, a school must certify a loan for the lesser of the borrower's request or the loan limits determined under § 682.204.


(d) Before certifying a PLUS loan application for a graduate or professional student borrower, the school must determine the borrower's eligibility for a Stafford loan. If the borrower is eligible for a Stafford loan but has not requested the maximum Stafford loan amount for which the borrower is eligible, the school must—


(1) Notify the graduate or professional student borrower of the maximum Stafford loan amount that he or she is eligible to receive and provide the borrower with a comparison of—


(i) The maximum interest rate for a Stafford loan and the maximum interest rate for a PLUS loan;


(ii) Periods when interest accrues on a Stafford loan and periods when interest accrues on a PLUS loan; and


(iii) The point at which a Stafford loan enters repayment and the point at which a PLUS loan enters repayment; and


(2) Give the graduate or professional student borrower the opportunity to request the maximum Stafford loan amount for which the borrower is eligible.


(e) A school may not certify a Stafford or PLUS loan, or a combination of loans, for a loan amount that—


(1) The school has reason to know would result in the borrower exceeding the annual or maximum loan amounts in § 682.204; or


(2) Exceeds the student's estimated cost of attendance for the period of enrollment, less—


(i) The student's estimated financial assistance for that period; and


(ii) In the case of a Subsidized Stafford loan, the borrower's expected family contribution for that period.


(f)(1)(i) The minimum period of enrollment for which a school may certify a loan application is—


(A) At a school that measures academic progress in credit hours and uses a semester, trimester, or quarter system, or has terms that are substantially equal in length with no term less than nine weeks in length, a single term (e.g., a semester or quarter); or


(B) Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, at a school that measures academic progress in clock hours, or measures academic progress in credit hours but does not use a semester, trimester, or quarter system and does not have terms that are substantially equal in length with no term less than nine weeks in length, the lesser of—


(*1*) The length of the student's program (or the remaining portion of that program if the student has less than the full program remaining) at the school; or


(*2*) The academic year as defined by the school in accordance with 34 CFR 668.3.


(ii) For a student who transfers into a school with credit or clock hours from another school, and the prior school certified or originated a loan for a period of enrollment that overlaps the period of enrollment at the new school, the new school may certify a loan for the remaining portion of the program or academic year. In this case the school may certify a loan for an amount that does not exceed the remaining balance of the student's annual loan limit.


(iii) For a student who completes a program at a school, where the student's last loan to complete that program had been for less than an academic year, and the student then begins a new program at the same school, the school may certify a loan for the remainder of the academic year. In this case the school may certify a loan for an amount that does not exceed the remaining balance of the student's annual loan limit at the loan level associated with the new program.


(2) May not, for first-time borrowers, assign through award packaging or other methods, a borrower's loan to a particular lender;


(3) May refuse to certify a Stafford or PLUS loan or may reduce the borrower's determination of need for the loan if the reason for that action is documented and provided to the borrower in writing, provided that—


(i) The determination is made on a case-by-case basis; and


(ii) The documentation supporting the determination is retained in the student's file; and


(4) May not, under paragraph (f)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, engage in any pattern or practice that results in a denial of a borrower's access to FFEL loans because of the borrower's race, sex, color, religion, national origin, age, handicapped status, income, or selection of a particular lender or guaranty agency.


(g) The maximum period for which a school may certify a loan application is—


(1) Generally an academic year, as defined by 34 CFR 668.3, except that a guaranty agency may allow a school to use a longer period of time, corresponding to the period to which the agency applies the annual loan limits; or


(2) For a defaulted borrower who has regained eligibility under § 682.401(b)(1), the academic year in which the borrower regained eligibility.


(h) In certifying a Stafford or Unsubsidized Stafford loan amount in accordance with § 682.204—


(1) A program of study must be considered at least one full academic year if—


(i) The number of weeks of instructional time is at least 30 weeks; and


(ii) The number of clock hours is a least 900, the number of semester or trimester hours is at least 24, or the number of quarter hours is at least 36;


(2) A program of study must be considered two-thirds (2/3) of an academic year if—


(i) The number of weeks of instructional time is at least 20 weeks; and


(ii) The number of clock hours is at least 600, the number of semester or trimester hours is at least 16, or the number of quarter hours is at least 24;


(3) A program of study must be considered one-third (
1/3) of an academic year if—


(i) The number of weeks of instructional time is at least 10 weeks; and


(ii) The number of clock hours is at least 300, the number of semester or trimester hours is at least 8, or the number of quarter hours is at least 12; and


(4) In prorating a loan amount for a student enrolled in a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, the school need not recalculate the amount of the loan if the number of hours for which an eligible student is enrolled changes after the school certifies the loan.


(i)(1) If a school measures academic progress in an educational program in credit hours and uses either standard terms (semesters, trimesters, or quarters) or nonstandard terms that are substantially equal in length, and each term is at least nine weeks of instructional time in length, a student is considered to have completed an academic year and progresses to the next annual loan limit when the academic year calendar period has elapsed.


(2) If a school measures academic progress in an educational program in credit hours and uses nonstandard terms that are not substantially equal in length or each term is not at least nine weeks of instructional time in length, or measures academic progress in credit hours and does not have academic terms, a student is considered to have completed an academic year and progresses to the next annual loan limit at the later of—


(i) The student's completion of the weeks of instructional time in the student's academic year; or


(ii) The date, as determined by the school, that the student has successfully completed the academic coursework in the student's academic year.


(3) If a school measures academic progress in an educational program in clock hours, a student is considered to have completed an academic year and progresses to the next annual loan limit at the later of—


(i) The student's completion of the weeks of instructional time in the student's academic year; or


(ii) The date, as determined by the school, that the student has successfully completed the clock hours in the student's academic year.


(4) For purposes of this section, terms in a loan period are substantially equal in length if no term in the loan period is more than two weeks of instructional time longer than any other term in that loan period.


(j)(1) A school must cease certifying loans based on the exceptions in section 428G(a)(3) of the Act no later than—


(i) 30 days after the date the school receives notification from the Secretary of an FFEL cohort default rate, calculated under subpart M of 34 CFR part 668, that causes the school to no longer meet the qualifications outlined in those paragraphs; or


(ii) October 1, 2002.


(2) A school must cease certifying loans based on the exceptions in section 428G(a)(3) of the Act no later than 30 days after the date the school receives notification from the Secretary of an FFEL cohort default rate, calculated under subpart M of 34 CFR part 668, that causes the school to no longer meet the qualifications outlined in those paragraphs.


(k) A school may not assess the borrower, or the student in the case of a parent PLUS loan, a fee for the completion or certification of any FFEL Program form or information or for providing any information necessary for a student or parent to receive a loan under part B of the Act or any benefits associated with such a loan.


(l) Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a school may not request the disbursement by the lender for loan proceeds earlier than the period specified in 34 CFR 668.167.



---

[N] [57 FR 60323, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 9120, Feb. 19, 1993; 59 FR 33358, June 28, 1994; 59 FR 61722, Dec. 1, 1994; 60 FR 61757, Dec. 1, 1995; 61 FR 60609, Nov. 29, 1996; 64 FR 18981, Apr. 16, 1999; 64 FR 58963, Nov. 1, 1999; 65 FR 65650, Nov. 1, 2000; 66 FR 34764, June 29, 2001; 67 FR 67080, Nov. 1, 2002; 68 FR 75429, Dec. 31, 2003; 71 FR 45709, Aug. 9, 2006; 72 FR 62007, 62031, Nov. 1, 2007; 78 FR 65820, Nov. 1, 2013]




