# § 129.111   Electrical wiring interconnection systems (EWIS) maintenance program.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine-powered airplanes with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, that, as a result of original type certification or later increase in capacity, have—


(1) A maximum type-certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more, or


(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7500 pounds or more.


(b) After March 10, 2011, no foreign person or foreign air carrier may operate a U.S.-registered airplane identified in paragraph (a) of this section unless the maintenance program for that airplane includes inspections and procedures for EWIS.


(c) The proposed EWIS maintenance program changes must be based on EWIS Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) that have been developed in accordance with the provisions of Appendix H of part 25 of this chapter applicable to each affected airplane (including those ICA developed for supplemental type certificates installed on each airplane) and that have been approved by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office.


(1) For airplanes subject to § 26.11 of this chapter, the EWIS ICA must comply with paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b).


(2) For airplanes subject to § 25.1729 of this chapter, the EWIS ICA must comply with paragraph H25.4 and all of paragraph H25.5.


(d) After March 10, 2011, before returning a U.S.-registered airplane to service after any alterations for which EWIS ICA are developed, the foreign person or foreign air carrier must include in the maintenance program for that airplane inspections and procedures for EWIS based on those ICA.


(e) The EWIS maintenance program changes identified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and any later EWIS revisions must be submitted to the Principal Inspector or Flight Standards office responsible for review and approval.


(f) This section does not apply to the following airplane models:


(1) Lockheed L-188


(2) Bombardier CL-44


(3) Mitsubishi YS-11


(4) British Aerospace BAC 1-11


(5) Concorde


(6) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C


(7) VFW-Vereinigte Flugtechnische Werk VFW-614


(8) Illyushin Aviation IL 96T


(9) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305


(10) Handley Page Herald Type 300


(11) Avions Marcel Dassault—Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C


(12) Airbus Caravelle


(13) Lockheed L-300



---

[N] [Amdt. 129-43, 72 FR 63413, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 129-53, 83 FR 9174, Mar. 5, 2018]




