# § 63.2396   What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?

(a) *Compliance with other regulations for storage tanks.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, you are in compliance with the provisions of this subpart for any storage tank that is assigned to the OLD affected source and that is both controlled with a floating roof and is in compliance with the provisions of either 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, except that records shall be kept for 5 years rather than 2 years for storage tanks that are assigned to the OLD affected source.


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, you are in compliance with the provisions of this subpart for any storage tank with a fixed roof that is assigned to the OLD affected source and that is both controlled with a closed vent system and control device and is in compliance with either 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, except that you must comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in this subpart.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, as an alternative to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, if a storage tank assigned to the OLD affected source is subject to control under 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, you may elect to comply only with the requirements of this subpart for storage tanks meeting the applicability criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart.


(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the applicability criteria for control specified in Table 2 to this subpart for storage tanks at an existing affected source no longer apply as specified in § 63.2346(a)(5). Instead, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), as an alternative to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, if a storage tank assigned to an existing OLD affected source is subject to control under 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, you may elect to comply only with the requirements of this subpart for storage tanks at an existing affected source meeting the applicability criteria for control in Table 2b to this subpart.


(b) *Compliance with other regulations for transfer racks.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if you have a transfer rack that is subject to 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, and that transfer rack is in OLD operation, you must meet all of the requirements of this subpart for that transfer rack when the transfer rack is in OLD operation during the loading of organic liquids.


(c) *Compliance with other regulations for equipment leak components.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if you have pumps, valves, or sampling connections that are subject to a 40 CFR part 60 subpart, and those pumps, valves, and sampling connections are in OLD operation and in organic liquids service, as defined in this subpart, you must comply with the provisions of each subpart for those equipment leak components.


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if you have pumps, valves, or sampling connections subject to subpart GGG of this part, and those pumps, valves, and sampling connections are in OLD operation and in organic liquids service, as defined in this subpart, you may elect to comply with the provisions of this subpart for all such equipment leak components. You must identify in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.2382(b) the provisions with which you will comply.


(d) *Overlap of subpart EEEE with other regulations for flares for the OLD source category.* (1) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), flares that are subject to § 60.18 of this chapter or § 63.11 and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the requirements in Tables 2 or 2b to of this subpart are required to comply only with § 63.2380. At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), flares that are subject to § 60.18 or § 63.11 and elect to comply with § 63.2380 are required to comply only with § 63.2380.


(2) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), flares that are subject to § 63.987 and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the requirements in Tables 2 or 2b to this subpart are required to comply only with § 63.2380. At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), flares that are subject to §§ 63.987 and elect to comply with § 63.2380 are required to comply only with § 63.2380.


(3) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), flares that are subject to the requirements of subpart CC of this part and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the requirements in Tables 2 or 2b to this subpart are required to comply only with the flare requirements in subpart CC of this part.


(e) *Overlap with other regulations for monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting*—(1) *Control devices.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if any control device subject to this subpart is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of another 40 CFR part 63 subpart, the owner or operator must be in compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart EEEE. If complying with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of the other subpart satisfies the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator may elect to continue to comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of the other subpart. In such instances, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator must identify the other subpart being complied with in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.2382(b).


(2) Equipment leak components. After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if you are applying the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of another subpart of this part to the valves, pumps, and sampling connection systems associated with a transfer rack subject to this subpart that only unloads organic liquids directly to or via pipeline to a non-tank process unit component or to a storage tank subject to the other subpart of this part, the owner or operator must be in compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart EEEE. If complying with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the other subpart satisfies the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator may elect to continue to comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the other subpart. In such instances, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator must identify the other subpart being complied with in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.2382(d).



---

[N] [69 FR 5063, Feb. 3, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 42911, July 28, 2006; 85 FR 40772, July 7, 2020]




