# ยง 91.20-15   Scope of inspection.

(a) The initial inspection, which may consist of a series of inspections during the construction of a vessel, shall include a complete inspection of the structure, including the outside of the vessel's bottom, the machinery, unfired pressure vessels, equipment and the inside and outside of the boilers. The inspection shall be such as to insure that the arrangements, material, and scantlings of the structure, boilers, and other pressure vessels and their appurtenances, piping, main and auxiliary machinery, electrical installations, lifesaving appliances, fire-detecting and extinguishing equipment, pilot boarding equipment, pollution prevention equipment, and other equipment fully comply with the applicable regulations for such vessel and are in accordance with approved plans, and determine that the vessel is in possession of a valid certificate issued by the Federal Communications Commission, if any. The inspection shall be such as to ensure that the workmanship of all parts of the vessel and its equipment is in all respects satisfactory and that the vessel is provided with lights, means of making sound signals, and distress signals as required by applicable statutes and regulations.


(b) When equipment is installed which is not required by applicable regulations in this subchapter, that equipment shall be inspected and tested as required for such equipment by applicable regulations in subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter. For example, fire-detecting systems shall be inspected and tested as required by subpart 71.20 of subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter. 



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16974, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGFR 68-32, 33 FR 5718, Apr. 12, 1968; CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18901, Dec. 18, 1968; CGD 71-161R, 37 FR 28262, Dec. 21, 1972; CGD 82-036, 48 FR 654, Jan. 6, 1983; CGD 79-032, 49 FR 25455, June 21, 1984; CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48051, Sept. 18, 1995]




