# § 99.51   What are the reporting requirements for the exemption for wells that were permanently shut-in and plugged?

(a) For a WEC applicable facility meeting the applicability provisions of § 99.50, you may elect to report information regarding an exemption for wells that were permanently shut-in and plugged. The exemption information to be reported is described in paragraph (b) of this section. The exemption information shall be submitted as described § 99.7.


(b) Report the following information for each well meeting the applicability provisions of § 99.50 that was permanently shut-in and plugged in the reporting year.


(1) Well ID number as reported in part 98, subpart W of this chapter. If no well ID number is reported for the well to part 98, subpart W, report the well ID number as defined in this part.


(2) Date the well was permanently shut-in and plugged, which for the purposes of this exemption, is the date when welding or cementing of a metal plate or cap onto the casing end was completed.


(3) The statutory citation for each applicable State, local, and Federal regulation stipulating requirements that were applicable to the closure of the permanently shut-in and plugged well.


(4) A certification that the requirements in each of the applicable State, local, and Federal regulations identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section were followed.


(5) If the WEC applicable facility is in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production or underground natural gas storage industry segment and the WEC obligated party calculated methane emissions attributable to the well from wellhead equipment leaks using the methods in § 99.52(b)(5) of this section, you must indicate the method used to calculate equipment leak emissions attributable to the well (*i.e.,* § 99.52(b)(5)(i), (ii), or (iii)). For a WEC applicable facility in the underground natural gas storage industry segment, you must also report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable. For a WEC applicable facility in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, you must also report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable. All WEC applicable facilities must report the information specified in paragraph (b)(5)(v).


(i) If the method in § 99.52(b)(5)(i) is used to calculate equipment leak emissions attributable to the well, you must report the following information for each leak: the leak detection survey method used, the component type as reported in § 98.236(q) of this chapter, the volumetric flow rate of the natural gas leak in standard cubic feet per hour and the duration of the measured leak as determined in accordance § 99.52(b)(5)(i), in hours.


(ii) If the method in § 99.52(b)(5)(ii) is used to calculate equipment leak emissions attributable to the well, you must report the following information for each component identified as leaking: the leak detection survey method used, the component type as specified in § 98.233(q)(2)(iii) or (vii) of this chapter, as applicable, and the time the surveyed component is assumed to be leaking and operational as determined in accordance § 99.52(b)(5)(ii), in hours.


(iii) If the method in § 99.52(b)(5)(iii) is used to calculate equipment leak emissions attributable to the well, you must report the counts of each component type listed in § 98.233(r)(3) of this chapter that are associated with the well, as applicable.


(iv) Indicate whether you used the default concentration of CH_4_ (0.975) or a facility-specific CH_4_ concentration in the total hydrocarbon of the feed natural gas. If you used the facility-specific CH_4_ concentration in the total hydrocarbon of the feed natural gas, report the value.


(v) The quantity of methane emissions attributable to the well from wellhead equipment leaks as calculated in accordance with § 99.52(b)(5)(i), (b)(5)(ii), or (b)(5)(iii), as applicable, for the reporting year, in metric tons CH_4_.


(6) If the WEC applicable facility is in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production and calculated methane emissions attributable to the well from associated gas flaring and completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring using equation E-6 of this section, you must report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The volume of gas sent to the flare from the plugged well, in thousand scf.


(ii) The quantity of methane emissions attributable to the well from associated gas flaring and from completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring as calculated in accordance with § 99.52(b)(6), as applicable, in metric tons CH_4_.


(7) The emissions attributable to the well calculated using equation E-1, E-2, E-3, or E-4 in § 99.52(b), as applicable, in metric tons CH_4_.


(c) The total quantity of methane emissions attributable to all wells that were permanently shut-in and plugged at a WEC applicable facility meeting the applicability provisions of § 99.50 during the reporting year, calculated using equation E-7 in § 99.52(c), in metric tons CH_4_.






