# § 26.60   Definitions.

(a) The following terms and definitions shall apply to this subpart only:


(1) *Designating Authority* means a body with power to designate, monitor, suspend, remove suspension of, or withdraw conformity assessment bodies as specified under this part.


(2) *Designation* means the identification by a designating authority of a conformity assessment body to perform conformity assessment procedures under this part.


(3) *Regulatory Authority* means a government agency or entity that exercises a legal right to control the use or sale of products within a party's jurisdiction and may take enforcement action to ensure that products marketed within its jurisdiction comply with legal requirements.


(b) Other terms concerning conformity assessment used in this part shall have the meaning given elsewhere in this part or in the definitions contained in “Guide 2: Standardization and Related Activities—General Vocabulary of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)” (ISO/IEC Guide 2) (1996 edition), which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the International Organization for Standardization, 1, rue de Varembé, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Genève 20, Switzerland, or on the Internet at *http://www.iso.ch* or may be examined at the Food and Drug Administration's Medical Library, 5600 Fishers Lane, rm. 11B-40, Rockville, MD 20857, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* In the event of an inconsistency between the ISO/IEC Guide 2 and definitions in this part, the definitions in this part shall prevail.




