# ยง 141.63   Maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for microbiological contaminants.

(a) Until March 31, 2016, the total coliform MCL is based on the presence or absence of total coliforms in a sample, rather than coliform density.


(1) For a system that collects at least 40 samples per month, if no more than 5.0 percent of the samples collected during a month are total coliform-positive, the system is in compliance with the MCL for total coliforms.


(2) For a system that collects fewer than 40 samples per month, if no more than one sample collected during a month is total coliform-positive, the system is in compliance with the MCL for total coliforms.


(b) Until March 31, 2016, any fecal coliform-positive repeat sample or *E. coli*-positive repeat sample, or any total coliform-positive repeat sample following a fecal coliform-positive or *E. coli*-positive routine sample, constitutes a violation of the MCL for total coliforms. For purposes of the public notification requirements in subpart Q of this part, this is a violation that may pose an acute risk to health.


(c) Beginning April 1, 2016, a system is in compliance with the MCL for *E. coli* for samples taken under the provisions of subpart Y of this part unless any of the conditions identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section occur. For purposes of the public notification requirements in subpart Q of this part, violation of the MCL may pose an acute risk to health.


(1) The system has an *E. coli*-positive repeat sample following a total coliform-positive routine sample.


(2) The system has a total coliform-positive repeat sample following an *E. coli*-positive routine sample.


(3) The system fails to take all required repeat samples following an *E. coli*-positive routine sample.


(4) The system fails to test for *E. coli* when any repeat sample tests positive for total coliform.


(d) Until March 31, 2016, a public water system must determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for each month in which it is required to monitor for total coliforms. Beginning April 1, 2016, a public water system must determine compliance with the MCL for *E. coli* in paragraph (c) of this section for each month in which it is required to monitor for total coliforms.


(e) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1412 of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant level for total coliforms in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant level for *E. coli* in paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) Protection of wells from fecal contamination by appropriate placement and construction;


(2) Maintenance of a disinfectant residual throughout the distribution system;


(3) Proper maintenance of the distribution system including appropriate pipe replacement and repair procedures, main flushing programs, proper operation and maintenance of storage tanks and reservoirs, cross connection control, and continual maintenance of positive water pressure in all parts of the distribution system;


(4) Filtration and/or disinfection of surface water, as described in subparts H, P, T, and W of this part, or disinfection of ground water, as described in subpart S of this part, using strong oxidants such as chlorine, chlorine dioxide, or ozone; and


(5) For systems using ground water, compliance with the requirements of an EPA-approved State Wellhead Protection Program developed and implemented under section 1428 of the SDWA.


(f) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1412 of the Act, hereby identifies the technology, treatment techniques, or other means available identified in paragraph (e) of this section as affordable technology, treatment techniques, or other means available to systems serving 10,000 or fewer people for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant level for total coliforms in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant level for *E. coli* in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 10347, Feb. 13, 2013]




