# ยง 983.54   Cap on number of PBV units in each project (income-mixing requirement).

(a) *Project cap.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, a PHA may not select a proposal to provide PBV assistance or enter into an Agreement or HAP contract if the number of assisted units in a project is more than the greater of 25 percent of the number of dwelling units (assisted and unassisted, as adjusted as provided in paragraph (c)(3)) in the project or 25 units.


(b) *Higher project cap.* A PHA may provide PBV assistance to the greater of 25 units or 40 percent of the number of dwelling units (assisted and unassisted, as adjusted as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section) in the project if the project is located in an area where vouchers are difficult to use as defined in ยง 983.3.


(c) *Exceptions to the project cap.* (1) A project is not limited to a single exception category but may include excepted units from any of the exception categories under paragraph (2) and excluded units under paragraph (3) below.


(2) PBV units are not counted toward the project cap in the following cases:


(i) Units exclusively serving elderly families, as defined in 24 CFR 5.403;


(ii) Units exclusively made available to eligible youth described in Section 8(x)(2)(B) of the U.S. Housing Act. If the units exclusively made available to eligible youth use Family Unification Program (FUP) assistance that is normally available for eligible families and youth, the PHA must determine that the limitation of the units to youth is consistent with the local housing needs of both eligible FUP populations (families and youth), maintain documentation to support this determination, and amend its Administrative Plan to include the limitation of these FUP PBV units to eligible youth; or


(iii) Units exclusively made available to households eligible for supportive services available to the residents of the project assisted with PBV assistance. The project must make supportive services available to all PBV-assisted families in the project, but the family may not be required to participate in the services as a condition of living in the excepted unit. Such supportive services need not be provided by the owner or on-site but must be reasonably available to the families receiving PBV assistance in the project and designed to help the families in the project achieve self-sufficiency or live in the community as independently as possible. The supportive services must be made available to the family within a reasonable time as defined by the PHA, but not to exceed 120 calendar days from the family's request. The PHA must include in its Administrative Plan the types of services offered to families that will enable the units to qualify under the exception and the extent to which such services will be provided (*e.g.,* length of time services will be provided to a family, frequency of services, and depth of services), and the reasonable time by which such services must be made available to the family, not to exceed 120 calendar days. A PHA that manages an FSS program may offer FSS to meet the exception. The PHA may also make the supportive services used in connection with the FSS program available to non-FSS PBV families at the project.


(3) Units that are excluded under ยง 983.59 do not count toward the project cap. Such units are removed from the number of dwelling units for purposes of calculating the percentages under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(4)(i) The PBV HAP contract must specify, and the owner must set aside, the number of excepted units made available for occupancy by families who qualify for the exception.


(ii) For a unit to be considered excepted it must be occupied by a family who qualifies for the exception.


(d) *HAP contracts already in effect.* (1) In general, HAP contracts in effect prior to April 18, 2017, when the exception at paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section came into effect and a prior exception for disabled families was removed, or prior to December 27, 2020, when the exception at paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section came into effect, are governed by those HAP contracts' terms concerning the number and type of excepted units in a project. The owner must continue to designate the same number of contract units and assist the same number and type of excepted units as provided under the HAP contract during the remaining term of the HAP contract and any extension.


(2) The owner and the PHA may mutually agree to change the requirements for excepted units under the HAP contract to comply with the excepted unit requirements in subsection (c) of this section. However, any change to the HAP contract may only be made if the change does not jeopardize an assisted family's eligibility for continued assistance at the project.


(e) *PHA determination.* The PHA determines the number of units in the project for which the PHA will provide project-based assistance, including whether and how many units will be excepted, subject to the provisions of this section. See ยง 983.262 for occupancy requirements of excepted units.


(f) *HUD monitoring.* HUD may establish additional monitoring and oversight requirements for PBV projects in which more than 40 percent of the dwelling units are assisted under a PBV HAP contract through a _Federal Register_ Notice, subject to public comment.






