# § 1611.31   Terms defined.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise specifically requires:


(a) The term *act* means the “Flammable Fabrics Act” (approved June 30, 1953, Pub. Law 88, 83d Congress, 1st sess., 15 U.S.C. 1191; 67 Stat. 111), as amended, 68 Stat. 770, August 23, 1954.


(b) The terms *rule, rules, regulations,* and *rules and regulations,* mean the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 5(c) of the act.


(c) The term *United States* means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Territories and Possessions of the United States.


(d) The terms *marketing or handling* means the transactions referred to in section 3 of the Flammable Fabrics Act, as amended in 1967.


(e) The terms *uncovered or exposed part* of an article of wearing apparel as used in section 4(a) of the act, means that part of such article of apparel which might during normal wear be open to flame or other means of ignition.


(f) The term *textile fabric* means any coated or uncoated material subject to the act, except film and fabrics having a nitro-cellulose fiber, finish, or coating, which is woven, knitted, felted or otherwise produced from any natural or man-made fiber, or substitute therefore, or combination thereof, of two inches or more in width, and which is in a form or condition ready for use in wearing apparel.


(g) The term *plain surface textile fabric* means any textile fabric which does not have an intentionally raised fiber or yarn surface such as a pile, nap, or tuft, but shall include those fabrics having fancy woven, knitted or flock printed surfaces.


(h) The term *raised surface textile fabric* means any textile fabric which has an intentionally raised fiber or yarn surface such as a pile, nap, or tufting.


(i) The term *film* means any nonrigid, unsupported plastic, rubber or other synthetic or natural film or sheeting, subject to the act, or any combination thereof, including transparent, translucent, and opaque material, whether plain, embossed, molded, or otherwise surface treated, which is in a form or condition ready for use in wearing apparel, and shall include film or sheeting exceeding 10 mils in thickness.


(j) The term *test* means the application of the relevant test method prescribed in the procedures provided under section 4(a) of the act.


(k) The term *initial test* means tests made under the procedures prescribed in section 4(a) of the act of specimens taken from two separate pieces of a textile fabric, or textile fabric with a nitro-cellulose fiber, finish or coating, having the same weight, construction and finish type, or from two separate runs of film having the same formula, finish, color, and thickness.


(l) The term *finish type* means a particular finish, but does not include such variables as changes in color, pattern, print, or design, or minor variations in the amount or type of ingredients in the finish formulation. Examples of finish types would be starch finishes, resin finishes or parchmentized finishes.


(m) The definition of terms contained in section 2 of the act shall be applicable also to such terms when used in rules promulgated under the act.




