# § 48.6421-1   Credits or payments to ultimate purchaser of gasoline used for certain nonhighway purposes.

(a) *In general.* (1) If gasoline is used in a qualified business use or as fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation), a credit (under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section) or a payment (under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section) in respect of the gasoline shall be allowed or made to the ultimate purchaser of the gasoline. For gasoline used in a qualified business use prior to April 1, 1983, the credit or payment under this section shall be an amount equal to 1 cent for each gallon of gasoline so used on which the tax was paid at the rate of 3 cents a gallon, and 2 cents for each gallon of gasoline so used on which the tax was paid at the rate of 4 cents a gallon. For gasoline used in an off-highway business use after March 31, 1983, the credit or payment under this section shall be an amount equal to the amount determined by multiplying the number of gallons so used by the rate at which tax was imposed on such gasoline under section 4081. For gasoline used as a fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation) the credit or payment under this section shall be an amount equal to the amount determined by multiplying the number of gallons so used by the rate at which tax was imposed on the gasoline under section 4081. No interest shall be paid on any payment allowed under paragraph (c) of this section. However, interest may be paid on any overpayment (as defined by section 6401) arising from a credit allowed under paragraph (b) of this section. See section 34(a), relating to credit for certain uses of gasoline and special fuels (and lubricating oil used prior to January 7, 1983). See § 48.6421-3 for the time within which a claim for credit or payment must be made under this section. See § 48.6421-4 for the meaning of the terms “gasoline,” “qualified business use,” “noncommercial aviation,” and “taxable year.”


(2) For purposes of determining the allowable credit or payment in respect of gasoline used in a qualified business use or as fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation), gasoline on hand shall be considered used in the order in which it was purchased. Thus, if the ultimate purchaser has on hand gasoline acquired in two purchases made at different times and subject to different rates of tax, in determining credit or payment for the gasoline used in a qualified business use or as fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation), it will be assumed that the gasoline first purchased was the first gasoline used, and the rate applicable to that purchase will apply in determining the credit or payment, until all that gasoline is accounted for.


(b) *Allowance of income tax credit in lieu of payment.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, repayment under this section of the tax paid under section 4081 on gasoline used in a qualified business use or as a fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation) by a person subject to income tax may be obtained only by claiming a credit for the amount of this tax against the tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code. The amount of the credit shall be an amount equal to the payment which would be made under section 6421 with respect to gasoline used during the taxable year in a qualified business use or as a fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation) if section 6421(i) and paragraph (c) of this section did not apply. See section 34(a)(2).


(c) *Allowance of payment.* Payments in respect of gasoline upon which tax was paid under section 4081 that is used in a qualified business use or as a fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation) shall be made only to—


(1) The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an agency or instrumentality of one or more State political subdivisions of a State, or the District of Columbia,


(2) An organization which is exempt from tax under section 501(a) and is not required to make a return of the income tax imposed under subtitle A for its taxable year, or


(3) A person described in section 6421(c)(2) to whom $1,000 or more is payable (without regard to paragraph (b) of this section) under this section with respect to gasoline used during any of the first three quarters of the person's taxable year.


(d) *Dual use of gasoline.* (1) No credit or payment may be claimed in respect of gasoline used in a highway vehicle used in a trade or business or for the production of income solely by reason of the fact that the propulsion motor in the vehicle is also used for a purpose other than the propulsion of the vehicle. Thus, if the propulsion motor of a highway vehicle (used in a trade or business or for the production of income) also operates special equipment, such as a mixing unit on a concrete mixer truck or a pump for discharging fuel from a tank truck, by means of a power takeoff or power transfer, no credit or payment may be claimed in respect of the gasoline used to operate the special equipment, even though the special equipment is mounted on the highway vehicle.


(2) If a highway vehicle is equipped with a separate motor to operate the special equipment used in a trade or business or for the production of income, such as a refrigeration unit, pump, generator, or mixing unit, credit or payment may be claimed in respect of the gasoline used in the separate motor.


(3) If gasoline used in a separate motor is drawn from the same tank as the one which supplies gasoline for the propulsion of the highway vehicle, the determination as to the quantity of gasoline used in the separate motor operating the special equipment must be based on operating experience and supported by records.


(4) Devices to measure the number of miles the highway vehicle has traveled, such as hubometers, may be used in making a preliminary determination of the number of gallons of gasoline used to propel the vehicle. In order to make a final determination of the number of gallons of gasoline used to propel the vehicle, there must be added to this preliminary determination the number of gallons of gasoline consumed while idling or warming up the motor preparatory to propelling the vehicle.


(e) *Gasoline lost or destroyed.* Gasoline lost or destroyed through spillage, fire, or other casualty is not considered to have been “used” in a qualified business use or as fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation) and, accordingly, credit or payment in respect of the gasoline may not be claimed.


(f) *Supporting evidence required.* Each claim under this section for credit or payment must include a statement showing—


(1) The total number of gallons of gasoline purchased and used during the period covered by the claim in a qualified business use multiplied by the rate of payment allowable in respect of the gasoline. (For the rate of payment allowable, see paragraph (a)(1) of this section.)


(2) The total number of gallons of gasoline purchased and used during the period covered by the claim for use as fuel in an aircraft (other than aircraft in noncommercial aviation) multiplied by the rate of payment allowable in respect of the gasoline.


(3) The purpose or purposes for which the gasoline was used, determined by reference to general categories, and the amount used for each purpose; and


(4) If a claim on Form 843 is being filed, the internal revenue district or service center with which the claimant last filed an income tax return (if any).



---

[N] [T.D. 8043, 50 FR 32039, Aug. 8, 1985]




