# ยง 263.36   Evidence.

(a) *Admissibility.* (1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable law.


(2) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart.


(3) Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if such evidence is relevant, material, reliable, and not unduly repetitive.


(b) *Official notice.* (1) Official notice may be taken of any material fact which may be judicially noticed by a United States district court and any material information in the official public records of any Federal or State government agency.


(2) All matters officially noticed by the ALJ or the Board must appear on the record.


(3) If official notice is requested or taken of any material fact, the parties, upon timely request, must be afforded an opportunity to object.


(c) *Documents.* (1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.


(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection, or visitation, prepared by an appropriate Federal financial institutions regulatory agency or by a State regulatory agency, is admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.


(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines, or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the ALJ's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.


(d) *Objections.* (1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.


(2) When an objection to a question or line of questioning propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining counsel may make a specific proffer on the record of what the examining counsel expected to prove by the expected testimony of the witness either by representation of counsel or by direct questioning of the witness.


(3) The ALJ will retain rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, for the record, and transmit such exhibits to the Board.


(4) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.


(e) *Stipulations.* The parties may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.


(f) *Depositions of unavailable witnesses.* (1) If a witness is unavailable to testify at a hearing, and that witness has testified in a deposition to which all parties in a proceeding had notice and an opportunity to participate, a party may offer as evidence all or any part of the transcript of the deposition, including deposition exhibits, if any.


(2) Such deposition transcript is admissible to the same extent that testimony would have been admissible had that person testified at the hearing, provided that if a witness refused to answer proper questions during the depositions, the ALJ may, on that basis, limit the admissibility of the deposition in any manner that justice requires.


(3) Only those portions of a deposition received in evidence at the hearing constitute a part of the record.






