# § 25.62   Data for notice.

(a) *Required information.* The brewer shall prepare the notice on Form 5130.10 and shall include the following information:


(1) Serial number.


(2) Purpose for which filed.


(3) Name and principal business address of the brewer and the location of the brewery if different from the business address.


(4) Statement of the type of business organization and of the persons interested in the business, supported by the information listed in § 25.66.


(5) Description of brewery, as specified in § 25.68.


(6) A list of trade names which the brewer intends to use in doing business or in packaging beer.


(7) [Reserved] 


(8) The name and address of the owner of the land or buildings comprising the brewery, and of any mortgagee or other encumbrancer of the land or buildings comprising the brewery.


(9) The 24-hour cycle of operations at the brewery which is to be the brewer's business day.


(10) The process by which the brewer intends to render beer unfit for beverage use when beer is to be removed for use in manufacturing under §§ 25.191-25.192.


(11) Statement showing ownership or controlling interests in other breweries which will establish eligibility for the transfer of beer without payment of tax between breweries of the same ownership, as authorized in § 25.181.


(12) The date of the notice and the name and signature of the brewer or person authorized to sign on behalf of the brewer.


(13) A statement whether the brewer is required to furnish a bond under § 25.91.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* If any of the information required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section is on file with a TTB office in connection with the qualification of any other premises operated by the brewer, that information, if accurate and complete, may be incorporated into the brewer's notice by reference.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. TTB-21, 70 FR 237, Jan. 3, 2005; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5478, Feb. 1, 2011; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1127, Jan. 4, 2017]




