# § 1104.1   Address, identification, and electronic filing option.

(a) Except as provided in § 1115.7, pleadings should be addressed to the “Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC 20423-0001,” and should designate the docket number and title of the proceeding, if known.


(b) The address of the person filing the pleading should be included on the first page of the pleading.


(c) All envelopes in which a pleading is being submitted should be marked in the lower left hand corner with the docket number, if known, (not the full title) and the pleading type.


(d) All multi-volume pleadings must be sequentially numbered on the cover of each volume to indicate the volume number of the pleading and the total number of volumes filed (e.g., the first volume in a 4-volume set should be labeled “volume 1 of 4,” the second volume “volume 2 of 4” and so forth).


(e) Unless otherwise directed by the Board, persons filing pleadings and documents with the Board have the option of electronically filing (e-filing) pleadings and documents instead of filing paper copies. Details regarding file size limitations, permissible formats, procedures to be followed, acceptable signature formats, and other pertinent information are available on the Board's website, *www.stb.gov.* If the e-filing option is chosen, then the applicable requirements will be those specified on the Board's website, and any requirements of this part that specifically apply to filing of paper copies will not apply to the e-filed pleadings and documents (these requirements include, but are not limited to, stapling or binding specifications, signature “in ink,” etc.). Persons are not required to e-file and may continue to use the Board's processes for filing paper copies.



---

[N] [47 FR 49554, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 34475, July 29, 1983; 53 FR 20854, June 7, 1988; 61 FR 52711, Oct. 8, 1996; 69 FR 18498, Apr. 8, 2004; 74 FR 52906, Oct. 15, 2009; 83 FR 15078, Apr. 9, 2018; 84 FR 12943, Apr. 3, 2019]




