# § 165.1711   Security Zones; Waters of the Seventeenth Coast Guard District

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Alaska Marine Highway System vessel (“AMHS vessel”)* means any vessel owned or operated by the Alaska Marine Highway System, including, but not limited to: M/V AURORA, M/V CHENEGA, M/V COLUMBIA, M/V FAIRWEATHER, M/V KENNICOTT, M/V LECONTE, M/V LITUYA, M/V MALASPINA, M/V MATANUSKA, M/V TAKU, and the M/V TUSTUMENA.


*Designated on Scene Representative* means any U.S. Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the District Commander or local Captain of the Port (COTP), as defined in 33 CFR part 3, subpart 3.85, to act on his or her behalf, or other Federal, State or local law enforcement Officers designated by the COTP.


*Escorted HCPV or AMHS vessel* means a HCPV or AMHS vessel that is accompanied by one or more Coast Guard assets or Federal, State or local law enforcement agency assets as listed below:


(1) Coast Guard surface or air asset displaying the Coast Guard insignia.


(2) State, Federal or local law enforcement assets displaying the applicable agency markings and or equipment associated with the agency.


*Federal Law Enforcement Officer* means any Federal government law enforcement officer who has authority to enforce federal criminal laws.


*High Capacity Passenger Vessel (“HCPV”)* means a passenger vessel greater than 100 feet in length that is authorized to carry more than 500 passengers for hire.


*State law enforcement Officer* means any State or local government law enforcement officer who has authority to enforce State or local criminal laws.


(b) *Location.* The following areas are security zones: all waters within 100 yards around escorted High Capacity Passenger Vessels or escorted Alaska Marine Highway System vessels in the navigable waters of the Seventeenth Coast Guard District as defined in 33 CFR 3.85-1, from surface to bottom.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) No vessel may approach within 100 yards of an escorted HCPV or escorted AMHS vessel during their transits within the navigable waters of the Seventeenth Coast Guard District.


(2) Moored or anchored vessels that are overtaken by this moving zone must remain stationary at their location until the escorted vessel maneuvers at least 100 yards away.


(3) The local Captain of the Port may notify the maritime and general public by marine information broadcast of the periods during which individual security zones have been activated by providing notice in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7.


(4) Persons desiring to transit within 100 yards of a moving, escorted HCPV or AMHS vessel in the Seventeenth Coast Guard District must contact the designated on scene representative on VHF channel 16 (156.800 MHz) or VHF channel 13 (156.650 MHz) to receive permission.


(5) If permission is granted to transit within 100 yards of an escorted HCPV or AMHS vessel, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the designated on scene representative.


(6) All commercial fishing vessels as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(11a) while actively engaged in fishing are exempted from the provisions of this section.



---

[N] [CGD17-05-002, 71 FR 19123, Apr. 13, 2006]




