# § 36.12   Temporary access.

(a) For the purposes of this section, the term:


(1) *Area* also includes public lands administered by the BLM designated as wilderness study areas or managed to maintain the wilderness character or potential thereof, and the National Petroleum Reserve—Alaska.


(2) *Temporary access* means limited, short-term (i.e., up to one year from issuance of the permit) access which does not require permanent facilities for access to State or private lands.


(b) This section is applicable to State and private landowners who desire temporary access across an area for the purposes of survey, geophysical, exploratory and other temporary uses of such non-federal lands, and where such temporary access is not affirmatively provided for in §§ 36.10 and 36.11. State and private landowners meeting the criteria of § 36.10(b) are directed to use the procedures of § 36.10 to obtain temporary access.


(c) A landowner requiring temporary access across an area for survey, geophysical, exploratory or similar temporary activities shall apply to the appropriate Federal agency for an access permit by providing the relevant information requested in the SF 299.


(d) The appropriate Federal agency shall grant the desired temporary access whenever it is determined, after compliance with the requirements of NEPA, that such access will not result in permanent harm to the area's resources. The area manager shall include in any permit granted such stipulations and conditions on temporary access as are necessary to ensure that the access granted would not be inconsistent with the purposes for which the area was established and to ensure that no permanent harm will result to the area's resources and section 810 of ANILCA is complied with.




