# ยง 63.5779   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in ยง 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Add-on control* means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) or an authorized representative (for example, a State delegated the authority to carry out the provisions of this subpart).


*Aluminum recreational boat* means any marine or freshwater recreational boat that has a hull or deck constructed primarily of aluminum. A recreational boat is a vessel which by design and construction is intended by the manufacturer to be operated primarily for pleasure, or to be leased, rented or chartered to another for the latter's pleasure (rather than for commercial or military purposes); and whose major structural components are fabricated and assembled in an indoor, production-line manufacturing plant or similar land-side operation and not in a dry dock, graving dock, or marine railway on the navigable waters of the United States.


*Aluminum recreational boat surface coating operation* means the application of primers or top coats to aluminum recreational boats. It also includes the application of clear coats over top coats. Aluminum recreational boat surface coating operations do not include the application of wood coatings or antifoulant coatings to aluminum recreational boats.


*Aluminum coating spray gun cleaning* means the process of flushing or removing paints or coatings from the interior or exterior of a spray gun used to apply aluminum primers, clear coats, or top coats to aluminum recreational boats.


*Aluminum wipedown solvents* means solvents used to remove oil, grease, welding smoke, or other contaminants from the aluminum surfaces of a boat before priming or painting. Aluminum wipedown solvents contain no coating solids; aluminum surface preparation materials that contain coating solids are considered coatings for the purpose of this subpart and are not wipedown solvents.


*Antifoulant coating* means any coating that is applied to the underwater portion of a boat specifically to prevent or reduce the attachment of biological organisms and that is registered with EPA as a pesticide under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. section 136, *et seq.*). For the purpose of this subpart, primers used with antifoulant coatings to prepare the surface to accept the antifoulant coating are considered antifoulant coatings.


*Assembly adhesive* means any chemical material used in the joining of one fiberglass, metal, foam, or wood parts to another to form a temporary or permanently bonded assembly. Assembly adhesives include, but are not limited to, methacrylate adhesives and putties made from polyester or vinylester resin mixed with inert fillers or fibers.


*Atomized resin application* means a resin application technology in which the resin leaves the application equipment and breaks into droplets or an aerosol as it travels from the application equipment to the surface of the part. Atomized resin application includes, but is not limited to, resin spray guns and resin chopper spray guns.


*Boat* means any type of vessel, other than a seaplane, that can be used for transportation on the water.


*Boat manufacturing facility* means a facility that manufactures the hulls or decks of boats from fiberglass or aluminum or assembles boats from premanufactured hulls and decks, or builds molds to make fiberglass hulls or decks. A facility that manufactures only parts of boats (such as hatches, seats, or lockers) or boat trailers, but no boat hulls or decks or molds for fiberglass boat hulls or decks, is not considered a boat manufacturing facility for the purpose of this subpart.


*Carpet and fabric adhesive* means any chemical material that permanently attaches carpet, fabric, or upholstery to any surface of a boat.


*Clear gel coat* means gel coats that are clear or translucent so that underlying colors are visible. Clear gel coats are used to manufacture parts for sale. Clear gel coats do not include tooling gel coats used to build or repair molds.


*Closed molding* means any molding process in which pressure is used to distribute the resin through the reinforcing fabric placed between two mold surfaces to either saturate the fabric or fill the mold cavity. The pressure may be clamping pressure, fluid pressure, atmospheric pressure, or vacuum pressure used either alone or in combination. The mold surfaces may be rigid or flexible. Closed molding includes, but is not limited to, compression molding with sheet molding compound, infusion molding, resin injection molding (RIM), vacuum-assisted resin transfer molding (VARTM), resin transfer molding (RTM), and vacuum-assisted compression molding. Processes in which a closed mold is used only to compact saturated fabric or remove air or excess resin from the fabric (such as in vacuum bagging), are not considered closed molding. Open molding steps, such as application of a gel coat or skin coat layer by conventional open molding prior to a closed molding process, are not closed molding.


*Cured resin and gel coat* means resin or gel coat that has been polymerized and changed from a liquid to a solid.


*Deviation after* September 16, 2020, means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Deviation before* September 17, 2020 means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.


*Enclosure* means a structure, such as a spray booth, that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device.


*Fiberglass boat* means a vessel in which either the hull or deck is built from a composite material consisting of a thermosetting resin matrix reinforced with fibers of glass, carbon, aramid, or other material.


*Fiberglass hull and deck coatings* means coatings applied to the exterior or interior surface of fiberglass boat hulls and decks on the completed boat. Polyester and vinylester resins and gel coats used in building fiberglass parts are not fiberglass hull and deck coatings for the purpose of this subpart.


*Filled resin* means a resin to which an inert material has been added to change viscosity, density, shrinkage, or other physical properties.


*Gel coat* means a thermosetting resin surface coating containing styrene (Chemical Abstract Service or CAS No. 100-42-5) or methyl methacrylate (CAS No. 80-62-6), either pigmented or clear, that provides a cosmetic enhancement or improves resistance to degradation from exposure to the elements. Gel coat layers do not contain any reinforcing fibers and gel coats are applied directly to mold surfaces or to a finished laminate.


*Hazardous air pollutant or HAP* means any air pollutant listed in, or pursuant to section 112(b) of the Clean Air Act.


*Hazardous air pollutant content or HAP content* means the amount of HAP contained in a regulated material at the time it is applied to the part being manufactured. If no HAP is added to a material as a thinner or diluent, then the HAP content is the same as the HAP content of the material as purchased from the supplier. For resin and gel coat, HAP content does not include any HAP contained in the catalyst added to the resin or gel coat during application to initiate curing.


*Hazardous air pollutant data sheet (HDS)* means documentation furnished by a material supplier or an outside laboratory to provide the organic HAP content of the material by weight, measured using an EPA Method, manufacturer's formulation data, or an equivalent method. For aluminum coatings, the HDS also documents the solids content by volume, determined from the manufacturer's formulation data. The purpose of the HDS is to help the affected source in showing compliance with the organic HAP content limits contained in this subpart. The HDS must state the maximum total organic HAP concentration, by weight, of the material. It must include any organic HAP concentrations equal to or greater than 0.1 percent by weight for individual organic HAP that are carcinogens, as defined by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Hazard Communication Standard (29 CFR part 1910), and 1.0 percent by weight for all other individual organic HAP, as formulated. The HDS must also include test conditions if EPA Method 311 is used for determining organic HAP content.


*Maximum achievable control technology (MACT) model point value* means a number calculated for open molding operations that is a surrogate for emissions and is used to determine if your open molding operations are in compliance with the provisions of this subpart. The units for MACT model point values are kilograms of organic HAP per megagram of resin or gel coat applied.


*Manufacturer's certification* means documentation furnished by a material supplier that shows the organic HAP content of a material and includes a HDS.


*Mold* means the cavity or surface into or on which gel coat, resin, and fibers are placed and from which finished fiberglass parts take their form.


*Mold sealing and release agents* means materials applied to a mold to seal, polish, and lubricate the mold to prevent parts from sticking to the mold. Mold sealers, waxes, and glazing and buffing compounds are considered mold sealing and release agents for the purposes of this subpart.


*Mold stripping and cleaning solvents* means materials used to remove mold sealing and release agents from a mold before the mold surface is repaired, polished, or lubricated during normal mold maintenance.


*Month* means a calendar month.


*Neat resin* means a resin to which no filler has been added.


*Nonatomized resin application* means any application technology in which the resin is not broken into droplets or an aerosol as it travels from the application equipment to the surface of the part. Nonatomized resin application technology includes, but is not limited to, flowcoaters, chopper flowcoaters, pressure fed resin rollers, resin impregnators, and hand application (for example, paint brush or paint roller).


*Open molding resin and gel coat operation* means any process in which the reinforcing fibers and resin are placed in the mold and are open to the surrounding air while the reinforcing fibers are saturated with resin. For the purposes of this subpart, open molding includes operations in which a vacuum bag or similar cover is used to compress an uncured laminate to remove air bubbles or excess resin, or to achieve a bond between a core material and a laminate.


*Pigmented gel coat* means opaque gel coats used to manufacture parts for sale. Pigmented gel coats do not include tooling gel coats used to build or repair molds.


*Production resin* means any resin used to manufacture parts for sale. Production resins do not include tooling resins used to build or repair molds, or assembly adhesives as defined in this section.


*Recycled resin and gel coat application equipment cleaning solvent* means cleaning solvents recycled on-site or returned to the supplier or another party to remove resin or gel coat residues so that the solvent can be reused.


*Research and development activities* means:


(1) Activities conducted at a laboratory to analyze air, soil, water, waste, or product samples for contaminants, environmental impact, or quality control;


(2) Activities conducted to test more efficient production processes or methods for preventing or reducing adverse environmental impacts, provided that the activities do not include the production of an intermediate or final product for sale or exchange for commercial profit, except in a *de minimis* manner; and


(3) Activities conducted at a research or laboratory facility that is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, the primary purpose of which is to conduct research and development into new processes and products and that is not engaged in the manufacture of products for sale or exchange for commercial profit, except in a *de minimis* manner.


*Resin* means any thermosetting resin with or without pigment containing styrene (CAS No. 100-42-5) or methyl methacrylate (CAS No. 80-62-6) and used to encapsulate and bind together reinforcement fibers in the construction of fiberglass parts.


*Resin and gel coat application equipment cleaning* means the process of flushing or removing resins and gel coats from the interior or exterior of equipment that is used to apply resin or gel coat in the manufacture of fiberglass parts.


*Resin and gel coat mixing operation* means any operation in which resin or gel coat, including the mixing of putties or polyputties, is combined with additives that include, but are not limited to, fillers, promoters, or catalysts.


*Roll-out* means the process of using rollers, squeegees, or similar tools to compact reinforcing materials saturated with resin to remove trapped air or excess resin.


*Shutdown* after September 16, 2020, means the cessation of operation of the add-on control devices.


*Skin coat* is a layer of resin and fibers applied over the gel coat to protect the gel coat from being deformed by the next laminate layers.


*Startup* after September 17, 2020, means the setting in operation of the add-on control devices.


*Tooling resin* means the resin used to build or repair molds (also known as tools) or prototypes (also known as plugs) from which molds will be made.


*Tooling gel coat* means the gel coat used to build or repair molds (also known as tools) or prototypes (also known as plugs) from which molds will be made.


*Vacuum bagging* means any molding technique in which the reinforcing fabric is saturated with resin and then covered with a flexible sheet that is sealed to the edge of the mold and where a vacuum is applied under the sheet to compress the laminate, remove excess resin, or remove trapped air from the laminate during curing. Vacuum bagging does not include processes that meet the definition of closed molding.


*Vinylester resin* means a thermosetting resin containing esters of acrylic or methacrylic acids and having double-bond and ester linkage sites only at the ends of the resin molecules.


*Volume fraction of coating solids* means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating; liters of coating solids per liter of coating.


*Wood coatings* means coatings applied to wooden parts and surfaces of boats, such as paneling, cabinets, railings, and trim. Wood coatings include, but are not limited to, primers, stains, sealers, varnishes, and enamels. Polyester and vinylester resins or gel coats applied to wooden parts to encapsulate them or bond them to other parts are not wood coatings.



---

[N] [66 FR 44232, Aug. 22, 2001, as amended at 85 FR 15973, Mar. 20, 2020]







