# ยง 134.305   The appeal petition.

(a) *Form.* There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, it must include the following information: 


(1) In a size appeal, a copy of the size determination being appealed;


(2) The solicitation or contract number, and the name, address, and telephone number of the contracting officer; 


(3) A full and specific statement as to why the size determination or NAICS code designation is alleged to be in error, together with argument supporting such allegations; and 


(4) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and signature of the appellant or its attorney. 


(b) *Service of size determination appeals.* The appellant must serve the appeal petition upon each of the following: 


(1) The SBA official who issued the size determination; 


(2) The contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by a size determination; 


(3) The business concern whose size status is at issue; 


(4) All persons who filed protests; and 


(5) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-6873, or e-mail at *OPLService@sba.gov.*

(c) *Service of NAICS appeals.* The appellant must serve:


(1) The contracting officer who made the NAICS code designation; and


(2) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-6873, or e-mail at *OPLService@sba.gov.*

(d) *Certificate of service.* The appellant must attach to the appeal petition a signed certificate of service meeting the requirements of ยง 134.204(d). 


(e) *Dismissal.* An appeal petition which does not contain all of the information required in paragraph (a) of this section may be dismissed, with or without prejudice, by the Judge at his or her own initiative, or upon motion of a respondent. 



---

[N] [61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 57542, Sept. 25, 2000; 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 29208, May 21, 2004; 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]




