# § 685.207   Obligation to repay.

(a) *Obligation of repayment in general.* (1) A borrower is obligated to repay the full amount of a Direct Loan, including the principal balance, fees, any collection costs charged under § 685.202(e), and any interest not subsidized by the Secretary, unless the borrower is relieved of the obligation to repay as provided in this part.


(2) The borrower's repayment of a Direct Loan may also be subject to the deferment provisions in § 685.204, the forbearance provisions in § 685.205, the discharge provisions in § 685.212, and the loan forgiveness provisions in §§ 685.217 and 685.219.


(3) A borrower's first payment on a Direct Loan is due within 60 days of the beginning date of the repayment period as determined in accordance with paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section.


(b) *Direct Subsidized Loan repayment.* (1) During the period in which a borrower is enrolled at an eligible school on at least a half-time basis, the borrower is in an “in-school” period and is not required to make payments on a Direct Subsidized Loan unless—


(i) The loan entered repayment before the in-school period began; and


(ii) The borrower has not been granted a deferment under § 685.204(b).


(2)(i) When a borrower ceases to be enrolled at an eligible school on at least a half-time basis, a six-month grace period begins, unless the grace period has been previously exhausted.


(ii)(A) Any borrower who is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in section 10101 of title 10, United States Code and is called or ordered to active duty for a period of more than 30 days is entitled to have the active duty period excluded from the six-month grace period. The excluded period includes the time necessary for the borrower to resume enrollment at the next available regular enrollment period. Any single excluded period may not exceed 3 years.


(B) Any borrower who is in a grace period when called or ordered to active duty as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section is entitled to a full six-month grace period upon completion of the excluded period.


(iii) During a grace period, the borrower is not required to make any principal payments on a Direct Subsidized Loan.


(3)(i) A borrower is not obligated to pay interest on a Direct Subsidized Loan during periods when the borrower is enrolled at an eligible school on at least a half-time basis unless the borrower is required to make payments on the loan during those periods under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, a borrower is not obligated to pay interest on a Direct Subsidized Loan during grace periods.


(iii) In the case of a Direct Subsidized Loan for which the first disbursement is made on or after July 1, 2012 and before July 1, 2014, a borrower is responsible for the interest that accrues during the grace period.


(4) The repayment period for a Direct Subsidized Loan begins the day after the grace period ends. A borrower is obligated to repay the loan under paragraph (a) of this section during the repayment period.


(c) *Direct Unsubsidized Loan repayment.* (1) During the period in which a borrower is enrolled at an eligible school on at least a half-time basis, the borrower is in an “in-school” period and is not required to make payments of principal on a Direct Unsubsidized Loan unless—


(i) The loan entered repayment before the in-school period began; and


(ii) The borrower has not been granted a deferment under § 685.204.


(2)(i) When a borrower ceases to be enrolled at an eligible school on at least a half-time basis, a six-month grace period begins, unless the grace period has been previously exhausted.


(ii)(A) Any borrower who is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in section 10101 of title 10, United States Code and is called or ordered to active duty for a period of more than 30 days is entitled to have the active duty period excluded from the six-month grace period. The excluded period includes the time necessary for the borrower to resume enrollment at the next available regular enrollment period. Any single excluded period may not exceed 3 years.


(B) Any borrower who is in a grace period when called or ordered to active duty as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section is entitled to a full six-month grace period upon completion of the excluded period.


(iii) During a grace period, the borrower is not required to make any principal payments on a Direct Unsubsidized Loan.


(3) A borrower is responsible for the interest that accrues on a Direct Unsubsidized Loan during in-school and grace periods. Interest begins to accrue on the day the first installment is disbursed. Interest that accrues may be capitalized or paid by the borrower.


(4) The repayment period for a Direct Unsubsidized Loan begins the day after the grace period ends. A borrower is obligated to repay the loan under paragraph (a) of this section during the repayment period.


(d) *Direct PLUS Loan repayment.* The repayment period for a Direct PLUS Loan begins on the day the loan is fully disbursed. Interest begins to accrue on the day the first installment is disbursed. A borrower is obligated to repay the loan under paragraph (a) of this section during the repayment period.


(e) *Direct Consolidation Loan repayment.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, the repayment period for a Direct Consolidation Loan begins and interest begins to accrue on the day the loan is made. The borrower is obligated to repay the loan under paragraph (a) of this section during the repayment period.


(2) In the case of a borrower whose consolidation application was received before July 1, 2006, a borrower who obtains a Direct Subsidized Consolidation Loan during an in-school period will be subject to the repayment provisions in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) In the case of a borrower whose consolidation application was received before July 1, 2006, a borrower who obtains a Direct Unsubsidized Consolidation Loan during an in-school period will be subject to the repayment provisions in paragraph (c) of this section.


(f) *Determining the date on which the grace period begins for a borrower in a correspondence program.* For a borrower of a Direct Subsidized or Direct Unsubsidized Loan who is a correspondence student, the grace period specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section begins on the earliest of— 


(1) The day after the borrower completes the program; 


(2) The day after withdrawal as determined pursuant to 34 CFR 668.22; or 


(3) 60 days following the last day for completing the program as established by the school.



---

[N] [59 FR 61690, Dec. 1, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 58968, Nov. 1, 1999; 68 FR 75430, Dec. 31, 2003; 71 FR 45712, Aug. 9, 2006; 78 FR 65832, Nov. 1, 2013]




