# § 86.1102-87   Definitions.

(a) The definitions in this section apply to this subpart.


(b) As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein have the meaning given them in the Act.


*Compliance level* means the deteriorated pollutant emissions level at the 60th percentile point for a population of heavy-duty engines or heavy-duty vehicles subject to Production Compliance Audit testing pursuant to the requirements of this subpart. A compliance level for a population can only be determined for a pollutant for which an upper limit has been established in this subpart.


*Configuration* means a subdivision, if any, of a heavy-duty engine family for which a separate projected sales figure is listed in the manufacturer's Application for Certification and which can be described on the basis of emission control system, governed speed, injector size, engine calibration, or other parameters which may be designated by the Administrator, or a subclassification of light-duty truck engine family emission control system combination on the basis of engine code, inertia weight class, transmission type and gear ratios, rear axle ratio, or other parameters which may be designated by the Administrator.


*NCP* means a nonconformance penalty as described in section 206(g) of the Clean Air Act and in this subpart.


*PCA* means Production Compliance Audit as described in § 86.1106-87 of this subpart.


*Round* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Subclass* means a classification of heavy-duty engines of heavy-duty vehicles based on such factors as gross vehicle weight rating, fuel usage (gasoline-, diesel-, and methanol-fueled), vehicle usage, engine horsepower or additional criteria that the Administrator shall apply. Subclasses include, but are not limited to:


(i) Light-duty gasoline-fueled Otto cycle trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)


(ii) Light-duty methanol-fueled Otto cycle trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)


(iii) Light-duty petroleum-fueled diesel trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)


(iv) Light-duty methanol-fueled diesel trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)


(v) Light heavy-duty gasoline-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 8,501-14,000 lb. GVW)


(vi) Light heavy-duty methanol-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 8,501-14,000 lb. GVW)


(vii) Heavy heavy-duty gasoline-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 14,001 lb and above GVW)


(viii) Heavy heavy-duty methanol-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 14,001 lb. and above GVW)


(ix) Light heavy-duty petroleum-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(1))


(x) Light heavy-duty methanol-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(1))


(xi) Medium heavy-duty petroleum-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(2))


(xii) Medium heavy-duty methanol-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(2))


(xiii) Heavy heavy-duty petroleum-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(3))


(xiv) Heavy heavy-duty methanol-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(3))


(xv) Petroleum-fueled Urban Bus engines (see § 86.091-2)


(xvi) Methanol-fueled Urban Bus engines (see § 86.091-2).


For NCP purposes, all optionally certified engines and/or vehicles (engines certified in accordance with § 86.087-10(a)(3) and vehicles certified in accordance with § 86.085-1(b)) shall be considered part of, and included in the FRAC calculation of, the subclass for which they are optionally certified.


*Test Sample* means a group of heavy-duty engines or heavy-duty vehicles of the same configuration which have been selected for emission testing.


*Upper limit* means the emission level for a specific pollutant above which a certificate of conformity may not be issued or may be suspended or revoked.



---

[N] [50 FR 35388, Aug. 30, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 46628, Nov. 5, 1990; 79 FR 23703, Apr. 28, 2014]




