# § 558.3   Notification to NIGC of license decisions and retention obligations.

(a) After a tribe has provided a notice of results of the background check to the Commission, a tribe may license a primary management official or key employee.


(b) Within 30 days after the issuance of the license, a tribe shall notify the Commission of its issuance.


(c) A key employee or primary management official who does not have a license after ninety (90) days shall not be permitted to perform the duties, functions, and/or responsibilities of a key employee or primary management official until so licensed.


(d) If a tribe does not license an applicant—


(1) The tribe shall notify the Commission; and


(2) Shall forward copies of its eligibility determination and notice of results, under § 556.6(b)(2) of this chapter, to the Commission for inclusion in the Indian Gaming Individuals Record System.


(e) If a tribe revokes a key employee or primary management official's license—


(1) The tribe shall notify the Commission; and


(2) Shall forward copies of its license revocation decision for inclusion in the Indian Gaming Individuals Record System.


(f) A tribe shall retain the following for inspection by the Chair or their designee for no less than three years from the date of termination of employment:


(1) The information listed under § 556.4(a)(1) through (14) of this chapter;


(2) Investigative reports, as defined in § 556.6(b) of this chapter;


(3) Eligibility determinations, as defined in § 556.5 of this chapter;


(4) Privacy Act notice, as defined in § 556.2 of this chapter; and


(5) False Statement notice, as defined in § 556.3 of this chapter.



---

[N] [88 FR 55371, Aug. 15, 2023]






