# § 622.510   Trap construction specifications and tending restrictions.

(a) *Reef fish*—(1) *Construction specifications*—(i) *Minimum mesh size.* A bare-wire fish trap used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John that has hexagonal mesh openings must have a minimum mesh size of 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) in the smallest dimension measured between centers of opposite strands. A bare-wire fish trap used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John that has other than hexagonal mesh openings or a fish trap of other than bare wire, such as coated wire or plastic, used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John, must have a minimum mesh size of 2 inches (5.1 cm) in the smallest dimension measured between centers of opposite strands.


(ii) *Escape mechanisms.* A fish trap used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John must have a panel located on one side of the trap, excluding the top, bottom, and side containing the trap entrance. The opening covered by the panel must measure not less than 8 by 8 inches (20.3 by 20.3 cm). The mesh size of the panel may not be smaller than the mesh size of the trap. The panel must be attached to the trap with untreated jute twine with a diameter not exceeding 
1/8-inch (3.2 mm). An access door may serve as the panel, provided it is on an appropriate side, it is hinged only at its bottom, its only other fastening is untreated jute twine with a diameter not exceeding 
1/8-inch (3.2 mm), and such fastening is at the top of the door so that the door will fall open when such twine degrades. Jute twine used to secure a panel may not be wrapped or overlapped.


(2) *Tending restrictions.* A fish trap in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John may be pulled or tended only by a person (other than an authorized officer) aboard the fish trap owner's vessel, or aboard another vessel if such vessel has on board written consent of the trap owner, or if the trap owner is aboard and has documentation verifying his identification number and color code. An owner's written consent must specify the time period such consent is effective and the trap owner's gear identification number and color code.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Spiny lobster*—(1) *Construction specifications*—(i) *Escape mechanisms.* A spiny lobster trap used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John must contain on any vertical side or on the top a panel no smaller in diameter than the throat or entrance of the trap. The panel must be made of or attached to the trap by one of the following degradable materials:


(A) Untreated fiber of biological origin with a diameter not exceeding 
1/8-inch (3.2 mm). This includes, but is not limited to tyre palm, hemp, jute, cotton, wool, or silk.


(B) Ungalvanized or uncoated iron wire with a diameter not exceeding 
1/16-inch (1.6 mm), that is, 16-gauge wire.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) *Tending restrictions.* A spiny lobster trap in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John may be pulled or tended only by a person (other than an authorized officer) aboard the trap owner's vessel, or aboard another vessel if such vessel has on board written consent of the trap owner, or if the trap owner is aboard and has documentation verifying his identification number and color code. An owner's written consent must specify the time period such consent is effective and the trap owner's gear identification number and color code.






