# § 60.5473   What definitions must I know?

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein have the same meaning given them in the Clean Air Act and subpart A of this part.


*Approved test laboratory* means a test laboratory that is approved for central heater certification testing under § 60.5477 or is an independent third-party test laboratory that is accredited under ISO-IEC Standard 17025 to perform testing using the test methods specified in § 60.5476 by an accreditation body that is a full member signatory to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation Mutual Recognition Arrangement and approved by the EPA for conducting testing under this subpart.


*Catalytic combustor* means a device coated with a noble metal used in a wood heater to lower the temperature required for combustion.


*Central heater* means a fuel-burning device designed to burn wood or wood pellet fuel that warms spaces other than the space where the device is located, by the distribution of air heated by the furnace through ducts or liquid heated in the device and distributed typically through pipes. Unless otherwise specified, these devices include, but are not limited to, residential forced-air furnaces (small and large) and residential hydronic heaters.


*Chip wood fuel* means wood chipped into small pieces that are uniform in size, shape, moisture, density and energy content.


*Coal-only hydronic heater or forced-air furnace* means an enclosed, coal-burning appliance capable of space heating or domestic water heating that has all of the following characteristics:


(1) Installation instructions, owner's manual and marketing information that state that the use of wood in the appliance, except for coal ignition purposes, is prohibited by law; and


(2) The model is listed by a nationally recognized safety-testing laboratory for coal use only, except for coal ignition purposes.


*Commercial owner* means any person who owns or controls a residential hydronic heater, forced-air furnace or other affected central heater in the course of the business of the manufacture, importation, distribution, or sale of the unit.


*Large residential forced-air furnace* means a residential forced-air furnace that is capable of a heat output of 65,000 BTU per hour or greater.


*Manufactured* means completed and ready for shipment (whether or not assembled or packaged) for purposes of determining the date of manufacture.


*Manufacturer* means any entity that constructs or imports into the United States a central heater.


*Model line* means all central heaters offered for sale by a single manufacturer that are similar in all material respects that would affect emissions as defined in this section.


*Particulate matter (PM)* means total particulate matter including coarse particulate (PM_10_) and fine particulate (PM_2.5_).


*Pellet fuel* means refined and densified solid wood shaped into small pellets or briquettes that are uniform in size, shape, moisture, density and energy content.


*Representative affected wood or central heater* means an individual heater that is similar in all material respects that would affect emissions as defined in this section to other heaters within the model line it represents.


*Residential forced-air furnace* means a fuel burning device designed to burn wood or wood pellet fuel that warms spaces other than the space where the furnace is located, by the distribution of air heated by the furnace through ducts.


*Residential hydronic heater* means a fuel burning device designed to burn wood or wood pellet fuel for the purpose of heating building space and/or water through the distribution, typically through pipes, of a fluid heated in the device, typically water or a water and antifreeze mixture.


*Residential masonry heater* means a factory-built or site-built wood-burning device in which the heat from intermittent fires burned rapidly in the firebox is stored in the refractory mass for slow release to building spaces. Masonry heaters are site-built (using local materials or a combination of local materials and manufactured components) or site-assembled (using factory-built components), solid fuel-burning heating appliances constructed mainly of refractory materials (*e.g.,* masonry materials or soapstone. They typically have an interior construction consisting of a firebox and heat exchange channels built from refractory components, through which flue gases are routed. ASTM E1602 “Standard Guide for Construction of Solid Fuel Burning Masonry Heaters” provides design and construction information for the range of masonry heaters most commonly built in the United States. The site-assembled models are generally listed to UL-1482.


*Sale* means the transfer of ownership or control, except that a transfer of control of an affected central heater for research and development purposes within the scope of § 60.5472(b)(2) is not a sale.


*Similar in all material respects that would affect emissions* means that the construction materials, exhaust and inlet air system, and other design features are within the allowed tolerances for components identified in § 60.5475(k).


*Small residential forced-air furnace* means a residential forced-air furnace that is only capable of a maximum heat output of less than 65,000 BTU per hour.


*Sold at retail* means the sale by a commercial owner of a central heater to the ultimate purchaser/user or noncommercial purchaser.


*Third-party certifier* (sometimes called third-party certifying body or product certifying body) means an independent third party that is accredited under ISO-IEC Standards 17025 and 17065 to perform certifications, inspections and audits by an accreditation body that is a full member signatory to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation Mutual Recognition Arrangement and approved by the EPA for conducting certifications, inspections and audits under this subpart.


*Unseasoned wood* means wood with an average moisture content of 20 percent or more.


*Valid certification test* means a test that meets the following criteria:


(1) The Administrator was notified about the test in accordance with § 60.5476(h);


(2) The test was conducted by an approved test laboratory as defined in this section;


(3) The test was conducted on a central heater similar in all material respects that would affect emissions as defined in this section to other central heaters of the model line that is to be certified; and


(4) The test was conducted in accordance with the test methods and procedures specified in § 60.5476.


*Wood heater* under this subpart means an enclosed, wood burning-appliance capable of and intended for residential central heating or central heating and domestic water heating. Unless otherwise specified, these devices include, but are not limited to, hydronic heaters and forced-air furnaces.




