# § 721.11152   Propanenitrile, 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as propanenitrile, 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)- (PMN P-15-320, CAS No. 42532-60-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), and (g)(5). It is a significant new use unless containers of the PMN substance are labeled with the statement: “contains a dielectric fluid which should not be mixed or used in conjunction with sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)”. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a dielectric medium for medium and high voltage power generation and distribution equipment.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 64759, Nov. 25, 2019]




