# § 334.1275   West Arm Behm Canal, Ketchikan, Alaska, restricted areas.

(a) *The area—Area No. 1.* The waters of Behm Canal bounded by a circle 2,000 yards in diameter, centered on 55°36′ N latitude, 131°49.2′ W longitude.


*Area No. 2.* The waters of Behm Canal bounded by a circle 2,000 yards in diameter, centered at 55°34′ N latitude, 131°48′ W longitude.


*Area No. 3.* The waters of Behm Canal excluding those areas designated as areas Nos. 1 and 2 above, bounded by an irregular polygon beginning at the shoreline on Back Island near 55°32.63′ N latitude, 131°45.18′ W longitude, then bearing about 350° T to 55°38.06′ N latitude, 131°46.75′ W longitude then bearing about 300° T to 55°38.52′ N latitude, 131°48.15′ W longitude, then bearing about 203° T to 55°33.59′ N latitude, 131°51.54′ W longitude, then bearing about 112° T to the intersection of the shoreline at Back Island near 55°32.53′ N latitude, 131°45.77′ W longitude, then northeast along the shoreline to the point of beginning.


*Area No. 4.* The waters of Clover Passage bounded by an irregular polygon beginning at the shoreline on Back Island near 55 32.63′ N latitude, 131°45.18′ W longitude, then bearing 150° T. to the intersection of the shoreline on Revillagegedo Island near 55°30.64′ N latitude, 131°43.64′ W longitude, then southwest along the shoreline to near 55°30.51′ N latitude, 131°43.88′W longitude, then bearing 330° T to the intersection of the shoreline on Back Island near 55°32.16′ N. latitude, 131°45.20′ W longitude, and from there northeast along the shoreline to the point of beginning.


*Area No. 5.* The waters of Behm Canal bounded to the north by a line starting from Point Francis on the Cleveland Peninsula to Escape Point on Revillagegedo Island then south along the shoreline to Indian Point, then south to the Grant Island Light at 55°33.3′ N latitude, 131°43.62′ W longitude then bearing 218° T. to the south end of Back Island and continuing to the intersection of the shoreline on Betton Island at about 55°31.55′ N latitude, 131°45.98′ W longitude, then north along the shoreline of Betton Island to the western side below Betton Head at about 55°30.83′ N latitude, 131°50′ W longitude, then bearing 283° T. across Behm Canal to the intersection of shoreline near the point which forms the southeast entrance of Bond Bay at about 55°31.60′ N latitude, 131°56.58′ W longitude, then northeast to Helm Point on the Cleveland Peninsula, then northeast along the shoreline to the point of beginning at Point Francis.


(b) *The regulations*—(1) *Area No. 1.* Vessels are allowed to transit the area at any time. No vessel may anchor within the restricted area or tow a drag of any kind, deploy a net or dump any material within the area.


(2) *Area No. 2.* Vessels are allowed to transit the area at any time. No vessel may anchor within the restricted area or tow a drag of any kind, deploy a net or dump any material within the area. Vessels are also prohibited from mooring or tying up to, loitering alongside or in the immediate vicinity of naval equipment and barges in the restricted area.


(3) *Area No. 3.* Vessels are allowed to transit the area at any time. Due to the presence of underwater cables and instrumentation, anchoring is prohibited and the towing of a drag or any object within 100 feet of the bottom is also prohibited. Anchoring is allowed within 100 yards of the shore of Back Island except within 100 yards of each side of the area where electrical and other cables are brought ashore. The termination location of the cables on the land is marked with a warning sign that is visible from the water.


(4) *Area No. 4.* Due to the presence of communication and power cables crossing from Revillagegedo Island to Back Island no anchoring or towing of a drag is allowed. Anchoring is allowed within 100 yards of the shore of Back Island except within 100 yards of each side of the area where the cables are brought ashore. The termination location of the cables on the land is marked with a warning sign that is visible from the water.


(5) *Area No. 5.* (i) The area will be open unless the Navy is actually conducting operations. To ensure safe and timely passage through the restricted area vessel operators are required to notify the Facility Control Officer of their expected time of arrival, speed and intentions. For vessels not equipped with radio equipment, the Navy shall signal with flashing beacon lights whether passage is prohibited and when it is safe to pass through the area. A flashing amber beacon means that the area is closed to all vessels and to await a clear signal. The flashing amber beacon not lighted is the clear signal and indicates that vessels may proceed through the area. Each closure of the area by the Navy will normally not exceed 20 minutes.


(ii) When Area No. 5 restrictions are in place, vessels may operate within 1000 yards of the shoreline at speeds no greater than 5 knots in accordance with the restriction in effect in Area No. 3.


(c) Vessels will be allowed to transit Area No. 5 within 20 minutes of marine radio or telephone notification to the Navy Facility Control Officer.


(d) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division, and such agencies he/she may designate.



---

[N] [55 FR 2586, Jan. 25, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 10237, Mar. 20, 1990; 58 FR 6718, Feb. 2, 1993; 80 FR 75948, Dec. 7, 2015]




