# § 660.114   Trawl fishery—economic data collection program.

(a) *General.* The economic data collection (EDC) program collects mandatory economic data from participants in the trawl rationalization program. NMFS requires submission of EDC forms to gather ongoing, annual economic data, including, but not limited to the following categories of information related to participation in the trawl rationalization program:


(1) Annual data related to QS permit owner activity and characteristics of participation in the fishery, costs and earnings from quota trades, and quota leasing.


(2) Annual data related to costs, earnings, value, labor, operations, physical characteristics, ownership and leasing information for vessels, first receiver sites, or shorebased processors.


(b) *Economic data collection program requirements.* The following fishery participants in the limited entry groundfish trawl fisheries are required to comply with the following EDC program requirements:


(c) *Submission of the EDC forms, and deadline*—(1) *Submission of the EDC form.* The complete, certified EDC forms must contain valid responses for all data fields, and must be submitted either by paper or web form submission as follows:


(i) *Paper form submission.* Paper forms must be submitted to ATTN: Economic Data Collection Program (FRAM Division), NMFS, Northwest Fisheries Science Center, 2725 Montlake Boulevard East, Seattle, WA 98112.


(ii) *Web form submission.* Completed EDC web forms must be submitted electronically via the Economic Data Collection Program Web Form portal through *NOAA.gov/fisheries* and the signature page faxed, mailed, or hand-delivered to NWFSC.


(2) *Deadline.* Complete, certified EDC forms must be mailed and postmarked by or hand-delivered to NMFS NWFSC no later than September 1 each year for the prior year's data.


(3) *Quota Share Permit Owner Survey Submissions and Deadline.* Quota Share Permit Owner survey forms are submitted by webform only during the quota account application and renewal process specified at § 660.140 (d)(2). The complete certified Quota Share Permit Owner survey must be submitted no later than November 30 of each year.


(d) *Confidentiality of information.* Information received on an EDC form will be considered confidential under applicable law and guidance.


(e) *EDC audit procedures*—(1) NMFS reserves the right to conduct verification of economic data with the submitter of the form. NMFS may employ a third party agent to conduct the audits.


(2) The submitter of the EDC form must respond to any inquiry by NMFS or a NMFS agent within 20 days of the date of issuance of the inquiry, unless an extension is granted by NMFS.


(3) The submitter of the form must provide copies of additional data to facilitate verification by NMFS or NMFS' agent upon request. The NMFS auditor may review and request copies of additional data provided by the submitter, including but not limited to, previously audited or reviewed financial statements, worksheets, tax returns, invoices, receipts, and other original documents substantiating the economic data submitted.



---

[N] [75 FR 78387, Dec. 15, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 55155, Sept. 7, 2012; 81 FR 84430, Nov. 23, 2016; 84 FR 68806, Dec. 17, 2019]




