# ยง 21.240   Medical treatment, care and services.

(a) *General.* A Chapter 31 participant shall be furnished medical treatment, care and services which VA determines are necessary to develop, carry out and complete the veteran's rehabilitation plan. The provision of such services is a part of the veteran's entitlement to benefits and services under Chapter 31, and is limited to the period or periods in which the veteran is a Chapter 31 participant.


(b) *Scope of services.* The services which may be furnished under Chapter 31 include the treatment, care and services described in part 17 of this title. In addition the following services may be authorized under Chapter 31 even if not included or described in part 17:


(1) Prosthetic appliances, eyeglasses, and other corrective or assistive devices;


(2) Services to a veteran's family as necessary for the effective rehabilitation of the veteran;


(3) Special services (including services related to blindness and deafness) including:


(i) Language training; speech and voice correction, training in ambulation, and one-hand typewriting;


(ii) Orientation, adjustment, mobility and related services;


(iii) Telecommunications, sensory and other technical aids and devices.


(c) *Eligibility.* A veteran is eligible for the services described in paragraph (b) of this section during periods in which he or she is considered a Chapter 31 participant. These periods include:


(1) Initial evaluation;


(2) Extended evaluation;


(3) Rehabilitation to the point of employability;


(4) Independent living services program;


(5) Employment services; and


(6) Other periods to the extent that services are needed to begin or continue in any of the statutes described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. Such periods include but are not limited to services needed to facilitate reentry into rehabilitation following:


(i) Interruption; or


(ii) Discontinuance because of illness or injury.


