# § 831.663   Actuarial reduction in annuity of retirees who make post-retirement elections to provide a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity.

(a) *Applicability of this section.* This section applies to all retirees who are required to pay deposits under § 831.631 or § 831.632 and have not paid any portion of the deposit prior to October 1, 1993, or from annuity accruing before that date.


(b) *Other methods of payment not available.* Retirees described in paragraph (a) of this section must have a permanent annuity reduction computed under paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Commencing date of the reduction.* A reduction under this section commences on the same date as the annuity reduction under § 831.631 or § 831.632.


(d) *Computing the amount of the reduction.* The annuity reduction under this section is equal to the lesser of—


(1) The amount of the deposit under § 831.631 or § 831.632 divided by the present value factor for the retiree's age on the commencing date of the reduction under paragraph (c) of this section (plus any previous reduction(s) in the retiree's annuity required under this section § 831.664); or


(2) Twenty-five percent of the rate of the retiree's self-only annuity on the commencing date of the reduction under paragraph (c) of this section. 


(e) *Termination of the reduction.* (1) The reduction under this section terminates on the date that the retiree dies.


(2) If payment of a retiree's annuity is suspended or terminated and later reinstated, or if a new annuity becomes payable, OPM will increase the amount of the original reduction computed under paragraph (d) of this section by any cost-of-living adjustments under section 8340 of title 5, United States Code, occurring between the commencing date of the original reduction and the commencing date of the reinstated or new annuity (but the adjusted reduction may not exceed 25 percent of the rate of the reinstated or new self-only annuity).



---

[N] [58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993]




