# § 19.752   Marks.

(a) *Fuel alcohol.* A proprietor of an alcohol fuel plant must place a conspicuous and permanent warning mark or label on each container of 55 gallons or less of fuel alcohol that the proprietor will withdraw from the plant premises. The proprietor must place the mark or label on the head or side of the container and must use plain, legible letters. The proprietor may place other marks or labels on the container if the other marks or labels do not obscure the required warning. The required warning is as follows:


(b) *Spirits.* If a proprietor intends to transfer barrels, drums, or similar portable containers of spirits to a distilled spirits plant qualified under subpart D of this part, the proprietor must mark or label each container. The proprietor must place the mark or label on the head or side of the container and must use plain, legible letters. The proprietor may place other marks or labels on the container if the other marks or labels do not obscure the required marks or labels. The required mark or label each container must contain the following information:


(1) Quantity in wine gallons;


(2) Proof of the spirits;


(3) Name, address, and permit number of the alcohol fuel plant;


(4) The words “Spirits—For Alcohol Fuel Use Only”; and


(5) The serial number of the container. Serial numbers must be assigned as follows—


(i) Consecutively commencing with “1”;


(ii) When the numbering system of any series reaches “1,000,000” the proprietor may begin the series again by adding an alphabetical prefix or suffix to the series; and


(iii) When there is a change in proprietorship or a change in the individual, firm, corporate name, or trade name, the series in use at the time of the change may be continued.


