# § 173.8   Exceptions for non-specification packagings used in intrastate transportation.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Non-specification cargo tanks for petroleum products.* Notwithstanding requirements for specification packagings in subpart F of this part and parts 178 and 180 of this subchapter, a non-specification cargo tank motor vehicle having a capacity of less than 13,250 L (3,500 gallons) may be used by an intrastate motor carrier for transportation of a flammable liquid petroleum product in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Permanently secured non-bulk tanks for petroleum products.* Notwithstanding requirements for specification packagings in subpart F of this part 173 and parts 178 and 180 of this subchapter, a non-specification metal tank permanently secured to a transport vehicle and protected against leakage or damage in the event of a turnover, having a capacity of less than 450 L (119 gallons), may be used by an intrastate motor carrier for transportation of a flammable liquid petroleum product in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Additional requirements.* A packaging used under the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section must—


(1) Be operated by an intrastate motor carrier and in use as a packaging for hazardous material before October 1, 1998;


(2) Be operated in conformance with the requirements of the State in which it is authorized;


(3) Be specifically authorized by a State statute or regulation in effect before October 1, 1998, for use as a packaging for the hazardous material being transported;


(4) Be offered for transportation and transported in conformance with all other applicable requirements of this subchapter;


(5) Not be used to transport a flammable cryogenic liquid, hazardous substance, hazardous waste, or a marine pollutant (except for gasoline); and


(6) For a tank authorized under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, conform to all requirements in part 180 (except for § 180.405(g)) of this subchapter in the same manner as required for a DOT specification MC 306 cargo tank motor vehicle.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-259, 62 FR 1216, Jan. 8, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 172-262, 62 FR 49567, Sept. 22, 1997; Amdt. 173-259, 63 FR 8142, Feb. 18, 1998; 66 FR 45380, Aug. 28, 2001; 76 FR 56315, Sept. 13, 2011; 80 FR 72924, Nov. 23, 2015]




