# ยง 3286.511   Inspector qualifications.

(a) Qualifications. Any individual or entity who meets at least one of the following qualifications is permitted to review the work and verify the installation of a manufactured home that is subject to the requirements of the HUD-administered installation program:


(1) A manufactured home or residential building inspector employed by the local authority having jurisdiction over the site of the home, provided that the jurisdiction has a residential code enforcement program;


(2) A professional engineer;


(3) A registered architect;


(4) A HUD-accepted Production Inspection Primary Inspection Agency (IPIA) or a Design Approval Primary Inspection Agency (DAPIA); or


(5) An International Code Council certified inspector.


(b) *Independence required.* The inspector must be independent of the manufacturer, the retailer, the installer, and any other person that has a monetary interest, other than collection of an inspection fee, in the completion of the sale of the home to the purchaser.


(c) *Suspension or revocation of inspection authority.* After notice and an opportunity for a presentation of views in accordance with subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter, the Secretary may suspend or revoke an inspector's authority to inspect manufactured home installations under this part in HUD-administered states. An inspector's authority may be suspended or revoked for cause. In deciding whether to suspend or revoke an inspector's authority to conduct such installation inspections, the Secretary will consider the impact of the suspension or revocation on other affected parties and will seek to assure that the sales and siting of manufactured homes are not unduly disrupted.


(d) *Reinstating inspection authority.* An inspector whose authority to inspect manufactured home installations in HUD-administered states has been suspended or revoked under this section may apply for reauthorization by contacting: Administrator, Office of Manufactured Housing Programs, HUD, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Room 9164, Washington, DC 20410-8000, or to a fax number or e-mail address obtained by calling the Office of Manufactured Housing Programs at the toll-free telephone number 1-800-927-2891, extension 57.




