# § 200.195   Removal of nonprofit organization from Nonprofit Organization Roster.

(a) *Cause for removal.* HUD may remove a nonprofit organization from the FHA Nonprofit Organization Roster established under § 200.194. Removal may be for any cause that HUD determines to be detrimental to FHA or any of its programs, including but not limited to: 


(1) Failure to comply with applicable single family regulations in this chapter, Mortgagee Letters or other written instructions or standards issued by HUD; 


(2) Failure to comply with applicable Civil Rights requirements; 


(3) Holding a significant number of FHA-insured mortgages that are in default, foreclosure, or claim status (in determining the number considered “significant,” HUD may compare the number of insured mortgages held by the nonprofit organization against the similar holdings of other nonprofit organizations); 


(4) Being debarred or suspended, subject to a limited denial of participation, or otherwise sanctioned by HUD; 


(5) Failure to further all objectives described in the affordable housing program narrative; 


(6) Misrepresentation or fraudulent statements; or 


(7) Failure to respond within a reasonable time to HUD inquiries, including recertification requests or other requests for further documentation. 


(b) *Procedure for removal.* A nonprofit organization that is debarred or suspended or subject to a limited denial of participation will be automatically removed from the FHA Nonprofit Organization Roster. In all other cases, the following procedure for removal applies: 


(1) HUD will give the nonprofit organization written notice of the proposed removal. The notice will include the reasons for the proposed removal and the duration of the proposed removal. 


(2) The nonprofit organization will have 20 days from the date of the notice (or longer, if provided in the notice) to submit a written response appealing the proposed removal and to request a conference. A request for a conference must be in writing and must be submitted along with the written response. 


(3) A HUD official will review the appeal and provide an informal conference if requested. The HUD official will send a response either affirming, modifying, or canceling the removal. The HUD official will not be someone who was involved in HUD's initial removal decision. HUD will respond with a decision within 30 days of receiving the response, or, if the nonprofit organization has requested a conference, within 30 days after the completion of the conference. HUD may extend the 30-day period by providing written notice to the nonprofit organization. 


(4) If the nonprofit organization does not submit a timely written response, the removal will be effective 20 days after the date of HUD's initial removal notice (or after a longer period provided in the notice). If a written response is submitted, and the initial removal decision is affirmed or modified, the removal will be effective on the date of HUD's notice affirming or modifying the initial removal decision. 


(c) *Placement on the Roster after removal.* A nonprofit organization that has been removed from the FHA Nonprofit Organization Roster may apply for placement on the Roster (in accordance with § 200.194) after the nonprofit organization's removal from the Roster has expired. An application will be rejected if the period for the nonprofit organization's removal from the Roster has not expired. 


(d) *Other action.* Nothing in this section prohibits HUD from taking such other action against a nonprofit organization, as provided in 2 CFR part 2424, or from seeking any other remedy against a nonprofit organization, available to HUD by statute or otherwise.



---

[N] [67 FR 39239, June 6, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 73494, Dec. 27, 2007]




