# § 271.23   Procedures for withdrawing approval of State programs.

(a) A State with a program approved under this part may voluntarily transfer program responsibilities required by Federal law to EPA by taking the following actions, or in such other manner as may be agreed upon with the Administrator.


(1) The State shall give the Administrator 180 days notice of the proposed transfer and shall submit a plan for the orderly transfer of all relevant program information not in the possession of EPA (such as permits, permit files, compliance files, reports, permit applications) which are necessary for EPA to administer the program.


(2) Within 60 days of receiving the notice and transfer plan, the Administrator shall evaluate the State's transfer plan and shall identify any additional information needed by the Federal government for program administration and/or identify any other deficiencies in the plan.


(3) At least 30 days before the transfer is to occur the Administrator shall publish notice of the transfer in the _Federal Register_ and in enough of the largest newspapers in the State to provide Statewide coverage, and shall mail notice to all permit holders, permit applicants, other regulated persons and other interested persons on appropriate EPA and State mailing lists.


(b) The following procedures apply when the Administrator orders the commencement of proceedings to determine whether to withdraw approval of a State program.


(1) *Order.* The Administrator may order the commencement of withdrawal proceedings on his or her own initiative or in response to a petition from an interested person alleging failure of the State to comply with the requirements of this part as set forth in § 271.22. The Administrator shall respond in writing to any petition to commence withdrawal proceedings. He may conduct an informal investigation of the allegations in the petition to determine whether cause exists to commence proceedings under this paragraph. The Administrator's order commencing proceedings under this paragraph shall fix a time and place for the commencement of the hearing and shall specify the allegations against the State which are to be considered at the hearing. Within 30 days the State shall admit or deny these allegations in a written answer. The party seeking withdrawal of the State's program shall have the burden of coming forward with the evidence in a hearing under this paragraph.


(2) *Definitions.* For purposes of this paragraph the definitions of *Act, Administrative Law Judge, Hearing, Hearing Clerk,* and *Presiding Officer* in 40 CFR 22.03 apply in addition to the following:


(i) *Party* means the petitioner, the State, the Agency and any other person whose request to participate as a party is granted.


(ii) *Person* means the Agency, the State and any individual or organization having an interest in the subject matter of the proceeding.


(iii) *Petitioner* means any person whose petition for commencement of withdrawal proceedings has been granted by the Administrator.


(3) *Procedures.* The following provisions of 40 CFR part 22 (Consolidated Rules of Practice) are applicable to proceedings under this paragraph:


(i) Section 22.02—(use of number/gender);


(ii) Section 22.04(c)—(authorities of Presiding Officer);


(iii) Section 22.06—(filing/service of rulings and orders);


(iv) Section 22.07 (a) and (b)—except that, the time for commencement of the hearing shall not be extended beyond the date set in the Administrator's order without approval of the Administrator (computation/extension of time);


(v) Section 22.08—however, substitute “order commencing proceedings” for “complaint”—(Ex Parte contacts);


(vi) Section 22.09—(examination of filed documents);


(vii) Section 22.11 (a), (c) and (d), however, motions to intervene must be filed 15 days from the date the notice of the Administrator's order is first published—(intervention);


(viii) Section 22.16 except that, service shall be in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the first sentence in § 22.16(c) shall be deleted, and, the word “recommended” shall be substituted for the word “initial” in § 22.16(c)—(motions);


(ix) Section 22.19 (a), (b) and (c)—(prehearing conference);


(x) Section 22.22—(evidence);


(xi) Section 22.23—(objections/offers of proof);


(xii) Section 22.25—(filing the transcript); and


(xiii) Section 22.26—(findings/conclusions).


(4) *Record of proceedings.* (i) The hearing shall be either stenographically reported verbatim or tape recorded, and thereupon transcribed by an official reporter designated by the Presiding Officer;


(ii) All orders issued by the Presiding Officer, transcripts of testimony, written statements of position, stipulations, exhibits, motions, briefs, and other written material of any kind submitted in the hearing shall be a part of the record and shall be available for inspection or copying in the Office of the Hearing Clerk, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460;


(iii) Upon notice to all parties the Presiding Officer may authorize corrections to the transcript which involve matters of substance;


(iv) An original and two (2) copies of all written submissions to the hearing shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk;


(v) A copy of each such submission shall be served by the person making the submission upon the Presiding Officer and each party of record. Service under this paragraph shall take place by mail or personal delivery;


(vi) Every submission shall be accompanied by an acknowledgement of service by the person served or proof of service in the form of a statement of the date, time, and manner of service and the names of the persons served, certified by the person who made service; and


(vii) The Hearing Clerk shall maintain and furnish to any person upon request, a list containing the name, service address, and telephone number of all parties and their attorneys or duly authorized representatives.


(5) *Participation by a person not a party.* A person who is not a party may, at the discretion of the Presiding Officer, be permitted to make a limited appearance by making an oral or written statement of his/her position on the issues within such limits and on such conditions as may be fixed by the Presiding Officer, but he/she may not otherwise participate in the proceeding.


(6) *Rights of parties.* All parties to the proceeding may;


(i) Appear by counsel or other representative in all hearing and pre-hearing proceedings;


(ii) Agree to stipulations of facts which shall be made a part of the record.


(7) *Recommended decision.* (i) Within 30 days after the filing of proposed findings and conclusions, and reply briefs, the Presiding Officer shall evaluate the record before him/her, the proposed findings and conclusions and any briefs filed by the parties and shall prepare a recommended decision, and shall certify the entire record, including the recommended decision, to the Administrator.


(ii) Copies of the recommended decision shall be served upon all parties.


(iii) Within 20 days after the certification and filing of the record and recommended decision, all parties may file with the Administrator exceptions to the recommended decision and a supporting brief.


(8) *Decision by Administrator.* (i) Within 60 days after the certification of the record and filing of the Presiding Officer's recommended decision, the Administrator shall review the record before him and issue his own decision.


(ii) If the Administrator concludes that the State has administered the program in conformity with the Act and regulations his decision shall constitute “final agency action” within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.


(iii) If the Administrator concludes that the State has not administered the program in conformity with the Act and regulations he shall list the deficiencies in the program and provide the State a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, to take such appropriate corrective action as the Administrator determines necessary.


(iv) Within the time prescribed by the Administrator the State shall take such appropriate corrective action as required by the Administrator and shall file with the Administrator and all parties a statement certified by the State Director that appropriate corrective action has been taken.


(v) The Administrator may require a further showing in addition to the certified statement that corrective action has been taken.


(vi) If the State fails to take appropriate corrective action and file a certified statement thereof within the time prescribed by the Administrator, the Administrator shall issue a supplementary order withdrawing approval of the State program. If the State takes appropriate corrective action, the Administrator shall issue a supplementary order stating that approval of authority is not withdrawn.


(vii) The Administrator's supplementary order shall constitute final Agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.


(c) Withdrawal of authorization under this section and the Act does not relieve any person from complying with the requirements of State law, nor does it affect the validity of actions by the State prior to withdrawal. 



---

[N] [48 FR 14248, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 71 FR 40280, July 14, 2006]




