# § 22.710   Assignment of grants administration offices.

In accordance with the policy stated in § 22.705(b), the DoD offices (referred to in this part as “grants administration offices”) that are assigned responsibility for performing field administration services for grants and cooperative agreements are (see the “Federal Directory of Contract Administration Services (CAS) Components” 
7 for specific addresses of administration offices):


(a) Regional offices of the Office of Naval Research, for grants and cooperative agreements with:


(1) Institutions of higher education and laboratories affiliated with such institutions, to the extent that such organizations are subject to the cost principles in subpart E of 2 CFR part 200.


(2) Nonprofit organizations that are subject to the cost principles in subpart E of 2 CFR part 200 if their principal business with the Department of Defense is research and development.


(b) Field offices of the Defense Contract Management Agency, for grants and cooperative agreements with all other entities, including:


(1) For-profit organizations.


(2) Nonprofit organizations identified in appendix VIII to 2 CFR part 200 that are subject to for-profit cost principles in 48 CFR part 31.


(3) Nonprofit organizations subject to the cost principles in subpart E of 2 CFR part 200, if their principal business with the Department of Defense is other than research and development.


(4) State and local governments.



---

[N] [63 FR 12164, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 49466, Aug. 23, 2005; 72 FR 34989, June 26, 2007; 85 FR 51243, Aug. 19, 2020]




