# ยง 920.63   Termination.

(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this part by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner in which the Secretary may determine.


(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any and all of the provisions of this part whenever the Secretary finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.


(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part whenever the Secretary finds by referendum or otherwise that such termination is favored by a majority of the growers: *Provided,* That such majority has, during the current marketing season, produced more than 50 percent of the volume of the kiwifruit which were produced within the production area for shipment in fresh form. Such termination shall become effective on the first day of August subsequent to the announcement thereof by the Secretary.


(d) The committee shall consider all petitions from growers submitted to it for termination of this part provided such petitions are received by the committee prior to February 1 of the then current fiscal period. Upon recommendation of the committee received not later than April 1 of the then current fiscal period, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among the growers prior to July 15 of such fiscal period to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by producers.


(e) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum within the period beginning May 15, 1990, and ending July 15, 1990, to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by the growers as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. The Secretary shall conduct such a referendum within the same period of every sixth fiscal period thereafter.


(f) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.




