# § 303.222   Which offenses qualify as “Covered Offenses” under section 19?

(a) *Categories of Covered Offenses.* The conviction or program entry must be for a criminal offense involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or money laundering.


(1) The term *criminal offense involving dishonesty*—


(i) Means an offense under which an individual, directly or indirectly—


(A) Cheats or defrauds; or


(B) Wrongfully takes property belonging to another in violation of a criminal statute;


(ii) Includes an offense that Federal, State, or local law defines as dishonest, or for which dishonesty is an element of the offense; and


(iii) Does not include—


(A) A misdemeanor criminal offense committed more than one year before the date on which an individual files a consent application, excluding any period of incarceration; or


(B) An offense involving the possession of controlled substances. At a minimum, this exclusion applies to criminal offenses involving the simple possession of a controlled substance and possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance. This exclusion may also apply to other drug-related offenses depending on the statutory elements of the offenses or from court determinations that the statutory provisions of the offenses do not involve dishonesty, breach of trust, or money laundering, as noted in paragraph (b) of this section. Potential applicants may contact their appropriate FDIC Regional Office if they have questions about whether their offenses are covered under section 19.


(iv) The term *offense committed* in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(A) of this section means the last date of the underlying misconduct. In instances with multiple offenses, *offense committed* means the last date of any of the underlying offenses.


(2) The term *breach of trust* means a wrongful act, use, misappropriation, or omission with respect to any property or fund that has been committed to a person in a fiduciary or official capacity, or the misuse of one's official or fiduciary position to engage in a wrongful act, use, misappropriation, or omission.


(b) *Elements of the offense.* Whether a crime involves dishonesty, breach of trust, or money laundering will be determined from the statutory elements of the offense itself or from court determinations that the statutory provisions of the offense involve dishonesty, breach of trust, or money laundering.


(c) *Certain older offenses excluded*—(1) *Exclusions for certain older offenses.* Section 19 does not apply to an offense if—


(i) It has been 7 years or more since the offense occurred; or


(ii) The individual was incarcerated with respect to the offense and it has been 5 years or more since the individual was released from incarceration.


(iii) The term *offense occurred* means the last date of the underlying misconduct. In instances with multiple Covered Offenses, *offense occurred* means the last date of any of the underlying offenses.


(2) *Offenses committed by individuals 21 years of age or younger.* For individuals who committed an offense when they were 21 years of age or younger, section 19 does not apply to the offense if it has been more than 30 months since the sentencing occurred. The term *sentencing occurred* means the date on which a court imposed the sentence (as indicated by the date on the court's sentencing order), not the date on which all conditions of sentencing were completed.


(3) *Limitation.* This paragraph (c) does not apply to an offense described under 12 U.S.C. 1829(a)(2).


(d) *Foreign convictions.* Individuals who are convicted of or enter into a pretrial diversion program for a criminal offense involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or money laundering in any foreign jurisdiction are subject to section 19, unless the offense is otherwise excluded by this subpart.






