# ยง 955.5   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Applicant* means a person who submits an application for an OSM blaster certificate.


*Application* means a request for an OSM blaster certificate submitted on the prescribed form, including the required fee and any applicable supporting evidence or other attachments.


*Issue* and *issuance* mean to grant to an applicant his or her first OSM blaster certificate that is not granted through reciprocity.


*Reciprocity* means the recognition by OSM of a blaster certificate issued by a State regulatory authority under an OSM-approved blaster certification program as qualifying an applicant for the grant of an OSM blaster certificate.


*Reissue* and *reissuance* are synonymous with the term *recertification* in ยง 850.15(c) of this chapter, and mean to grant to an applicant who holds a renewed OSM blaster certificate, or who holds an OSM blaster certificate that expired more than 1 year prior to the date of his or her application, or who held an OSM blaster certificate that was revoked, a subsequent certificate that is not granted through reciprocity and for which additional training and examination are required.


*Renew* and *renewal* mean to grant to an applicant who holds an issued or reissued OSM blaster certificate a subsequent certificate that is not granted through reciprocity and for which additional training and examination are not required.


*Replace* and *replacement* mean to grant to an applicant a duplicate OSM blaster certificate as a substitute for one that was lost or destroyed.




