# § 3.70   Notification of certain information regarding associated persons.

(a) *Notice.* A registrant must notify the Commission under section 4k(5) of the Act of any facts regarding an associated person of the registrant or an applicant for registration as an associated person whom it has sponsored pursuant to the provisions of § 3.12 of this part or whom it intends to hire or otherwise employ as an associated person which are set forth as statutory disqualifications in section 8a(2) of the Act within ten business days of the date upon which the registrant first knows or should have known such facts. Notice to the Commission shall be sufficient if the registrant gives notice to the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director's designee by telephone and confirms such notice in writing by certified or registered mail or equivalent means to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters (Attn: Deputy Director, Registration and Compliance Branch, Market Participants Division).


(b) *Unlawful to act as an associated person.* Upon the earlier of notification to the Commission by the registrant pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or actual receipt of notice to the registrant pursuant to § 3.50(b)(1) of this part, that an associated person of the registrant or an applicant for registration as an associated person may be subject to a statutory disqualification as set forth in section 8a(2) of the Act, it shall be unlawful for the registrant to permit such person to act in the capacity of an associated person of the registrant until the Commission determines that such person should nonetheless be registered.


(c) *Proceedings under subpart C.* Upon notification to the Commission by the registrant under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission may promptly issue notice under § 3.55 or § 3.60 of this part, as appropriate, to suspend and revoke the registration of the associated person of the registrant or to deny the registration of the applicant for registration as an associated person of the registrant.



---

[N] [49 FR 8223, Mar. 5, 1984, as amended at 57 FR 23155, June 2, 1992; 60 FR 49334, Sept. 25, 1995; 67 FR 62351, 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]




