# § 4.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 201 *et seq.*).


*Collections* means all books, periodicals, prints, audiovisual materials, films, videotapes, recordings, manuscripts, and other resource materials of the library. It does not include data processing tapes or programs used solely for internal processing activities to generate reference materials, nor does it include “records” of the Library as defined in 45 CFR 5.5. Records of the Library are available in accordance with the regulations under the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act of 1974. (See 45 CFR parts 5 and 5b.)


*Director* means the Director of the National Library of Medicine or the Director's delegate.


*Health-sciences professional* means any person engaged in: (1) The administration of health activities; (2) the provision of health services; or (3) research, teaching, or education concerned with the advancement of medicine or other sciences related to health or improvement of the public health.


*Historical collection* means: (1) Materials in the collections published or printed prior to 1914; (2) manuscripts and prints; (3) the archival film collection; and (4) other materials of the collections which, because of age, or unique or unusual value, require special handling, storage, or protection for their preservation, as determined by the Director.


*Library* means the National Library of Medicine, established by section 465 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 286).


*Regional Medical Library* means a medical library established or maintained as a regional medical library under section 475 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 286b-6).




