# § 1780.87   Permanent instruments for Agency loans.

Agency loans will be evidenced by an instrument determined legally sufficient and in accordance with the following order of preference:


(a) *First preference—Form RD 440-22, “Promissory Note”.* Refer to paragraph (b) of this section for methods of various frequency payment calculations.


(b) *Second preference—single instruments with amortized installments.* A single instrument providing for amortized installments which follows Form RD 440-22 as closely as possible. The full amount of the loan must show on the face of the instrument, and there must be provisions for entering the date and amount of each advance on the reverse or an attachment. When principal payments are deferred, the instrument will show that “interest only” is due on interest-only installment dates, rather than specific dollar amounts. The payment period including the “interest only” installment cannot exceed 40 years, the useful life of the facility, or State statute limitations, whichever occurs first. The amortized installment, computed as follows, will be shown as due on installment dates thereafter.


(1) *Monthly payments.* Multiply by twelve the number of years between the due date of the last interest-only installment and the final installment to determine the number of monthly payments. When there are no interest-only installments, multiply by twelve the number of years over which the loan is amortized. Then multiply the loan amount by the amortization factor and round to the next higher dollar.


(2) *Semiannual payments.* Multiply by two the number of years between the due date of the last interest-only installment and the due date of the final installment to determine the correct number of semiannual periods. When there are no interest-only installments, multiply by two the number of years over which the loan is amortized. Then multiply the loan amount by the applicable amortization factor.


(3) *Annual payments.* Subtract the due date of the last interest-only installment from the due date of the final installment to determine the number of annual payments. When there are no interest-only installments, the number of annual payments will equal the number of years over which the loan is amortized. Then multiply the loan amount by the applicable amortization factor and round to the next higher dollar.


(c) *Third preference—single instruments with installments of principal plus interest.* If a single instrument with amortized installments is not legally permissible, use a single instrument providing for installments of principal plus interest accrued on the principal balance. For bonds with semiannual interest and annual principal, the interest is calculated by multiplying the principal balance times the interest rate and dividing this figure by two. Principal installments are to be scheduled so that total combined interest and principal payments closely approximate amortized payments.


(1) The repayment terms concerning interest only installments described in paragraph (b) of this section apply.


(2) The instrument shall contain in substance provisions indicating:


(i) Principal maturities and due dates;


(ii) Regular payments shall be applied first to interest due through the next principal and interest installment due date and then to principal due in chronological order stipulated in the bond; and


(iii) Payments on delinquent accounts will be applied in the following sequence:


(A) Billed delinquent interest;


(B) Past due interest installments;


(C) Past due principal installments;


(D) Interest installment due; and


(E) Principal installment due.


(d) *Fourth preference—serial bonds with installments of principal plus interest.* If instruments described under the first, second, and third preferences are not legally permissible, use serial bonds with a bond or bonds delivered in the amount of each advance. Bonds will be numbered consecutively and delivered in chronological order. Such bonds will conform to the minimum requirements of § 1780.94. Provisions for application of payments will be the same as those set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(e) *Coupon bonds.* Coupon bonds will not be used unless required by State statute. Such bonds will conform to the minimum requirements of § 1780.94.




