# § 25.291   Records.

(a) *General.* (1) The records to be maintained by brewers include:


(i) All individual transaction forms, records, and summaries specifically required by this part;


(ii) All supplemental, auxiliary, and source data used in the compilation of required forms, records, and summaries, and for preparation of reports, returns, and claims; and


(iii) Copies of notices, reports, returns, and approved applications and other documents relating to operations and transactions.


(2) The records required by this part may consist of the brewer's commercial documents, rather than records prepared expressly to meet the requirements of this part, if those documents contain all the details required by this part, are consistent with the general requirements of clarity and accuracy, and do not result in difficulty in their examination.


(b) *Entries.* (1) Each entry required by this part to be made in daily records will be made not later than the close of the business day next succeeding the day on which the transaction occurs.


(2) When the brewer prepares transaction or business records concurrently with the individual operation or transaction and these records contain all the required information with respect to the operation or transaction, entries in daily records may be made not later than the close of business the third business day succeeding the day on which the operation or transaction occurs.


(c) *Content.* (1) All entries in the daily records required by this subpart will show the date of the operation or transaction.


(2) Daily records will accurately and clearly reflect the details of each operation or transaction and, as applicable, contain all data necessary to enable—


(i) Brewers to prepare summaries, reports, and returns required by this part, and


(ii) Appropriate TTB officers to verify removals of beer and cereal beverages, to verify claims, and to ascertain if there has been compliance with law and regulations.


(d) *Format.* (1) The brewer's copies of prescribed forms which bear all required details will be utilized as daily records.


(2) When a form is not prescribed, the records required by this subpart will be those commercial records used by the brewer in the accounting system and will bear all required details.


(3) The brewer shall maintain daily records required by this part so they clearly and accurately reflect all mandatory information. When the format or arrangement of the daily records is such that the information is not clearly or accurately shown, the appropriate TTB officer may require a format or arrangement which will clearly and accurately show the information.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D TTB-196, 89 FR 87943, Nov. 6, 2024]






