# § 417.121   Safety critical preflight operations.

(a) *General.* A launch operator must perform safety critical preflight operations that protect the public from the adverse effects of hazards associated with launch processing and flight of a launch vehicle. The launch operator must identify all safety critical preflight operations in the launch schedule required by § 417.17(b)(1). Safety critical preflight operations must include those defined in this section.


(b) *Countdown.* A launch operator must implement its countdown plan, of § 417.111(l), for each launch. A launch operator must disseminate a countdown plan to all personnel responsible for the countdown and flight of a launch vehicle, and each person must follow that plan.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Meteorological data.* A launch operator must conduct operations and coordinate with weather organizations, as needed, to obtain accurate meteorological data to support the flight safety analysis required by subpart C of this part and to ensure compliance with the flight commit criteria required by § 417.113.


(e) *Local notification.* A launch operator must implement its local agreements and public coordination plan of § 417.111(i).


(f) *Hazard area surveillance.* A launch operator must implement its hazard area surveillance and clearance plan, of § 417.111(j), to meet the public safety criteria of § 417.107(b) for each launch.


(g) *Flight safety system preflight tests.* A launch operator must conduct preflight tests of any flight safety system as required by section E417.41 of appendix E of this part.


(h) *Launch vehicle tracking data verification.* For each launch, a launch operator must implement written procedures for verifying the accuracy of any launch vehicle tracking data provided. For a launch vehicle flown with a flight safety system, any source of tracking data must satisfy the requirements of § 417.307(b).


(i) *Unguided suborbital rocket preflight operations.* For the launch of an unguided suborbital rocket, in addition to meeting the other requirements of this section, a launch operator must perform the preflight wind weighting and other preflight safety operations required by §§ 417.125, 417.233, and appendix C of this part. 



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2000-7953, 71 FR 50537, Aug. 25, 2006, as amended by Amdt. No. 417-5, 81 FR 59439, Aug. 30, 2016; Doc. No. FAA-2019-0229, Amdt. 417-6, 85 FR 79716, Dec. 10, 2020]




