# ยง 3285.904   Utility system connections.

(a) It is recommended that the manufacturer's installation instructions indicate the following procedures be used prior to making any utility system connection:


(1) Where an LAHJ and utility services are available, that the LAHJ and all utility services each be consulted before connecting the manufactured home to any utilities, or


(2) Where no LAHJ exists and utility services are available, that the utilities be consulted before connecting the manufactured home to any utility service; or


(3) In rural areas where no LAHJ or utility services are available, that a professional be consulted prior to making any system connections.


(b) *Qualified personnel.* Only qualified personnel familiar with local requirements are permitted to make utility site connections and conduct tests.


(c) *Drainage system.* The main drain line must be connected to the site's sewer hookup, using an elastomeric coupler or by other methods acceptable to the LAHJ, as shown in Figure A to this section.


(d) *Fuel supply system.* (1) *Conversion of gas appliances.* A service person acceptable to the LAHJ must convert the appliance from one type of gas to another, following instructions by the manufacturer of each appliance.


(2) *Orifices and regulators.* Before making any connections to the site supply, the inlet orifices of all gas-burning appliances must be checked to ensure they are correctly set up for the type of gas to be supplied.


(3) *Connection procedures.* Gas-burning appliance vents must be inspected to ensure that they are connected to the appliance and that roof jacks are properly installed and have not come loose during transit.


(4) *Gas appliance start-up procedures.* The LAHJ should be consulted concerning the following gas appliance startup procedures:


(i) One at a time, opening equipment shutoff valves, lighting pilot lights when provided, and adjusting burners and spark igniters for automatic ignition systems, in accordance with each appliance manufacturer instructions.


(ii) Checking the operation of the furnace and water heater thermostats.


