# ยง 212.12   Parole determinations and revocations respecting Mariel Cubans.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to any native of Cuba who last came to the United States between April 15, 1980, and October 20, 1980 (hereinafter referred to as *Mariel Cuban*) and who is being detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (hereinafter referred to as the *Service*) pending his or her exclusion hearing, or pending his or her return to Cuba or to another country. It covers Mariel Cubans who have never been paroled as well as those Mariel Cubans whose previous parole has been revoked by the Service. It also applies to any Mariel Cuban, detained under the authority of the Immigration and Nationality Act in any facility, who has not been approved for release or who is currently awaiting movement to a Service or Bureau Of Prisons (BOP) facility. In addition, it covers the revocation of parole for those Mariel Cubans who have been released on parole at any time. 


(b) *Parole authority and decision.* The authority to grant parole under section 212(d)(5) of the Act to a detained Mariel Cuban shall be exercised by the Commissioner, acting through the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement, as follows: 


(1) *Parole decisions.* The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement may, in the exercise of discretion, grant parole to a detained Mariel Cuban for emergent reasons or for reasons deemed strictly in the public interest. A decision to retain in custody shall briefly set forth the reasons for the continued detention. A decision to release on parole may contain such special conditions as are considered appropriate. A copy of any decision to parole or to detain, with an attached copy translated into Spanish, shall be provided to the detainee. Parole documentation for Mariel Cubans shall be issued by the district director having jurisdiction over the alien, in accordance with the parole determination made by the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement. 


(2) *Additional delegation of authority.* All references to the Commissioner and Associate Commissioner for Enforcement in this section shall be deemed to include any person or persons (including a committee) designated in writing by the Commissioner or Associate Commissioner for Enforcement to exercise powers under this section.


(c) *Review Plan Director.* The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement shall appoint a Director of the Cuban Review Plan. The Director shall have authority to establish and maintain appropriate files respecting each Mariel Cuban to be reviewed for possible parole, to determine the order in which the cases shall be reviewed, and to coordinate activities associated with these reviews. 


(d) *Recommendations to the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement.* Parole recommendations for detained Mariel Cubans shall be developed in accordance with the following procedures. 


(1) *Review Panels.* The Director shall designate a panel or panels to make parole recommendations to the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement. A Cuban Review Panel shall, except as otherwise provided, consist of two persons. Members of a Review Panel shall be selected from the professional staff of the Service. All recommendations by a two-member Panel shall be unanimous. If the vote of a two-member Panel is split, it shall adjourn its deliberations concerning that particular detainee until a third Panel member is added. A recommendation by a three-member Panel shall be by majority vote. The third member of any Panel shall be the Director of the Cuban Review Plan or his designee. 


(2) *Criteria for Review.* Before making any recommendation that a detainee be granted parole, a majority of the Cuban Review Panel members, or the Director in case of a record review, must conclude that: 


(i) The detainee is presently a nonviolent person; 


(ii) The detainee is likely to remain nonviolent; 


(iii) The detainee is not likely to pose a threat to the community following his release; and 


(iv) The detainee is not likely to violate the conditions of his parole. 


(3) *Factors for consideration.* The following factors should be weighed in considering whether to recommend further detention or release on parole of a detainee: 


(i) The nature and number of disciplinary infractions or incident reports received while in custody; 


(ii) The detainee's past history of criminal behavior; 


(iii) Any psychiatric and psychological reports pertaining to the detainee's mental health; 


(iv) Institutional progress relating to participation in work, educational and vocational programs; 


(v) His ties to the United States, such as the number of close relatives residing lawfully here; 


(vi) The likelihood that he may abscond, such as from any sponsorship program; and 


(vii) Any other information which is probative of whether the detainee is likely to adjust to life in a community, is likely to engage in future acts of violence, is likely to engage in future criminal activity, or is likely to violate the conditions of his parole. 


(4) *Procedure for review.* The following procedures will govern the review process: 


(i) *Record review.* Initially, the Director or a Panel shall review the detainee's file. Upon completion of this record review, the Director or the Panel shall issue a written recommendation that the detainee be released on parole or scheduled for a personal interview. 


(ii) *Personal interview.* If a recommendation to grant parole after only a record review is not accepted or if the detainee is not recommended for release, a Panel shall personally interview the detainee. The scheduling of such interviews shall be at the discretion of the Director. The detainee may be accompanied during the interview by a person of his choice, who is able to attend at the time of the scheduled interview, to assist in answering any questions. The detainee may submit to the Panel any information, either orally or in writing, which he believes presents a basis for release on parole. 


(iii) *Panel recommendation.* Following completion of the interview and its deliberations, the Panel shall issue a written recommendation that the detainee be released on parole or remain in custody pending deportation or pending further observation and subsequent review. This written recommendation shall include a brief statement of the factors which the Panel deems material to its recommendation. The recommendation and appropriate file material shall be forwarded to the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement, to be considered in the exercise of discretion pursuant to ยง 212.12(b). 


(e) *Withdrawal of parole approval.* The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement may, in his or her discretion, withdraw approval for parole of any detainee prior to release when, in his or her opinion, the conduct of the detainee, or any other circumstance, indicates that parole would no longer be appropriate.


(f) *Sponsorship.* No detainee may be released on parole until suitable sponsorship or placement has been found for the detainee. The paroled detainee must abide by the parole conditions specified by the Service in relation to his sponsorship or placement. The following sponsorships and placements are suitable: 


(1) Placement by the Public Health Service in an approved halfway house or mental health project; 


(2) Placement by the Community Relations Service in an approved halfway house or community project; and 


(3) Placement with a close relative such as a parent, spouse, child, or sibling who is a lawful permanent resident or a citizen of the United States. 


(g) *Timing of reviews.* The timing of review shall be in accordance with the following guidelines. 


(1) *Parole revocation cases.* The Director shall schedule the review process in the case of a new or returning detainee whose previous immigration parole has been revoked. The review process will commence with a scheduling of a file review, which will ordinarily be expected to occur within approximately three months after parole is revoked. In the case of a Mariel Cuban who is in the custody of the Service, the Cuban Review Plan Director may, in his or her discretion, suspend or postpone the parole review process if such detainee's prompt deportation is practicable and proper.


(2) *Continued detention cases.* A subsequent review shall be commenced for any detainee within one year of a refusal to grant parole under ยง 212.12(b), unless a shorter interval is specified by the Director. 


(3) *Discretionary reviews.* The Cuban Review Plan Director, in his discretion, may schedule a review of a detainee at any time when the Director deems such a review to be warranted. 


(h) *Revocation of parole.* The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement shall have authority, in the exercise of discretion, to revoke parole in respect to Mariel Cubans. A district director may also revoke parole when, in the district director's opinion, revocation is in the public interest and circumstances do not reasonably permit referral of the case to the Associate Commissioner. Parole may be revoked in the exercise of discretion when, in the opinion of the revoking official: 


(1) The purposes of parole have been served;


(2) The Mariel Cuban violates any condition of parole; 


(3) It is appropriate to enforce an order of exclusion or to commence proceedings against a Mariel Cuban; or 


(4) The period of parole has expired without being renewed. 



---

[N] [52 FR 48802, Dec. 28, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 13870, Mar. 24, 1994; 65 FR 80294, Dec. 21, 2000]




