# § 725.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Agent* means an Agent member of the Facility.


(b) *Agent group* means an Agent member of the Facility consisting of a group of corporate credit unions, one of which is designated as the group's *Agent group representative* and authorized to transact business with the Facility on behalf of the group or any member of the group.


(c) *Agent loan* means an advance of funds by an Agent to a member natural person credit union to meet liquidity needs which have been the basis for a Facility advance.


(d) *Corporate credit union* means a Federal or state-chartered credit union primarily serving other credit unions. A credit union is primarily serving other credit unions when the total dollar amount of the shares and deposits received from other credit unions plus loans to other credit unions exceeds 50 percent of the total dollar amount of all shares and deposits plus loans during the qualifying period, as defined in paragraph (o) of this section.


(e) *Facility* or *Central Liquidity Facility* means the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility.


(f) *Facility advance* means an advance of funds by the Facility to a Regular or Agent member.


(g) *Facility lending officer* means any employee of the Facility or the National Credit Union Administration who has been designated by the NCUA Board as a Facility lending officer.


(h) *Liquid assets* means the following unpledged assets:


(1) Cash on hand;


(2) Share or deposit accounts with remaining maturities of one year or less maintained in corporate credit unions or institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;


(3) Investments in obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, or securities fully guaranteed as to principal and interest thereby, which are authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1757(7) and which have a remaining maturity of one year or less;


(4) Common trust investments and similar investments in funds or securities authorized for Federal credit unions, the objectives of which are to provide daily liquidity for participating credit unions;


(5) Shares in the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility or in special share accounts authorized by § 725.7 of this part;


(6) In the case of a federally insured state-chartered credit union, any asset held in satisfaction of liquidity requirements imposed by applicable state law or regulation; and


(7) Balances maintained by federally insured credit unions in a Federal Reserve bank, or in a pass-through account to a Federal Reserve bank, pursuant to the requirements of section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)).


(i) *Liquidity needs* means:


(1) From April 29, 2020 to December 31, 2021, the needs of credit unions for:


(i) Short-term adjustment credit available to assist in meeting temporary requirements for funds or to cushion more persistent outflows of funds pending an orderly adjustment of credit union assets and liabilities;


(ii) Seasonal credit available for longer periods to assist in meeting seasonal needs for funds arising from a combination of expected patterns of movement in share and deposit accounts and loans; and


(iii) Protracted adjustment credit available in the event of unusual or emergency circumstances of a longer-term nature resulting from national, regional or local difficulties.


(2) After December 31, 2021, the needs of credit unions primarily serving natural persons for:


(i) Short-term adjustment credit available to assist in meeting temporary requirements for funds or to cushion more persistent outflows of funds pending an orderly adjustment of credit union assets and liabilities;


(ii) Seasonal credit available for longer periods to assist in meeting seasonal needs for funds arising from a combination of expected patterns of movement in share and deposit accounts and loans; and


(iii) Protracted adjustment credit available in the event of unusual or emergency circumstances of a longer-term nature resulting from national, regional or local difficulties.


(j) *Management policies* means policies of a credit union with respect to membership, shares, deposits, dividends, interest rates, lending, investing, borrowing, safeguarding of assets, hiring, training and supervision of employees, and general operating and control practices and procedures.


(k) *Member* means a Regular or Agent member of the Facility, unless the context indicates otherwise.


(l) *Member natural person credit union* means a natural person credit union which is a member of an Agent or of any corporate credit union in an Agent group. Member natural person credit unions are not members of the Facility unless they are also Regular members of the Facility.


(m) *Natural person credit union* means a Federal or state-chartered credit union primarily serving natural persons. A credit union is primarily serving natural persons if it is not a corporate credit union as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.


(n) *Paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus* means shares and deposits plus post-closing, undivided earnings. This does not include regular reserves or special reserves required by law, regulation or special agreement between the credit union and its regulator or share insurer. 


(o) *Qualifying Period* means:


(1) For initial qualification, any 7 months out of the 12 months immediately preceding the month in which application is made to become a member of the Facility; and


(2) For qualification during each subsequent calendar year, any 7 months out of the previous calendar year.


(p) *Stock subscription* means the stock subscription required for membership in the Facility. “Total subscribed Facility stock” is the sum of all members' stock subscriptions.



---

[N] [44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 22472, June 16, 1988; 66 FR 65624, Dec. 20, 2001; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019; 85 FR 23735, Apr. 29, 2020; 86 FR 15571, Mar. 24, 2021]




