# ยง 212.6   Ingress and egress.

(a) *Policy in acquiring and granting access.* To assure effective protection, management, and utilization of lands administered by the Forest Service and intermingled and adjacent private and public lands, and for the use and development of the resources upon which communities within or adjacent to the National Forests are dependent, the Chief shall as promptly as is feasible obtain needed access thereto and shall grant appropriate access across National Forest and other lands and easements administered by the Forest Service to intermingled or adjacent landowners. Construction, reconstruction or maintenance of a road or highway requires written authorization. 


(b) *Actual settlers and other persons residing within the National Forests and other areas administered by the Forest Service.* Actual settlers and other persons residing within the National Forests and other areas administered by the Forest Service shall be permitted ingress and egress over the same and use of existing National Forest System roads and trails in order to reach their homes and to utilize their property: Provided, such ingress and egress or use shall conform to rules and regulations governing the protection and administration of the lands and the roads or trails to be used. 


(c) *Others.* Entering upon the National Forests and other lands administered by the Forest Service and use of existing National Forest System roads and trails shall be permitted for all proper and lawful purposes subject to compliance with rules and regulations governing the lands and the roads or trails to be used. 



---

[N] [40 FR 52611, Nov. 11, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 2957, Jan. 14, 1977. Redesignated at 62 FR 58654, Oct. 30, 1997; 66 FR 3217, Jan. 12, 2001]




