# ยง 261a.5   Request for access to records.

(a) *Procedures for making request.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) or (f) of this section, if you (or your guardian) want to learn of the existence of, or to gain access to, your record in a system of records, you may submit a request in writing to the Secretary of the Board, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551.


(2) If you request information contained in a system of records maintained by the Board's OIG, you may submit the request in writing to the Inspector General, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551.


(b) *Contents of request.* Except for requests made under paragraph (f) of this section, your written request must include-


(1) A statement that the request is made pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974;


(2) The name of the system of records you believe contains the record you request, or a concise description of that system of records;


(3) Information necessary to verify your identity pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; and


(4) Any other information that might assist us in identifying the record you seek (*e.g.,* maiden name, dates of employment, *etc.*).


(c) *Verification of identity.* We will require proof of your identity, and we reserve the right to determine whether the proof you submit is adequate. In general, we will consider the following to be adequate proof of identity:


(1) If you are a current or former Board employee, your Board identification card; or


(2) If you are not a current or former Board employee, either


(i) Two forms of identification, including one photo identification, or


(ii) A notarized statement attesting to your identity.


(d) *Verification of identity not required.* We will not require verification of identity when the records you seek are available to any person under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).


(e) *Request for accounting of previous disclosures.* You may request an accounting of previous disclosures of records pertaining to you in a system of records as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c).


(f) *Requests Made by Board Employees.* Unless the Secretary provides and you are notified otherwise, if you are a current or former Board employee, you also may request access to your record in a system of records by appearing in person before or writing directly to the Board office that maintains the record.




