# ยง 58.305   Meaning of words.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning. 


(a) *Butter.* The food product usually known as butter, and which is made exclusively from milk or cream, or both, with or without common salt, with or without additional coloring matter, and containing not less than 80 percent by weight of milkfat, all tolerances having been allowed for. 


(b) *Butteroil.* The food product resulting from the removal of practically all of the moisture and solids-not-fat from butter. It contains not less than 99.6 percent fat and not more than 0.3 percent moisture and not more than 0.1 percent other butter constituents, of which the salt shall be not more than 0.05 percent. Antioxidants permitted to be used are as follows: 


(c) *Anhydrous milkfat.* The food product resulting from the removal of practically all of the moisture and solids-not-fat from pasteurized cream or butter. It contains not less than 99.8 percent fat and not more than 0.1 percent moisture and, when produced from butter, not more than 0.1 percent other butter constituents, of which the salt shall be not more than 0.05 percent. An inert gas may be used to flush air-tight containers before, during, and after filling. Carbon dioxide may not be used for this purpose. 


(d) *Frozen cream.* Sweet cream which has been pasteurized and frozen. It contains approximately 40 percent milkfat. 


(e) *Plastic cream.* Sweet cream which has been pasteurized and contains approximately 80 percent milkfat. 


(f) *Whipped butter.* The food product is made by the uniform incorporation of air or inert gas into butter. 



---

[N] [40 FR 47911, Oct. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 59 FR 1264, Jan. 10, 1994; 60 FR 4825, Jan. 24, 1995]




