# § 1214.1   Definitions.

*Confidential supervisory information* means information prepared or received by FHFA that meets all of the following criteria:


(1) The information is not a document prepared by a regulated entity or the Office of Finance for its own business purposes that is in its possession;


(2) The information is exempt from the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 (1966); and


(3) The information—(i) Consists of reports of examination, inspection and visitation, confidential operating and condition reports, and any information derived from, related to, or contained in such reports, or


(ii) Is gathered by FHFA in the course of any investigation, suspicious activity report, cease-and-desist order, civil money penalty enforcement order, suspension, removal or prohibition order, or other supervisory or enforcement orders or actions taken under the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, Public Law 102-550, 122 Stat. 2654.


*Disclosure* means release or divulgence of information by any person to a person outside of FHFA.


*FHFA employee* means strictly for the purpose of this regulation, any person employed by FHFA, including any current or former officer, intern, agent, contractor or contractor personnel, or detailee of FHFA, and any person employed by the FHFA Office of the Inspector General (FHFA-OIG), including any current or former officer, intern, agent, contractor or contractor personnel, or detailee of FHFA-OIG.


*Non-public information* means information that FHFA has not made public that is created by, obtained by, or communicated to an FHFA employee in connection with the performance of official duties, regardless of who is in possession of the information. This includes confidential supervisory information as defined above. It does not include information or documents that FHFA has disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552; 12 CFR part 1202), or Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a; 12 CFR part 1204). It also does not include specific information or documents that were previously disclosed to the public at large or information or documents that are customarily furnished to the public at large in the course of the performance of official FHFA duties, including but not limited to: Disclosures made by the Director pursuant to 24 CFR subpart F, and any FHFA successor rules; the annual report that FHFA submits to Congress pursuant to the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq.*), press releases, FHFA blank forms, and materials published in the _Federal Register._

*Person* means individual or business entity.




