# § 40.26   General license for possession and storage of byproduct material as defined in this part.

(a) A general license is hereby issued to receive title to, own, or possess byproduct material as defined in this part without regard to form or quantity.


(b) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section applies only: In the case of licensees of the Commission, where activities that result in the production of byproduct material are authorized under a specific license issued by the Commission pursuant to this part, to byproduct material possessed or stored at an authorized disposal containment area or transported incident to such authorized activity: *Provided,* That authority to receive title to, own, or possess byproduct material under this general license shall terminate when the specific license for source material expires, is renewed, or is amended to include a specific license for byproduct material as defined in this part.


(c) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to:


(1) The provisions of parts 19, 20, 21, and §§ 40.1, 40.2a, 40.3, 40.4, 40.5, 40.6, 40.41, 40.46, 40.60, 40.61, 40.62, 40.63, 40.65, 40.71, and 40.81 of part 40 of this chapter; and


(2) The documentation of daily inspections of tailings or waste retention systems and the immediate notification of the appropriate NRC regional office as indicated in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, or the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, of any failure in a tailings or waste retention system that results in a release of tailings or waste into unrestricted areas, or of any unusual conditions (conditions not contemplated in the design of the retention system) that if not corrected could lead to failure of the system and result in a release of tailings or waste into unrestricted areas; and any additional requirements the Commission may by order deem necessary. The licensee shall retain this documentation of each daily inspection as a record for three years after each inspection is documented.


(d) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section shall expire nine months from the effective date of this subparagraph unless an applicable licensee has submitted, pursuant to the provisions of § 40.31 of this part, an application for license renewal or amendment which includes a detailed program for meeting the technical and financial criteria contained in appendix A of this part.



---

[N] [44 FR 50014, Aug. 24, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 12377, Feb. 26, 1980; 45 FR 65531, Oct. 3, 1980; 53 FR 19248, May 27, 1988; 56 FR 40768, Aug. 16, 1991; 73 FR 5720, Jan. 31, 2008]




