# ยง 740.17   Inspection, enforcement and civil penalties.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Where OSM is the regulatory authority, parts 840, 842, 843 and 845 of this chapter shall govern its inspection, enforcement and civil penalty activities with respect to surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Federal lands.


(2) Where the State is the regulatory authority under a cooperative agreement, the State program shall govern inspection, enforcement and civil penalty activities by the regulatory authority with respect to surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Federal lands, while the requirements of part 842, 843 and 845 of this chapter shall govern OSM inspection, enforcement and civil penalty activities conducted in oversight of the State program.


(3) The requirements of this section shall not apply to coal exploration on Federal lands subject to the requirements of 43 CFR parts 3400.


(b) *Right of entry.* (1) Persons engaging in coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Federal lands shall provide access for any authorized officer of OSM, the regulatory authority, and, as applicable, the Bureau of Land Management or the appropriate Federal land management agency to inspect the operations, without advance notice or a search warrant and upon presentation of appropriate credentials, to determine whether the operations are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, notices and orders, and terms and conditions of the permit.


(2) Any authorized representative of the regulatory authority and, as applicable, the Bureau of Land Management may, at reasonable times and without delay, have access to and copy any records and inspect any monitoring equipment or method of operation required under the Act, this subchapter and the permit, lease, license or mining plan in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. 


(3) No search warrant shall be required with respect to any activity under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, except entry into a building without consent of the person in control of the building.


(c) *Inspections.* Inspections shall, to the extent practical, be conducted jointly if more than one government agency is involved. The regulatory authority shall coordinate inspections by Federal agencies and may request the participation of representatives from other Federal agencies when necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter and other applicable Federal laws, regulations and orders.



---

[N] [48 FR 6935, Feb. 16, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 44779, Sept. 30, 1983] 




