# ยง 501.110   Animal feed labeling; collective names for feed ingredients.

(a) An animal feed shall be exempt from the requirements of section 403(i)(2) of the act with respect to its label bearing the common or usual names of the animal feed ingredients listed in paragraph (b) of this section under the following prescribed conditions: 


(1) The animal feed is intended solely for livestock and poultry. 


(2) The label of the animal feed bears the collective name(s) prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section in lieu of the corresponding common or usual names of the individual feed ingredients contained therein. 


(3) The label of the animal feed otherwise conforms to the requirements of section 403(i)(2) of the act. 


(4) The ingredients of any feed listed in paragraph (b) of this section neither contain nor are food additives as defined in section 201(s) of the act unless provided for by and in conformity with applicable regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act. 


(b) Each collective name referred to in this paragraph may be used for the purpose of labeling where one or more of the ingredients listed for that collective name are present. The animal feed ingredients listed under each of the collective names are the products defined by the Association of American Feed Control Officials. The collective names are as follows: 


(1) *Animal protein products* include one or more of the following: Animal products, marine products, and milk products. 


(2) *Forage products* include one or more of the following: Alfalfa meals, entire plant meals, hays, and stem meals. 


(3) *Grain products* include one or more of the following: Barley, grain sorghums, maize (corn), oats, rice, rye, and wheat. 


(4) *Plant protein products* include one or more of the following: Algae meals, coconut meals (copra), cottonseed meals, guar meal, linseed meals, peanut meals, safflower meals, soybean meals, sunflower meals, and yeasts. 


(5) *Processed grain byproducts* include one or more of the following: Brans, brewers dried grains, distillers grains, distillers solubles, flours, germ meals, gluten feeds, gluten meals, grits, groats, hominy feeds, malt sprouts, middlings, pearled, polishings, shorts, and wheat mill run. 


(6) *Roughage products* include one or more of the following: Cobs, hulls, husks, pulps, and straws. 




