# § 301.7803-2   Internal Revenue Service Independent Office of Appeals resolution of Federal tax controversies without litigation.

(a) *Function of the Internal Revenue Service Independent Office of Appeals.* The Internal Revenue Service Independent Office of Appeals (Appeals) resolves Federal tax controversies without litigation on a basis that is fair and impartial to both the Government and the taxpayer, promotes a consistent application and interpretation of, and voluntary compliance with, the Federal tax laws, and enhances public confidence in the integrity and efficiency of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).


(b) *Consideration of a Federal tax controversy by Appeals*—(1) *In general.* The Appeals resolution process is generally available to all taxpayers to resolve Federal tax controversies.


(2) *Definition of Federal tax controversy.* For purposes of this section, a *Federal tax controversy* is defined as a dispute over an administrative determination with respect to a particular taxpayer made by the IRS in administering or enforcing the internal revenue laws, related Federal tax statutes, and tax conventions to which the United States is a party (collectively referred to as internal revenue laws) that arises out of the examination, collection, or execution of other activities concerning the amount or legality of the taxpayer's income, employment, excise, or estate and gift tax liability; a penalty; or an addition to tax under the internal revenue laws. For purposes of this section, a Federal tax controversy includes, for example, a dispute over an administrative determination made by the IRS concerning a taxpayer's proposed deficiency, a taxpayer's claim for credit or refund, the tax-exempt nature of a particular organization, private foundation, or qualified employee plan under the internal revenue laws, or the status of a tax-exempt or other tax-advantaged bond.


(3) *Other administrative determinations treated as Federal tax controversies.* Notwithstanding the definition of a Federal tax controversy in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, disputes over administrative determinations made by the IRS with respect to a particular person regarding the following topics are treated as Federal tax controversies for purposes of this section:


(i) Liabilities and penalties administered by the IRS that are outside the Internal Revenue Code (Code), such as a liability or penalty pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5321 (relating to Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts or Bank Secrecy Act civil penalties);


(ii) A request under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);


(iii) Application to become, or the sanction of, an Electronic Return Originator or Authorized IRS e-file Provider;


(iv) An IRS-proposed determination to a bond issuer that denies a claim for recovery of an asserted overpayment of arbitrage rebate, yield reduction payment, or penalty in lieu of rebate under section 148 of the Code (relating to arbitrage) with respect to tax-exempt bonds or under section 148 as modified by relevant provisions of the Code with respect to other tax-advantaged bonds;


(v) Administrative costs under section 7430 of the Code (relating to awarding of costs and certain fees); or


(vi) Any other topic that the IRS has determined may be considered by Appeals.


(c) *Exceptions to consideration by Appeals.* The following are Federal tax controversies that are excepted from consideration by Appeals or matters or issues that are otherwise ineligible for consideration by Appeals because they are neither a Federal tax controversy nor treated as a Federal tax controversy under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If a matter or issue not eligible for consideration by Appeals is present in a case that otherwise is eligible for consideration by Appeals, the ineligible matter or issue will not be considered by Appeals during resolution of the case. The exceptions are:


(1) Any administrative determination made by the IRS rejecting a position of a taxpayer that the IRS has identified as frivolous for purposes of section 6702(c) of the Code (regarding listing of frivolous positions) and any case solely involving the taxpayer's failure or refusal to comply with the internal revenue laws because of frivolous moral, religious, political, constitutional, conscientious, or similar grounds.


(2) Penalties assessed by the IRS under section 6702 (relating to frivolous tax submissions) or section 6682 of the Code (relating to false information with respect to withholding) or any other penalty imposed for a frivolous position or false information. Appeals, however, may obtain verification that the assessment of the penalties complied with sections 6203 (relating to method of assessment) and 6751(b) (relating to supervisory approval of assessment) of the Code in a collection due process (CDP) hearing under sections 6320 (relating to a hearing upon filing of a notice of lien) and 6330 (relating to a hearing before levy) of the Code. Appeals also may consider a non-frivolous substantive challenge to a section 6702 or section 6682 penalty in a CDP hearing.


(3) Any administrative determination made by the IRS under section 7623 of the Code (relating to awards to whistleblowers).


(4) Any administrative determination issued by an agency other than the IRS, such as a determination by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) concerning an excise tax administered by and within the jurisdiction of TTB.


(5) Any decision made by the IRS not to issue a Taxpayer Assistance Order (TAO) under section 7811 of the Code (relating to TAOs).


(6) Any decision made by the IRS concerning material to be deleted from the text of a written determination pursuant to section 6110 of the Code (relating to public inspection of written determinations) unless the written determination is otherwise being considered by Appeals.


(7) Any denial of access under the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1)).


(8) Any issue resolved in an agreement described in section 7121 of the Code (regarding closing agreements) that the taxpayer entered into with the IRS, and any decision made by the IRS to enter into or not enter into such agreement. Appeals may consider the question of whether an item or items are covered, and how the item or items are covered, in a closing agreement.


(9) Any case in which the IRS erroneously returns or rejects an offer in compromise (OIC) submitted under section 7122 of the Code (relating to compromises) as nonprocessable or no longer processable and the taxpayer requests Appeals consideration to assert that the OIC should be deemed to be accepted under section 7122(f).


(10) Any case in which a criminal prosecution, or a recommendation for criminal prosecution, is pending against the taxpayer for a tax-related offense, except with the concurrence of the Office of Chief Counsel or the Department of Justice, as applicable.


(11) Any issues relating to allocation among different fee payers of the branded prescription drug and health insurance providers fees in section 9008 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), Public Law 111-148 (124 Stat. 119 (2010)), as amended by section 1404 of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), Public Law 111-152 (124 Stat. 1029 (2010)), and section 9010 of PPACA, as amended by section 10905 of PPACA, and as further amended by section 1406 of HCERA.


(12) Any certification or issuance of a notice of certification of a seriously delinquent Federal tax debt to the Department of State under section 7345 of the Code (relating to the revocation or denial of a passport in the case of serious tax delinquencies).


(13) Any issue barred from consideration under section 6320 or section 6330, §§ 301.6320-1 and 301.6330-1, or any other administrative guidance related to CDP hearings or equivalent hearings.


(14) Any case, determination, matter, decision, request, or issue that Appeals lacks the authority to settle. The following is a non-exclusive list of examples:


(i) Any case or issue in a case that has been referred to the Department of Justice.


(ii) Any competent authority case (including a competent authority resolution previously accepted by the taxpayer) under a United States tax treaty that is within the exclusive authority of the United States Competent Authority.


(iii) Any decision of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the Commissioner's delegate to not rescind a penalty under section 6707A of the Code for a non-listed reportable transaction.


(iv) Any request for relief under section 6015 of the Code (relating to relief from joint and several liability on a joint return) when the nonrequesting spouse is a party to a docketed case in the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) and does not agree to granting full or partial relief under section 6015 to the requesting spouse.


(v) Any criminal restitution-based assessment under section 6201(a)(4) of the Code (relating to certain orders of criminal restitution and restriction on challenge of assessment).


(15) Any adverse action related to the initial or continuing recognition of tax-exempt status, an entity's classification as a foundation, the initial or continuing determination of employee plan qualification, or a determination involving an obligation and the issuer of an obligation under section 103 of the Code. The exception in this paragraph (c)(15) applies only if the tax-exempt recognition, classification, determination of employee plan qualification, or determination involving an obligation and the issuer of an obligation under section 103 is based upon a technical advice memorandum issued by an Office of Associate Chief Counsel before an appeal is requested.


(16) Any case docketed in the Tax Court if the notice of deficiency, notice of liability, or final adverse determination letter is based upon a technical advice memorandum issued by an Office of Associate Chief Counsel in that case involving an adverse action described in paragraph (c)(15) of this section.


(17) Any decision by an Office of Associate Chief Counsel regarding whether to issue a letter ruling or the content of a letter ruling. This includes decisions regarding requests for relief under §§ 301.9100-1 through 301.9100-22 and requests for a change in method of accounting. The subject of the letter ruling may be considered by Appeals if all other requirements in this section are met. For example, if an Office of Associate Chief Counsel issues an adverse letter ruling to a taxpayer, the taxpayer cannot immediately appeal the issuance of the adverse letter ruling. If the taxpayer subsequently files a return taking a position that is contrary to the letter ruling and that position is audited by the IRS, Appeals may consider that Federal tax controversy if all other requirements in this section are met.


(18) Any issue based on a taxpayer's argument that a statute violates the United States Constitution unless there is an unreviewable decision from a Federal court holding that the cited statute is unconstitutional. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(18), an argument that a statute violates the United States Constitution includes any argument that a statute is unconstitutional on its face or as applied to a particular person. The exception in this paragraph (c)(18) does not preclude Appeals from considering a Federal tax controversy based on arguments other than the constitutionality of a statute, such as whether the statute applies to the taxpayer's facts and circumstances. For purposes of this section, the phrase *unreviewable decision* is a decision of any Federal court regardless of where the taxpayer resides that can no longer be appealed to any Federal court because all appeals in a case have been exhausted or the time to appeal has expired and no appeal was filed.


(19) Any issue based on a taxpayer's argument that a Treasury regulation is invalid unless there is an unreviewable decision from a Federal court invalidating the regulation as a whole or the provision in the regulation that the taxpayer is challenging. The exception in this paragraph (c)(19) does not preclude Appeals from considering a Federal tax controversy based on arguments other than the validity of a Treasury regulation, such as whether the Treasury regulation applies to the taxpayer's facts and circumstances. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(19), the term *invalid* means any challenge to validity, whether substantively invalid or procedurally invalid in scope. *See* paragraph (c)(20) of this section for definition of the term *procedurally invalid.*

(20) Any issue based on a taxpayer's argument that a notice or revenue procedure published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin is procedurally invalid unless there is an unreviewable decision from a Federal court holding it to be invalid. This exception does not preclude Appeals from considering a Federal tax controversy based on arguments other than the procedural validity of a notice or revenue procedure, such as whether the notice or revenue procedure applies to the taxpayer's facts and circumstances. For purposes of this section, the term *procedurally invalid* is defined as any determination regarding whether a notice or revenue procedure failed to comply with administrative law requirements, such as notice and comment under 5 U.S.C. 553.


(21) Any case or issue designated for litigation, or withheld from Appeals consideration in a Tax Court case, in accordance with guidance regarding designating or withholding a case or issue. For purposes of this section, *designated for litigation* means that the Federal tax controversy, comprising an issue or issues in a case, will not be resolved without a full concession by the taxpayer or by decision of the court.


(22) Any case docketed in the Tax Court if the notice of deficiency, notice of liability, or other determination was issued by Appeals unless the exception in paragraph (f)(1) of this section (regarding when the Tax Court remands a CDP case for reconsideration) applies.


(23) Any case in which timely Appeals consideration must be requested before a petition is filed in the Tax Court because exhaustion of administrative review, including consideration by Appeals, is a prerequisite for the Tax Court to have jurisdiction, and the taxpayer failed to timely request Appeals consideration. For example, Appeals consideration must be requested before a petition is filed in the Tax Court regarding a declaratory judgment request under section 7428 (relating to declaratory judgment on the classification of specified organizations), section 7476 (relating to declaratory judgment on qualification of certain retirement plans), or section 7477 (relating to declaratory judgment on the value of certain gifts) of the Code.


(24) Any administrative determination made by the IRS to deny or revoke a Certified Professional Employer Organization certification.


(d) *Originating office has completed its review*—(1) *In general.* Appeals consideration of a matter or issue is appropriate only after the originating IRS office has completed its action on the Federal tax controversy and issued an administrative determination or a proposed administrative determination accompanied by an offer for consideration by Appeals. If the originating office has not completed its action regarding the Federal tax controversy, the request for Appeals consideration is premature. Appeals may consider the Federal tax controversy if the taxpayer requests consideration after the originating office's action is complete and if all requirements in this section are met.


(2) *Exception for early consideration programs.* If administrative guidance permits the originating office to engage Appeals prior to completing its action regarding the Federal tax controversy, Appeals may consider the Federal tax controversy under the terms of that administrative guidance, such as mediation under a fast track settlement program or early consideration of some issues under an early referral program.


(e) *Procedural and timing requirements are followed*—(1) *In general.* A request for Appeals consideration of a Federal tax controversy must be submitted in the time and manner prescribed in applicable forms, instructions, or other administrative guidance. All procedural requirements must be complied with before Appeals will consider a Federal tax controversy. In addition, there must be sufficient time remaining on the appropriate limitations period for Appeals to consider the Federal tax controversy, as provided in administrative guidance. In a case docketed in the Tax Court, if the Office of Chief Counsel has recalled the case from Appeals or, if not recalled, Appeals has returned the case to the Office of Chief Counsel so that it is received by the Office of Chief Counsel prior to the date of the calendar call for the trial session, further consideration by Appeals will not be available if there is insufficient time for such consideration.


(2) *Example.* The following example illustrates the application of the rule of insufficient time remaining on the limitations periods for Appeals consideration: The IRS examines Taxpayer X's Form 1040, *U.S. Individual Income Tax Return,* and determines a deficiency in income tax due to the IRS disallowing some of the deductions reported on the return. Because the expiration date of the assessment period of limitations with respect to the proposed deficiency is imminent, there is insufficient time for Appeals to receive the case and determine whether the case is susceptible to settlement. Consequently, the IRS issues a notice of deficiency under section 6212 of the Code to Taxpayer X. Under section 6213(a) of the Code, the issuance of this notice suspends the running of the assessment period while a taxpayer seeks judicial review of the notice. Taxpayer X timely files a petition with the Tax Court. After the case is docketed in the Tax Court, Taxpayer X generally would have the opportunity to have Appeals consider the case.


(f) *One opportunity for consideration by Appeals*—(1) *In general.* If a Federal tax controversy is eligible for consideration by Appeals and the procedural and timing requirements are followed, a taxpayer generally has one opportunity for Appeals to consider such matter or issue in the same case for the same period or in any type of future case for the same period, unless the Tax Court remands for reconsideration in a CDP case. Appeals has considered a Federal tax controversy if the Federal tax controversy was before Appeals for consideration and Appeals issued a determination or made a settlement offer, Appeals decided the Federal tax controversy was not susceptible to settlement, or the person who requested consideration was issued and failed to respond to Appeals' communications and as a result of that failure Appeals issued or made a determination. Appeals also has considered a Federal tax controversy if the taxpayer notified the Office of Chief Counsel or the IRS that the taxpayer wanted to discontinue settlement consideration by Appeals or requested to transfer from Appeals to the Office of Chief Counsel settlement consideration of a Federal tax controversy that is currently before the Tax Court.


(2) *Exceptions.* Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, taxpayers retain the opportunity for a traditional appeal after participating in an early consideration program as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section if no agreement was reached between the taxpayer and the IRS originating office. Taxpayers may be able to request post-Appeals mediation under the terms of administrative guidance after a traditional appeal if no agreement was reached between the taxpayer and Appeals. Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1), taxpayers who provide new factual information to the IRS and who meet the conditions and requirements for audit reconsideration or for reconsideration of issues previously considered by Appeals may have an opportunity for Appeals consideration, as provided in administrative guidance.


(g) *Special rules.* The following special rules apply to this section:


(1) *Appeals reconsideration.* Notwithstanding the exception in paragraph (c)(22) of this section, if Appeals issued a notice of deficiency, notice of liability, or other determination without having fully considered one or more issues because of an impending expiration of the statute of limitations on assessment, Appeals may choose to have the Office of Chief Counsel return the case to Appeals for full consideration of the issue or issues once the case is docketed in the Tax Court.


(2) *Coordination between Office of Chief Counsel and Appeals.* Appeals and the Office of Chief Counsel may determine how settlement authority in a Federal tax controversy that is before the Tax Court is transferred between the two offices.


(h) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable to requests for consideration by Appeals made on or after February 14, 2025.





---

[N] [T.D. 10030, 90 FR 3662, Jan. 15, 2025]










