# ยง 474.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the term: 


*Combined energy consumption value* means the weighted average of the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule and the Highway Fuel Economy Driving Schedule energy consumption values (weighted 55/45 percent, respectively), as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with 40 CFR parts 86 and 600. 


*Electric vehicle* means a vehicle that is powered by an electric motor drawing current from rechargeable storage batteries or other portable electrical energy storage devices, provided that: 


(1) Recharge energy must be drawn from a source off the vehicle, such as residential electric service; and 


(2) The vehicle must comply with all provisions of the Zero Emission Vehicle definition found in 40 CFR 88.104-94(g).


*Highway Fuel Economy Driving Schedule energy consumption value* means the average number of watt-hours of electrical energy required for an electric vehicle to travel one mile of the Highway Fuel Economy Driving Schedule, as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency. 


*Petroleum equivalency factor* means the values specified in ยง 474.3, paragraphs (b) through (f) of this part, which incorporate the parameters listed in 49 U.S.C. 32904(a)(2)(B) and are used to calculate petroleum-equivalent fuel economy.










*Petroleum-equivalent fuel economy* means the value, expressed in miles per gallon, that is calculated for an electric vehicle in accordance with ยง 474.3(a) of this part, and reported to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for use in determining the vehicle manufacturer's corporate average fuel economy. 


*Petroleum-powered accessory* means a vehicle accessory (e.g., a cabin heater, defroster, and/or air conditioner) that: 


(1) Uses gasoline or diesel fuel as its primary energy source; and 


(2) Meets the requirements for fuel, operation, and emissions in 40 CFR part 88.104-94(g). 


*Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule energy consumption value* means the average number of Watt-hours of electrical energy required for an electric vehicle to travel one mile of the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule, as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency. 





---

[N] [65 FR 36991, June 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 22059, Mar. 29, 2024]




