# 15.204-2   Part I—The Schedule.

The contracting officer shall prepare the contract Schedule as follows: 


(a) *Section A, Solicitation/contract form.* (1) Optional Form (OF) 308, Solicitation and Offer-Negotiated Acquisition, or Standard Form (SF) 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award, may be used to prepare RFPs. 


(2) When other than OF 308 or SF 33 is used, include the following information on the first page of the solicitation: 


(i) Name, address, and location of issuing activity, including room and building where proposals or information must be submitted. 


(ii) Solicitation number. 


(iii) Date of issuance. 


(iv) Closing date and time. 


(v) Number of pages. 


(vi) Requisition or other purchase authority. 


(vii) Brief description of item or service.


(viii) Requirement for the offeror to provide its name and complete address, including street, city, county, state, and zip code, and electronic address (including facsimile address), if appropriate. 


(ix) Offer expiration date. 


(b) *Section B, Supplies or services and prices/costs.* Include a brief description of the supplies or services; e.g., item number, national stock number/part number if applicable, nouns, nomenclature, and quantities. (This includes incidental deliverables such as manuals and reports.) 


(c) *Section C, Description/specifications/statement of work.* Include any description or specifications needed in addition to Section B (see part 11, Describing Agency Needs). 


(d) *Section D, Packaging and marking.* Provide packaging, packing, preservation, and marking requirements, if any. 


(e) *Section E, Inspection and acceptance.* Include inspection, acceptance, quality assurance, and reliability requirements (see part 46, Quality Assurance). 


(f) *Section F, Deliveries or performance.* Specify the requirements for time, place, and method of delivery or performance (see subpart 11.4, Delivery or Performance Schedules, and 47.301-1). 


(g) *Section G, Contract administration data.* Include any required accounting and appropriation data and any required contract administration information or instructions other than those on the solicitation form. Include a statement that the offeror should include the payment address in the proposal, if it is different from that shown for the offeror. 


(h) *Section H, Special contract requirements.* Include a clear statement of any special contract requirements that are not included in Section I, Contract clauses, or in other sections of the uniform contract format. 




