# ยง 1489.18   Reimbursement procedures.

(a) Participants are required to use the CCC's UES system to request reimbursement for eligible expenditures under RAPP.


(b) All claims for reimbursement shall be submitted by the RAPP Participant's U.S. office to the CCC through the UES system.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) The CCC will not reimburse claims submitted later than 6 months after the expiration date shown in the RAPP Participant's program agreement.


(e) If the CCC overpays a reimbursement claim, then the RAPP Participant shall repay the CCC the amount of the overpayment either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The Participant shall make such payment within 30 calendar days of the date that they discover, or are made aware, of any overpayment. The RAPP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance, in writing, by the CCC.


(f) If a RAPP Participant receives a reimbursement or offsets an advanced payment that is later disallowed, the RAPP Participant shall repay the CCC within 30 days of such disallowance the amount disallowed either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The RAPP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance, in writing, by the CCC.


(g) RAPP funds may be expended by RAPP Participants only on legitimate, approved activities as set forth in the program agreement and approval letter. If a RAPP Participant discovers that RAPP funds have not been properly spent, it shall notify the CCC and shall within 30 calendar days of its discovery repay the CCC the amount owed either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The RAPP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars.


(h) The RAPP Participant shall report any actions that may have a bearing on the propriety of any claims for reimbursement in writing to CCC.






