# § 2520.103-10   Annual report financial schedules.

(a) *General.* The administrator of a plan filing an annual report pursuant to § 2520.103-1(a)(2), the report for a group insurance arrangement pursuant to § 2520.103-2, or the report for a defined contribution group (DCG) reporting arrangement pursuant to § 2520.103-14, shall, as provided in the instructions to the Form 5500 “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan,” include as part of the report the separate financial schedules described in paragraph (b) of this section.






(b) *Schedules*—(1) *Assets held for investment.* (i) A schedule of all assets held for investment purposes at the end of the plan year (see § 2520.103-11) with assets aggregated and identified by: 


(A) Identity of issue, borrower, lessor or similar party to the transaction (including a notation as to whether such party is known to be a party in interest); 


(B) Description of investment including maturity date, rate of interest, collateral, par, or maturity value; 


(C) Cost; and 


(D) Current value, and, in the case of a loan, the payment schedule. 


(ii) Except as provided in the Form 5500 and the instructions thereto, in the case of assets or investment interests of two or more plans maintained in one trust, all entries on the schedule of assets held for investment purposes that relate to the trust shall be completed by including the plan's allocable portion of the trust. 


(2) *Assets acquired and disposed within the plan year.* (i) A schedule of all assets acquired and disposed of within the plan year (see § 2520.103-11) with assets aggregated and identified by: 


(A) Identity of issue, borrower, issuer or similar party; 


(B) Descriptions of investment including maturity date, rate of interest, collateral, par, or maturity value; 


(C) Cost of acquisitions; and 


(D) Proceeds of dispositions. 


(ii) Except as provided in the Form 5500 and the instructions thereto, in the case of assets or investment interests of two or more plans maintained in one trust, all entries on the schedule of assets held for investment purposes that relate to the trust shall be completed by including the plan's allocable portion of the trust. 


(3) *Party in interest transactions.* A schedule of each transaction involving a person known to be a party in interest except do not include: 


(i) A transaction to which a statutory exemption under part 4 of title I applies; 


(ii) A transaction to which an administrative exemption under section 408(a) of the Act applies; or 


(iii) A transaction to which the exemptions of section 4975(c) or 4975(d) of the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26 of the United States Code) applies. 


(4) *Obligations in default.* A schedule of all loans or fixed income obligations which were in default as of the end of the plan year or were classified during the year as uncollectible. 


(5) *Leases in default.* A schedule of all leases which were in default or were classified during the year as uncollectible. 


(6) *Reportable transactions.* A schedule of all reportable transactions as defined in § 2520.103-6. 




(c) *Presentation of investment assets in commingled trusts and direct filing entities (DFEs).* (1) Except as provided in the Form 5500 and the instructions thereto or for filings by direct filing entities (including DCG reporting arrangements), in the case of assets or investment interests of two or more plans maintained in one trust, entries on the schedule of assets held for investment purposes at the end of the plan year and the schedule of assets acquired and disposed of during the plan year shall be completed by including the plan's allocable portion of the trust.


(2) In the case of direct filing entities (including DCG reporting arrangements) required to file a schedule of assets held for investment purposes at the end of the plan year and the schedule of assets acquired and disposed of during the plan year, the entries on the schedules shall be completed by including the assets held by the DFE or held in the DCG reporting arrangement's trust or trusts for the individual plans that report in the DCG, and shall include the number of plans with an allocable interest in each listed investment.








(d) *Format requirements for certain schedules.* See the instructions to the Form 5500 “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan” as to the format requirement for the schedules referred to in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(6) of this section. 



---

[N] [65 FR 21083, Apr. 19, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 11811, Feb. 24, 2023]




