# § 63.2520   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 11 to this subpart that applies to you. 


(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report by the date in table 11 to this subpart and according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2445 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first 6 months after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2445. 


(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than August 31 or February 28, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first reporting period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. 


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than August 31 or February 28, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period. 


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(c) *Precompliance report.* You must submit a precompliance report to request approval for any of the items in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. We will either approve or disapprove the report within 90 days after we receive it. If we disapprove the report, you must still be in compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards in this subpart by the compliance date. To change any of the information submitted in the report, you must notify us 60 days before the planned change is to be implemented.


(1) Requests for approval to set operating limits for parameters other than those specified in §§ 63.2455 through 63.2485 and referenced therein. Alternatively, you may make these requests according to § 63.8(f). 


(2) Descriptions of daily or per batch demonstrations to verify that control devices subject to § 63.2450(k)(6) are operating as designed.


(3) A description of the test conditions, data, calculations, and other information used to establish operating limits according to § 63.2460(c)(3). 


(4) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions in accordance with § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii). This requirement does not apply to calculations of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions as specified in § 63.2465(b), to determinations that the total HAP concentration is less than 50 ppmv, or if you use previous test data to establish the uncontrolled emissions.


(5) The pollution prevention demonstration plan required in § 63.2495(c)(1), if you are complying with the pollution prevention alternative. 


(6) Documentation of the practices that you will implement to minimize HAP emissions from streams that contain energetics and organic peroxides, and rationale for why meeting the emission limit specified in tables 1 through 7 to this subpart would create an undue safety hazard. 


(7) For fabric filters that are monitored with bag leak detectors, an operation and maintenance plan that describes proper operation and maintenance procedures, and a corrective action plan that describes corrective actions to be taken, and the timing of those actions, when the PM concentration exceeds the set point and activates the alarm. 


(8) For halogen reduction device other than a scrubber, procedures for establishing monitoring parameters as required by § 63.2450(e)(3)(ii).


(d) *Notification of compliance status report.* You must submit a notification of compliance status report according to the schedule in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the notification of compliance status report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2) through (6) of this section.


(1) You must submit the notification of compliance status report no later than 150 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.2445. 


(2) The notification of compliance status report must include the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section. 


(i) The results of any applicability determinations, emission calculations, or analyses used to identify and quantify HAP usage or HAP emissions from the affected source.


(ii) The results of emissions profiles, performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, flare compliance assessments, inspections and repairs, and calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance according to §§ 63.2455 through 63.2485. For performance tests, results must include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures. If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.


(iii) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the operating limits established during the initial compliance demonstrations, including data and calculations to support the levels you establish. 


(iv) All operating scenarios. 


(v) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices. 


(vi) Identification of parts of the affected source subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.2535 and the authority under which you will comply. 


(vii) The information specified in § 63.1039(a)(1) through (3) for each process subject to the work practice standards for equipment leaks in Table 6 to this subpart. 


(viii) Identify storage tanks for which you are complying with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.2470(e). 


(ix) Records as specified in § 63.2535(l)(1) through (3) of process units used to create a PUG and calculations of the initial primary product of the PUG.


(3) For flares subject to the requirements of § 63.2450(e)(5), you must also submit the information in this paragraph (d)(3) in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for flare monitoring. In lieu of the information required in § 63.987(b) of subpart SS, the supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must include flare design (*e.g.,* steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point); all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the initial visible emissions demonstration required by § 63.670(h) of subpart CC, as applicable; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame or flare flame is absent.


(4) For pressure relief devices subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.2480(e)(3), you must also submit the information listed in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.


(i) A description of the monitoring system to be implemented, including the relief devices and process parameters to be monitored, and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.


(ii) A description of the prevention measures to be implemented for each affected pressure relief device.


(5) For process vents, storage tanks, and equipment leaks subject to the requirements of § 63.2493, you must also submit the information in this paragraph (d)(5) in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date. The supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must identify all process vents, storage tanks, and equipment that are in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550, the method(s) used to control ethylene oxide emissions from each process vent and storage tank (*i.e.,* use of a flare, scrubber, or other control device), the method(s) used to control ethylene oxide emissions from equipment (*i.e.,* subpart UU or H of this part, or 40 CFR part 65, subpart F), and the information specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted ethylene oxide concentration measurements, and the calculations you used to determine the total uncontrolled ethylene oxide mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.


(ii) For storage tanks, include the concentration of ethylene oxide of the fluid stored in each storage tank.


(iii) For equipment, include the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid and the method used to determine it.


(6) For adsorbers subject to the requirements of § 63.2450(e)(7), you must also submit the information listed in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date.


(i) Whether the adsorber cannot be regenerated or is a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated off site.


(ii) The breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life established during the initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber.


(e) *Compliance report.* The compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (17) of this section. On and after August 12, 2023 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under §§ 63.9(i) and 63.10(a) of subpart A, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(1) Company name and address. 


(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (e)(2).


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.


(4) For each SSM during which excess emissions occur, the compliance report must include records that the procedures specified in your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) were followed or documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the SSMP, and include a brief description of each malfunction. On and after August 12, 2023, this paragraph (e)(4) no longer applies; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of the plan must be retained and available on-site for five years after August 12, 2023.


(5) The compliance report must contain the information on deviations, as defined in § 63.2550, according to paragraphs (e)(5)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.


(i) If there are no deviations from any emission limit, operating limit or work practice standard specified in this subpart, include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, or work practice standards during the reporting period. 


(ii) For each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, and work practice standard that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system (CMS) to comply with the emission limit or work practice standard in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.


(A) The total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period.


(B) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(D) of this section, information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(C) Operating logs of processes with batch vents from batch operations for the day(s) during which the deviation occurred, except operating logs are not required for deviations of the work practice standards for equipment leaks.


(D) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B) of this section no longer applies. Instead, report information for each deviation to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each deviation. For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(iii) For each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with an emission limit in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(5)(iii)(A) through (N) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.


(A) The start date, start time, and duration in hours that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(B) The start date, start time, and duration in hours that each CEMS was out-of-control and a description of the corrective actions taken.


(C) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(M) of this section, the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(D) The total duration in hours of all deviations for each CMS during the reporting period, the total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total operating time of the affected source during that reporting period.


(E) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(N) of this section, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(F) The total duration in hours of CMS downtime for each CMS during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the affected source during that reporting period.


(G) An identification of each HAP that is known to be in the emission stream. 


(H) A brief description of the process units. 


(I) The monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s) and the pollutant or parameter monitored.


(J) The date of the latest CMS certification or audit. 


(K) Operating logs of processes with batch vents from batch operations for each day(s) during which the deviation occurred.


(L) The operating day or operating block average values of monitored parameters for each day(s) during which the deviation occurred. 


(M) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(C) of this section no longer applies. Instead, report the number of deviation to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the start date, start time and duration in hours of each deviation. For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(N) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(E) of this section no longer applies. Instead, report a breakdown of the total duration in hours of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(iv) If you documented in your notification of compliance status report that an MCPU has Group 2 batch process vents because the non-reactive HAP is the only HAP and usage is less than 10,000 lb/yr, the total uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the batch process vents in an MCPU will be less than 1,000 lb/yr for the anticipated number of standard batches, or total uncontrolled hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from all batch process vents and continuous process vents in a process are less than 1,000 lb/yr, include the records associated with each calculation required by § 63.2525(e) that exceeds an applicable HAP usage or emissions threshold.


(6) If you use a CEMS, and there were no periods during which it was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), include a statement that there were no periods during which the CEMS was out-of-control during the reporting period. 


(7) Include each new operating scenario which has been operated since the time period covered by the last compliance report and has not been submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report. For each new operating scenario, you must report the information specified in § 63.2525(b) and provide verification that the operating conditions for any associated control or treatment device have not been exceeded and that any required calculations and engineering analyses have been performed. For the purposes of this paragraph (e)(7), a revised operating scenario for an existing process is considered to be a new operating scenario.


(8) For process units added to a PUG, you must report the description and rationale specified in § 63.2525(i)(4). You must report your primary product redeterminations specified in § 63.2525(i)(5).


(9) Except as specified in §§ 63.2450(e)(4), 63.2480(f), and 63.2485(p) and (q) and paragraph (t) of this section, applicable records and information for periodic reports as specified in referenced subparts F, G, H, SS, UU, WW, and GGG of this part and subpart F of 40 CFR part 65.


(10) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(10)(ii) of this section, whenever you make a process change, or change any of the information submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report, that is not within the scope of an existing operating scenario, you must document the change in your compliance report. A process change does not include moving within a range of conditions identified in the standard batch, and a nonstandard batch does not constitute a process change.


(i) The notification must include all of the information in paragraphs (e)(10)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) A description of the process change.


(B) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original notification of compliance status report under paragraph (d) of this section.


(C) Information required by the notification of compliance status report under paragraph (d) of this section for changes involving the addition of processes or equipment at the affected source.


(ii) You must submit a report 60 days before the scheduled implementation date of any of the changes identified in paragraph (e)(10)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section. 


(A) Any change to the information contained in the precompliance report. 


(B) A change in the status of a control device from small to large. 


(C) A change from Group 2 to Group 1 for any emission point except for batch process vents that meet the conditions specified in § 63.2460(b)(6)(i).


(11) For each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(5), the compliance report must include the items specified in paragraphs (e)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.999(c)(3) of subpart SS.


(i) Records as specified in § 63.2525(m)(1) for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame or flare flame is present. Include the start and stop time and date of each 15-minute block.


(ii) Visible emission records as specified in § 63.2525(m)(2)(iv) for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.


(iii) The periods specified in § 63.2525(m)(6). Indicate the date and start and end times for each period, and the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) of subpart CC as applicable.


(iv) For flaring events meeting the criteria in §§ 63.670(o)(3) of subpart CC and 63.2450(e)(5)(v):


(A) The start and stop time and date of the flaring event.


(B) The length of time in minutes for which emissions were visible from the flare during the event.


(C) For steam-assisted, air-assisted, and non-assisted flares, the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for periods of time that the flare tip velocity exceeds the maximum flare tip velocity determined using the methods in § 63.670(d)(2) of subpart CC and the maximum 15-minute block average flare tip velocity in ft/sec recorded during the event.


(D) Results of the root cause and corrective actions analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.


(v) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, the periods of time when the pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header show the burners operating outside the range of the manufacturer's specifications. Indicate the date and start and end times for each period.


(vi) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, the periods of time when the staging valve position indicator monitoring system indicates a stage should not be in operation and is or when a stage should be in operation and is not. Indicate the date and start and end times for each period.


(12) For bypass lines subject to the requirements § 63.2450(e)(6), the compliance report must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.


(13) For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(7), you must report the date of each instance when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.2550(i), is detected between the first and second adsorber and the adsorber is not replaced according to § 63.2450(e)(7)(iii)(A).


(14) For any maintenance vent release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.2450(v)(1), the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(14)(i) through (iv) of this section. For the purposes of this reporting requirement, if you comply with § 63.2450(v)(1)(iv) then you must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.


(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.


(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(iii) The lower explosive limit in percent, vessel pressure in psig, or mass in pounds of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.2450(v)(1)(ii) was used and active purging was initiated while the concentration of the vapor was 10 percent or greater of its LEL, also include the concentration of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.


(iv) An estimate of the mass in pounds of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.


(15) Compliance reports for pressure relief devices subject to the requirements § 63.2480(e) must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(15)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, pursuant to § 63.2480(e)(1), report the instrument readings and dates for all readings of 500 ppmv or greater.


(ii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.2480(e)(2), report the instrument readings and dates of instrument monitoring conducted.


(iii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.2480(e)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the start date, start time, and duration in minutes of the pressure release and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released; the results of any root cause analysis and corrective action analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period; and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.


(16) For each heat exchange system subject to § 63.2490(d) or (e), beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the reporting requirements of § 63.104(f)(2) no longer apply; instead, the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(16)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.2490(d) or (e) during the reporting period;


(ii) The number of heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.2490(d) or (e) at the plant site found to be leaking during the reporting period;


(iii) For each monitoring location where a leak was identified during the reporting period, identification of the monitoring location (e.g., unique monitoring location or heat exchange system ID number), the measured total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with § 63.2490(d)) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with § 63.2490(e)), the date the leak was first identified, and, if applicable, the date the source of the leak was identified;


(iv) For leaks that were repaired during the reporting period (including delayed repairs), identification of the monitoring location associated with the repaired leak, the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with § 63.2490(d)) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with § 63.2490(e)) measured during re-monitoring to verify repair, and the re-monitoring date (*i.e.,* the effective date of repair); and


(v) For each delayed repair, identification of the monitoring location associated with the leak for which repair is delayed, the date when the delay of repair began, the date the repair is expected to be completed (if the leak is not repaired during the reporting period), the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with § 63.2490(d)) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with § 63.2490(e)) and date of each monitoring event conducted on the delayed repair during the reporting period, and an estimate in pounds of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions over the reporting period associated with the delayed repair.


(16) For each heat exchange system subject to § 63.2490(d) or (e), beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the reporting requirements of § 63.104(f)(2) no longer apply; instead, the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(16)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.2490(d) or (e) during the reporting period;


(ii) The number of heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.2490(d) or (e) at the plant site found to be leaking during the reporting period;


(iii) For each monitoring location where a leak was identified during the reporting period, identification of the monitoring location (e.g., unique monitoring location or heat exchange system ID number), the measured total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with § 63.2490(d)) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with § 63.2490(e)), the date the leak was first identified, and, if applicable, the date the source of the leak was identified;


(iv) For leaks that were repaired during the reporting period (including delayed repairs), identification of the monitoring location associated with the repaired leak, the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with § 63.2490(d)) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with § 63.2490(e)) measured during re-monitoring to verify repair, and the re-monitoring date (*i.e.,* the effective date of repair); and


(v) For each delayed repair, identification of the monitoring location associated with the leak for which repair is delayed, the date when the delay of repair began, the date the repair is expected to be completed (if the leak is not repaired during the reporting period), the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate (if complying with § 63.2490(d)) or the measured concentration of the monitored substance(s) (if complying with § 63.2490(e)) and date of each monitoring event conducted on the delayed repair during the reporting period, and an estimate in pounds of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions over the reporting period associated with the delayed repair.


(17) For process vents and storage tanks in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.2493, the compliance report must include:


(i) The periods specified in § 63.2525(s)(4). Indicate the date and start and end times for each period.


(ii) If you obtain an instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv of a leak when monitoring a pressure vessel in accordance with § 63.2493(c)(2), submit a copy of the records specified in § 63.2525(s)(5)(ii).


(iii) Reports for equipment subject to the requirements of § 63.2493 as specified in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(f) *Performance test reports.* Beginning no later than October 13, 2020, you must submit performance test reports in accordance with this paragraph (f). Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.


(g) *CEMS relative accuracy test audit (RATA) Performance evaluation reports.* Beginning no later than October 13, 2020, you must start submitting CEMS RATA performance evaluation reports in accordance with this paragraph (g). Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each continuous monitoring system performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2) that includes a RATA, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38560, July 1, 2005; 71 FR 40336, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49150, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 23871, Apr. 4, 2024]






