# § 100.1102   Annual Marine Events on the Colorado River, between Davis Dam (Bullhead City, Arizona) and Headgate Dam (Parker, Arizona).

(a) *General.* Special local regulations are established for the events listed in Table 1 of this section. Notice of implementation of these special local regulations will be made by publication in the _Federal Register_ 30 days prior to the event for those events without specific dates or by Notice to Mariners 20 Days prior to the event for those events listing a period for which a firm date is identifiable. In all cases, further information on exact dates, times, and other details concerning the number and type of participants and an exact geographical description of the areas are published by the Eleventh Coast Guard District in the Local Notice to Mariners at least 20 days prior to each event. To be placed on the mailing list for Local Notice to Mariners contact: Commander (dpw), Eleventh Coast Guard District, Coast Guard Island, Building 50-2, Alameda, CA 94501-5100. _Note:_ Sponsors of events listed in Table 1 of this section must submit an application each year in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15 to the cognizant Coast Guard Sector Commander no less than 60 days before the start of the proposed event. Sponsors are informed that ample lead time is required to inform all Federal, state, local agencies, and/or other interested parties and to provide the sponsor the best support to ensure the safety of life and property. A Coast Guard-National Park Service agreement exists for both the Glen Canyon and Lake Mead National Recreational Areas; applicants shall contact the cognizant authority for approval of events in these areas.


(b) *Special local regulations.* All persons and vessels not registered with the sponsor as participants or as official patrol vessels are considered spectators. The “official patrol” consists of any Coast Guard, other Federal, state or local law enforcement, and any public or sponsor-provided vessels assigned or approved by the cognizant Coast Guard Sector Commander to patrol each event.


(1) No spectator shall anchor, block, loiter, nor impede the through transit of participants or official patrol vessels in the regulated areas during all applicable effective dates and times unless cleared to do so by or through an official patrol vessel.


(2) When hailed and/or signaled by an official patrol vessel, any spectator located within a regulated area during all applicable effective dates and times shall come to an immediate stop.


(3) The Patrol Commander (PATCOM) is empowered to control the movement of all vessels in the regulated area or to restrict vessels from entering the regulated area. The Patrol Commander shall be designated by the cognizant Coast Guard Sector Commander; will be a U.S. Coast Guard commissioned officer, warrant officer, or petty officer to act as the Sector Commander's official representative; and will be located aboard the lead official patrol vessel. As the Sector Commander's representative, the PATCOM may terminate the event any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life and property. PATCOM may be reached on VHF-FM Channel 13 (156.65MHz) or 16 (156.8MHz) when required, by the call sign “PATCOM.”


(4) The Patrol Commander may, upon request, allow the transit of commercial vessels through regulated areas when it is safe to do so.


(5) The Coast Guard may be assisted by other Federal, state, or local agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2013-0361, 79 FR 6462, Feb. 4, 2014, as amended by USCG-2020-0217, 85 FR 37341, June 22, 2020]









