# § 1484.10   General purpose and scope.

(a) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the Commodity Credit Corporation's (CCC) operation of the Foreign Market Development (FMD) Cooperator program.


(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on “Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards” in 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.


(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this subpart, applies to the Cooperator program.


(3) In addition to the provisions of this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the Cooperator program, to the extent that these regulations do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part. The provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 *et seq.*) and any other statutory or regulatory provisions that are generally applicable to CCC also apply to the Cooperator program.


(c) Under the Cooperator program, CCC enters into agreements with eligible nonprofit U.S. trade organizations to share the costs of certain overseas marketing and promotion activities that are intended to create, maintain, or expand foreign markets for U.S. agricultural commodities. When considering eligible nonprofit U.S. trade organizations, CCC generally gives priority to organizations that are nationwide in membership and scope and have the broadest producer representation and affiliated industry participation of the commodity being promoted. Agreements involve the promotion of agricultural commodities on a generic basis. CCC does not provide brand promotion assistance to Cooperators under this program. Agreements may not involve activities targeted directly toward consumers purchasing as individuals. Activities must contribute to the creation, maintenance, or growth of demand for U.S. agricultural commodities and must generally address long-term foreign import constraints and export growth opportunities by focusing on matters such as reducing infrastructural or historical market impediments, improving processing capabilities, modifying codes and standards, and identifying new markets or new applications or uses for the agricultural commodity in the foreign market.


(d) The Cooperator program generally operates on a reimbursement basis.


(e) CCC policy is to ensure that benefits generated by Cooperator agreements are broadly available throughout the relevant agricultural sector and no one entity gains an undue advantage or sole benefit from program activities. CCC also endeavors to enter into Cooperator agreements covering a broad array of agricultural commodity sectors. The Cooperator program is administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) on behalf of CCC.


(f) The paperwork and recordkeeping requirements imposed by this part have been approved by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. OMB has assigned control number 0551-0026 for this information collection.




