# § 512.561   Reconsideration review processes.

(a) *Applicability of this section.* This section is applicable only where section 1869 of the Act has been waived or is not applicable for TEAM participants. This section is only applicable to TEAM participants.


(b) *Right to reconsideration.* The TEAM participant may request reconsideration of a determination made by CMS only if such reconsideration is not precluded by section 1115A(d)(2) of the Act or this subpart.


(1) A request for reconsideration by the TEAM participant must satisfy the following criteria:


(i) The request must be submitted to a designee of CMS (“Reconsideration Official”) who—


(A) Is authorized to receive such requests; and


(B) Did not participate in the determination that is the subject of the reconsideration request or, if applicable, the notice of calculation error process.


(ii) The request must include a copy of the initial determination issued by CMS and contain a detailed, written explanation of the basis for the dispute, including supporting documentation.


(iii) The request must be made within 30 days of the date of the initial determination for which reconsideration is being requested via email to an address as specified by CMS.


(2) Requests that do not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are denied.


(3) Within 10 business days of receiving a request for reconsideration, the Reconsideration Official sends the parties a written acknowledgement of receipt of the reconsideration request. This acknowledgement sets forth the following:


(i) The review procedures.


(ii) A schedule that permits each party to submit position papers and supporting documentation in support of the party's position for consideration by the reconsideration official.


(4) The TEAM participant must satisfy the notice of calculation error requirements specified in this part before submitting a reconsideration request under paragraph (b) of this section.


(c) *Standards for reconsideration.* (1) The parties must continue to fulfill all responsibilities and obligations under TEAM during the course of any dispute arising under this part.


(2) The reconsideration consists of a review of documentation that is submitted timely and in accordance with the standards specified by the reconsideration official.


(3) The burden of proof is on the TEAM participant to demonstrate to the reconsideration official with clear and convincing evidence that the determination is inconsistent with the terms of this subpart.


(d) *Reconsideration determination.* (1) The reconsideration determination is based solely upon—


(i) Position papers and supporting documentation that are timely submitted to the reconsideration official per the schedule defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) and meet the standards for submission under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and


(ii) Documents and data that were timely submitted to CMS in the required format before CMS made the determination that is the subject of the reconsideration request.


(2) The reconsideration official issues the reconsideration determination to CMS and to the TEAM participant in writing.


(3) Absent unusual circumstances, in which case the reconsideration official reserves the right to an extension upon written notice to the TEAM participant, the reconsideration determination is issued within 60 days of receipt of timely filed position papers and supporting documentation per the schedule defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(4) The reconsideration determination is final and binding 30 days after its issuance, unless the TEAM participant or CMS timely requests review of the reconsideration determination in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(e) *CMS Administrator review.* The TEAM participant or CMS may request that the CMS Administrator review the reconsideration determination.


(1) The request must be made via email within 30 days of the date of the reconsideration determination to the address specified by CMS.


(2) The request must include a copy of the reconsideration determination and a detailed written explanation of why the TEAM participant or CMS disagrees with the reconsideration determination.


(3) The CMS Administrator promptly sends the parties a written acknowledgement of receipt of the request for review.


(4) The CMS Administrator sends the parties notice of the following:


(i) Whether the request for review is granted or denied.


(ii) If the request for review is granted, the review procedures and a schedule that permits each party to submit a brief in support of the party's position for consideration by the CMS Administrator.


(5) If the request for review is denied, the reconsideration determination is final and binding as of the date the request for review is denied.


(6) If the request for review is granted—


(i) The record for review consists solely of—


(A) Timely submitted briefs and the evidence contained in the record of the proceedings before the reconsideration official; and


(B) Evidence as set forth in the documents and data described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section;


(ii) The CMS Administrator reviews the record and issues to CMS and to the TEAM participant a written determination; and


(iii) The written determination of the CMS Administrator is final and binding as of the date the written determination is sent.




