# § 1237.4   What definitions apply to this part?

(a) See § 1220.18 of this subchapter for definitions of terms used throughout Subchapter B, including part 1237.


(b) As used in part 1237—


*Aerial photographic records* means film-based images of the surface of the earth, of other planetary bodies, or of the atmosphere that have been taken from airborne vehicles or satellites. They include vertical and oblique aerial negative film taken from conventional aircraft as well as copy negatives, internegatives, rectified negatives, and annotated and other prints from these negatives. Also included are infrared, ultraviolet, multispectral, video, and radar imagery that has been converted to a film base. These records also include the relevant index system in whatever form it may exist such as mosaics, flight-line overlays or annotated maps, or electronic data bases capturing the latitude and longitude (or other coordinate-based location data) of individual aerial photographic center points.


*Architectural and engineering records* means graphic records that depict the proposed and actual construction of stationary structures, such as buildings, bridges, and canals as well as movable objects, such as ships, aircraft, vehicles, weapons, machinery, and equipment. These records are also known as design and construction drawings and include closely related indexes and written specifications.


*Audiovisual* means any pictorial or aural means of communicating information, e.g., photographic prints, negatives, slides, digital images, sound recordings, and moving images.


*Audiovisual equipment* means equipment used for recording, producing, duplicating, processing, broadcasting, distributing, storing, or exhibiting audiovisual materials or for providing any audiovisual services.


*Audiovisual production* means an organized and unified presentation, developed according to a plan or script, containing visual imagery, sound, or both, and used to convey information. An audiovisual production generally is a self-contained presentation.


*Audiovisual records* means records in pictorial or aural form, including still photographs and motion media (*i.e.,* moving images whether on motion picture film or as video recordings), sound recordings, graphic works (e.g., printed posters), mixed media, and related finding aids and production files.


*Cartographic records* means graphic representations drawn to scale of selected cultural and physical features of the surface of the earth, of other planetary bodies, and of the atmosphere. They include maps, charts, photomaps, orthophotomaps and images, atlases, cartograms, globes, and relief models. Related records are those that are integral to the map-making process, such as field survey notes, geodetic controls, map history case files, source material, indexes, and finding aids.




