# ยง 52.2420   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth the applicable State implementation plan for Virginia under section 110 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7410 and 40 CFR part 51 to meet national ambient air quality standards.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with an EPA approval date prior to July 1, 2016, were approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Entries in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with the EPA approval dates after July 1, 2016 for the Commonwealth of Virginia, have been approved by EPA for inclusion in the State implementation plan and for incorporation by reference into the plan as it is contained in this section, and will be considered by the Director of the Federal Register for approval in the next update to the SIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region III certifies that the materials provided by EPA at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated Commonwealth rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the state implementation plan as of the dates referenced in paragraph (b)(1).


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference into the state implementation plan may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. To obtain the material, please call the Regional Office at (215) 814-3376. You may also inspect the material with an EPA approval date prior to July 1, 2016 for the Commonwealth of Virginia at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(c) *EPA-Approved regulations.*

(d) *EPA-Approved State Source Specific Requirements*

(e)* EPA-approved non-regulatory and quasi-regulatory material.*

(1) *Non-regulatory material.*

(2) *Documents incorporated by reference in regulation 9VAC5-20-2*1.




---

[N] [69 FR 54218, Sept. 8, 2004]


