# § 1919.2   Definition of terms.

(a) *Vessel* means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water, including special-purpose floating structures not primarily designed for or used as a means of transportation on water. 


(b) Except as otherwise noted, *cargo gear,* as used in subparts B through E of this part, includes that gear forming a part of a vessel's equipment which is used for the handling of cargo other than bulk liquids, but does not include gear which is used only for handling or holding hoses, handling ships' stores, or handling the gangway, or boom conveyor belt. 


(c) With reference to equipment covered by this part— 


(1) *Derrick* means: 


(i) When applied to vessels' cargo handling gear, a mechanical device for lifting, including a boom which is suspended at its head by a topping lift from a mast, king post, or similar structure, controlled in the horizontal plane by vangs, and used either singly or in pairs with married falls; 


(ii) When applied to shore-based material handling devices, a mechanical device intended for lifting, with or without a boom supported at its head by a topping lift from a mast, fixed A frame, or similar structure. The mast or equivalent member may or may not be supported by guys or braces. The boom, where fitted, may or may not be controlled in the horizontal plane by guys (vangs). The term includes shear legs. 


(2) *Crane* means a mechanical device, intended for lifting or lowering a load and moving it horizontally, in which the hoisting mechanism is an integral part of the machine. A crane may be a fixed or mobile machine. 


(3) *Bulk cargo spout* means a spout which may or may not be telescopic and may or may not have removable sections, but is suspended over the vessel from some overhead structure by wire rope or other means. Such a spout is often used with a “thrower” or “trimming machine”. A grain loading spout is an example of those covered by this definition. 


(4) *Bulk cargo sucker* means a pneumatic conveyor which utilizes a spoutlike device, which may be adjustable vertically and/or laterally, and which is suspended over a vessel from some overhead structure by wire rope or other means. An example of an installation of this nature is the “grain sucker” used to discharge grain from barges. 


(d) *Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or his authorized representative. 


(e) *Administration* means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. 


(f) *Person* includes any individual, partnership, corporation, agency, association, or organization. 


(g) *Competent person* means: 


(1) An individual qualified to perform gear certification functions with respect to vessels' cargo handling gear, as specifically set forth in § 1919.37. 


(2) An individual qualified under the provisions of subparts F and G of this part to perform gear certification functions with respect to shore-based material handling devices. 


(h) *Ton* means a ton of 2,240 pounds when applied to vessels' cargo handling gear, and a ton of 2,000 pounds when applied to shore-based material handling devices or to shore-type cranes permanently mounted aboard barges or other vessels employed in domestic trade and designed on the basis of the 2,000-pound ton. Capacity ratings may be stated in pounds. 


(i) *Nondestructive examination* means examination of structure or parts by electronic, ultrasonic, or other nondestructive examination suitable for the purpose. 




