# § 429.35   Compact fluorescent lamps.

(a) *Determination of Represented Value.* Manufacturers must determine represented values, which include the certified ratings, for each basic model of compact fluorescent lamp by testing, in conjunction with the following sampling provisions:


(1) *Units to be tested.* (i) The requirements of § 429.11(a) are applicable except that the sample must be comprised of production units; and


(ii)(A) For each basic model of integrated compact fluorescent lamp, the minimum number of units tested shall be no less than 10 units when testing for the initial lumen output, input power, initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, lifetime, CCT, CRI, power factor, and standby mode power. If more than 10 units are tested as part of the sample, the total number of units must be a multiple of 2. The same sample of units must be used as the basis for representations for initial lumen output, input power, initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, lifetime, CCT, CRI, power factor, and standby mode power. No less than three units from the same sample of units must be used when testing for the start time. Exactly six unique units (*i.e.,* units that have not previously been tested under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) but are representative of the same basic model tested under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)) must be used for rapid cycle stress testing.


(B) For each basic model of non-integrated compact fluorescent lamp, the minimum number of units tested shall be no less than 10 units when testing for the initial lumen output, input power, initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, lifetime, CCT, and CRI. If more than 10 units are tested as part of the sample, the total number of units must be a multiple of 2. The same sample of units must be used as the basis for representations for initial lumen output, input power, initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, lifetime, CCT, and CRI.


(iii) For each basic model, a sample of sufficient size shall be randomly selected and tested to ensure that:


(A) Represented values of initial lumen output, initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, CRI, power factor, or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values must be less than or equal to the lower of:


(*1*) The mean of the sample,


Or,


(*2*) The lower 97.5-percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.95,


(B) Represented values of input power, standby mode power, start time or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values must be greater than or equal to the higher of:


(*1*) The mean of the sample,


Or,


(*2*) The upper 97.5-percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.05,


(C) The represented value of CCT must be equal to the mean of the sample,


(D) The represented value of lifetime must be equal to or less than the median time to failure of the sample (calculated as the arithmetic mean of the time to failure of the two middle sample units when the numbers are sorted in value order).


(E) The represented value of the results of rapid cycle stress testing must be


(*1*) Expressed in the number of surviving units and


(*2*) Based on a lifetime value that is equal to or greater than the represented value of lifetime.


(2) The represented value of life (in years) of a compact fluorescent lamp must be calculated by dividing the represented lifetime of a compact fluorescent lamp as determined in (a)(1) of this section by the estimated annual operating hours as specified in 16 CFR 305.15(b)(3)(iii).


(3) The represented value of the estimated annual energy cost for a compact fluorescent lamp, expressed in dollars per year, must be the product of the input power in kilowatts, an electricity cost rate as specified in 16 CFR 305.15(b)(1)(ii), and an estimated average annual use as specified in 16 CFR 305.15(b)(1)(ii).


(4) For compliance with standards specified in § 430.32(u) as it appeared in 10 CFR parts 200-499 edition revised as of January 1, 2016, initial lamp efficacy may include a 3 percent tolerance added to the value determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(A) of this section.


(5) The represented value of lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime must be based on a lifetime value that is equal to or greater than the represented value of lifetime.


(6) Estimated values may be used for representations when initially testing a new basic model or when new/additional testing is required.


(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to compact fluorescent lamps; and


(2) Values reported in certification reports are represented values. Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following public product-specific information:


(i) For each basic model of medium base CFL when certifying compliance to the standards in § 430.32(u) as it appeared in 10 CFR parts 200-499 edition revised as of January 1, 2016, the testing laboratory's ILAC accreditation body's identification number or other approved identification assigned by the ILAC accreditation body, the date of first manufacture, the seasoning time in hours (h), the initial lumen output in lumens (lm), the input power in watts (W), the initial lamp efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W), the number of sample units replaced during the seasoning period within each unique sample set used in determining the represented value, the lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime in percent (%) (and whether value is estimated), the lifetime in hours (h) (and whether value is estimated), life in years (and whether value is estimated), the lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours in percent (%), and the results of rapid cycle stress testing in number of units passed. or the initial certification of new basic models or any subsequent certification based on new testing, estimates of lifetime, life, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, and rapid cycle stress test surviving units may be reported (if indicated in the certification report) until testing is complete. When reporting estimated values, the certification report must specifically describe the prediction method, which must be generally representative of the methods specified in appendix W. Manufacturers are required to maintain records in accordance with § 429.71 of the development of all estimated values and any associated initial test data.


(ii) For each basic model of integrated CFL when certifying compliance with general service lamp energy conservation standards, the testing laboratory's ILAC accreditation body's identification number or other identification assigned by the ILAC accreditation body, the date of first manufacture, a statement that the compact fluorescent lamp is integrated, the seasoning time in hours (h), the initial lumen output in lumens (lm), the input power in watts (W), the initial lamp efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W), the CCT in kelvin (K), CRI, the lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours in percent (%), the lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime in percent (%) (and whether value is estimated), start time in milliseconds, power factor, standby mode energy consumption in watts (W), the results of rapid cycle stress testing in number of units passed, the lifetime in hours (h) (and whether value is estimated), life in years (and whether value is estimated), and the number of sample units replaced during the seasoning period within the sample set used in determining the represented value. Estimates of lifetime, life, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, and rapid cycle stress test surviving units may be reported (if indicated in the certification report) until testing is complete. When reporting estimated values, the certification report must specifically describe the prediction method, which must be generally representative of the methods specified in appendix W. Manufacturers are required to maintain records in accordance with § 429.71 of the development of all estimated values and any associated initial test data.


(iii) For each basic model of non-integrated CFL when certifying compliance with general service lamp energy conservation standards, the testing laboratory's ILAC accreditation body's identification number or other identification assigned by the ILAC accreditation body, the date of first manufacture, a statement that the compact fluorescent lamp is non-integrated, the initial lumen output in lumens (lm), the input power in watts (W), the initial lamp efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W), the CCT in kelvin (K), CRI, the lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime in percent (%) (and whether value is estimated), the lifetime in hours (h) (and whether value is estimated), and the number of sample units replaced during the seasoning period within each unique sample set used in determining the represented value. Estimates of lifetime and lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime may be reported (if indicated in the certification report) until testing is complete. When reporting estimated values, the certification report must specifically describe the prediction method, which must be generally representative of the methods specified in appendix W. Manufacturers are required to maintain records in accordance with § 429.71 of the development of all estimated values and any associated initial test data.


(c) *Rounding requirements.* For represented values,


(1) Round input power to the nearest tenth of a watt.


(2) Round lumen output to three significant digits.


(3) Round initial lamp efficacy to the nearest tenth of a lumen per watt.


(4) Round lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours to the nearest tenth of a percent.


(5) Round lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime to the nearest tenth of a percent.


(6) Round CRI to the nearest whole number.


(7) Round power factor to the nearest hundredths place.


(8) Round lifetime to the nearest whole hour.


(9) Round CCT to the nearest 100 kelvin (K).


(10) Round standby mode power to the nearest tenth of a watt; and


(11) Round start time to the nearest whole millisecond.



---

[N] [81 FR 59415, Aug. 29, 2016]




