# § 1.48E-5   Greenhouse gas emissions rates for qualified facilities under section 48E.

(a) *In general.* Section 48E(b)(3)(B)(ii) provides that rules similar to the rules of section 45Y(b)(2) regarding greenhouse emissions rates apply for purposes of section 48E. Paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section thus provide that the definitions and rules regarding greenhouse gas emissions rate requirements (as determined under rules provided in § 1.45Y-5) apply for purposes of section 48E and this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules related to provisional emissions rates for purposes of section 48E and this section. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules for determining an anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate. Paragraph (i) of this section provides rules regarding reliance on the annual publication of emissions rates and provisional emissions rates. Finally, paragraph (j) of this section provides rules regarding substantiation requirements.


(b) *Definitions.* The definitions provided in § 1.45Y-5(b) apply for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(c) *Non-C&G Facilities.* The rules provided in § 1.45Y-5(c) apply for purposes of determining greenhouse gas emissions rates for Non-C&G Facilities for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(d) *C&G Facilities.* The rules provided in § 1.45Y-5(d) apply for purposes of determining greenhouse gas emissions rates for C&G Facilities for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(e) *Use of methane from certain sources to produce electricity.* The rules provided in § 1.45Y-5(e) regarding the use of methane from certain sources to produce electricity apply for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(f) *Carbon capture and sequestration.* The rules provided in § 1.45Y-5(f) regarding carbon capture and sequestration apply for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(g) *Annual publication of emissions rates.* The rules provided in § 1.45Y-5(g) regarding the annual publication of a table (Annual Table) that sets forth the greenhouse gas emissions rates for types or categories of facilities apply for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(h) *Provisional emissions rates*—(1) *In general.* In the case of any facility for which an emissions rate has not been established by the Secretary, a taxpayer that owns such facility may file a petition with the Secretary for determination of the emissions rate with respect to such facility (Provisional Emissions Rate or PER). A PER must be determined and obtained under the rules of this section.


(2) *Rate not established.* An emissions rate has not been established by the Secretary for a facility for purposes of sections 45Y(b)(2)(C)(ii) and 48E(b)(3)(B)(ii) if such facility is not described in the Annual Table. If a taxpayer's request for an emissions value pursuant to paragraph (h)(5) of this section is pending at the time such facility is or becomes described in the Annual Table, the taxpayer's request for an emissions value will be automatically denied.


(3) *Process for filing a PER petition.* To file a PER petition with the Secretary, a taxpayer must submit a PER petition by attaching it to the taxpayer's Federal income tax return or Federal return, as appropriate, for the taxable year in which the taxpayer claims the section 48E credit with respect to the facility to which the PER petition relates. The PER petition must contain an emissions value and, if applicable, the associated letter from DOE. An emissions value may be obtained from DOE or by using the designated LCA model in accordance with paragraph (h)(6) of this section. An emission value obtained from DOE will be based on an analytical assessment of the emissions rate associated with the facility performed by one or more of the National Laboratories, in consultation with other Federal agency experts as appropriate, consistent with this section. A taxpayer must retain in its books and records the application and correspondence to and from DOE including a copy of the taxpayer's request to DOE for an emissions value and any information provided by the taxpayer to DOE pursuant to the emissions value request process provided in paragraph (h)(5) of this section. Alternatively, an emissions value can be determined by the taxpayer for a facility using the most the recent version of an LCA model, as of the time the PER petition is filed, that has been designated by the Secretary for such use under paragraph (h)(6) of this section. If an emissions value is determined using the designated LCA model under paragraph (h)(6) of this section, a taxpayer is required to provide to the IRS information to support its determination in the form and manner prescribed in IRS forms or instructions or in publications or guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. *See* § 601.601 of this chapter. A taxpayer may not request an emissions value from DOE for a facility for which an emissions value can be determined using the most recent version of an LCA model or models designated for such use under paragraph (h)(6) of this section.


(4) *PER determination.* Upon the IRS's acceptance of the taxpayer's return to which a PER petition is attached, the emissions value of the facility specified on such petition is deemed accepted. A taxpayer can rely upon an emissions value provided by DOE for purposes of claiming a section 48E credit, provided that any information, representations, or other data provided to DOE in support of the request for an emissions value are accurate. If applicable, a taxpayer may rely upon an emissions value determined for a facility using the LCA model designated under paragraph (h)(6) of this section, provided that any information, representations, or other data used to obtain such emissions value are accurate. The IRS's deemed acceptance of an emissions value is the Secretary's determination of the PER. However, the taxpayer must also comply with all applicable requirements for the section 48E credit and any information, representations, or other data supporting an emissions value are subject to later examination by the IRS.


(5) *Emissions value request process.* An applicant that submits a request for an emissions value must follow the procedures specified by DOE to request and obtain such emissions value. Emissions values will be determined consistent with the rules provided in this section. An applicant can request an emissions value from DOE only after a front-end engineering and design (FEED) study or similar indication of project maturity, as determined by DOE, such as the completion of a project specification and cost estimation sufficient to inform a final investment decision for the facility. DOE may decline to review applications that are not responsive, including those applications that relate to a facility described in the Annual Table (consistent with paragraph (h)(2) of this section) or a facility for which an emissions value can be determined by an LCA model under paragraph (h)(6) of this section (consistent with paragraph (h)(3) of this section), or applications that are incomplete. Applicants must follow DOE's guidance and procedures for requesting and obtaining an emissions value from DOE. DOE will publish this guidance and procedures, including a process for, under limited circumstances, a revision to DOE's initial assessment of an emissions value on the basis of revised technical information or facility design and operation.


(6) *LCA model for determining an emissions value for C&G Facilities.* The rules provided in § 1.45Y-5(h)(6) regarding the designation of an LCA model or models for determining an emissions value for C&G Facilities apply for purposes of section 48E and this section.


(7) *Effect of PER.* A taxpayer who files for a PER must use a PER determined by the Secretary to determine eligibility for the section 48E credit, provided all other requirements of section 48E are met. The Secretary's PER determination is not an examination or inspection of books of account for purposes of section 7605(b) of the Code and does not preclude or impede the IRS (under section 7605(b) or any administrative provisions adopted by the IRS) from later examining a return or inspecting books or records with respect to any taxable year for which the section 48E credit is claimed. Further, a PER determination does not signify that the IRS has determined that the requirements of section 48E have been satisfied for any taxable year.


(i) *Determining anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate*—(1) *In general.* A facility's anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate must be objectively determined based on an examination of all the facts and circumstances. Certain Non-C&G Facilities, such as the facilities described in § 1.45Y-5(c)(2), may have an anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero based on the technology and practices they rely upon to generate electricity. For facilities that require the use of certain fuel sources, which may vary, or carbon capture and sequestration, to generate electricity with a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero, objective indicia that such facilities will use such fuel sources or operate such carbon capture equipment, as applicable, in a manner that results in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero for at least 10 years beginning from the date the facility is placed in service are required to establish a reasonable expectation that the combination of fuel, type of facility, and practice will result in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero. Taxpayers must attest under penalty of perjury that the anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate as determined under the statute and these final regulations is not greater than zero. A facility subject to legally binding Federal or State permit conditions requiring that the facility operate in a manner that would be incompatible with a greenhouse gas emissions rate of not greater than zero is not a facility for which the anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate is not greater than zero.


(2) *Examples of objective indicia.* Examples of objective indicia that may establish an anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero for specific elements of the type of facility, fuel source, or practice include, but are not limited to:


(i) Co-location of the facility with a fuel source (for example, an anaerobic digester) for which the combination of fuel, type of facility, and practice is reasonably expected to result in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero;


(ii) A 10-year binding written contract to purchase fuels for which the combination of fuel, type of facility, and practice is reasonably expected to result in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero;


(iii) A facility type that only accommodates one type of fuel or a small range of fuels for which the combination of fuel, type of facility, and practice is reasonably expected to result in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero;


(iv) A 10-year binding written contract for the permanent geological storage (including after injection into an enhanced oil and gas recovery (EOR) project) or utilization of qualified carbon dioxide from the facility for which the combination of fuel, type of facility, and capture and practice is reasonably expected to result in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero; or


(v) A legally binding Federal or State air permit which requires, as a condition of the permit, that the facility operates in a manner for which the combination of fuel, type of facility, and practice is reasonably expected to result in a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero and that any captured carbon dioxide is permanently geologically stored and subjects the holder to civil or criminal penalties in the event the relevant permit requirements are breached.


(j) *Reliance on Annual Table or provisional emissions rate.* Taxpayers may rely on the Annual Table in effect as of the date a facility began construction or the provisional emissions rate determined by the Secretary for the taxpayer's facility under paragraph (h)(4) of this section to determine the facility's greenhouse gas emissions rate, provided that the facility continues to operate as a type of facility that is described in the Annual Table or the facility's emissions value request, as applicable, for the entire taxable year.


(k) *Substantiation*—(1) *In general.* A taxpayer must maintain in its books and records documentation regarding the design and operation of a facility that establishes that such facility had an anticipated greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than zero in the year in which the section 48E credit is determined and operated with a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than 10 grams of CO_2_e per kWh during each year of the recapture period that applies for purposes of section 48E(g).


(2) *Sufficient substantiation.* Documentation sufficient to substantiate that a facility had a greenhouse gas emissions rate, as determined under this section, not greater than 10 grams of CO_2_e per kWh during each year of the recapture period that applies for purposes of section 48E(g) includes documentation or a report prepared by an unrelated party that verifies the facility's actual emissions rate. A facility described in § 1.45Y-5(c)(2) can maintain sufficient documentation to demonstrate a greenhouse gas emissions rate that is not greater than 10 grams of CO_2_e per kWh during each year of the recapture period that applies for purposes of section 48E(g) by showing that it is the type of facility described in § 1.45Y-5(c)(2). The Secretary may determine that other types of facilities can sufficiently substantiate a greenhouse gas emissions rate, as determined under this section, that is not greater than 10 grams of CO_2_e per kWh during each year of the recapture period that applies for purposes of section 48E(g) with certain documentation and will describe such facilities and documentation in IRS forms or instructions or in publications or guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. *See* § 601.601 of this chapter. For such other types of facilities that utilize biomass feedstocks, the taxpayer must substantiate that the source of such fuels or feedstocks used are consistent with the taxpayer's claims. For all facilities that utilize unmarketable feedstocks that are indistinguishable from marketable feedstocks (for instance, after processing), the taxpayer will be required to maintain documentation substantiating the origin and original form of the feedstock.


(l) *Applicability date.* This section applies to qualified facilities placed in service after December 31, 2024, and during a taxable year ending on or after January 15, 2025.



---

[N] [T.D. 10024, 90 FR 4110, Jan. 15, 2025]










