# § 9.31   Determination of the Administrator.

(a) *Written determination.* Upon completion of an investigation under § 9.22, the Administrator will issue a written determination of whether a violation has occurred. The determination will contain a statement of the investigation findings and conclusions. A determination that a violation occurred will address appropriate relief and the issue of debarment where appropriate. The Administrator will notify any complainant(s); employee representative(s); contractors, including the prime contractor if a subcontractor is implicated; contractor representative(s); and the contracting officer by registered or certified mail to the last known address or by any other means normally ensuring delivery, of the investigation findings.


(b) *Notice to parties and effect*—(1) *Relevant facts in dispute.* If the Administrator concludes that relevant facts are in dispute, the Administrator's determination will so advise the parties and their representatives, if any. It will further advise that the notice of determination will become the final order of the Secretary and will not be appealable in any administrative or judicial proceeding unless an interested party requests a hearing within 20 calendar days of the date of the Administrator's determination, in accordance with § 9.32(b)(1). Such a request may be sent by mail or by any other means normally ensuring delivery to the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Office of the Administrative Law Judges. A detailed statement of the reasons why the Administrator's determination is in error, including facts alleged to be in dispute, if any, must be submitted with the request for a hearing. The Administrator's determination not to seek debarment will not be appealable.


(2) *Relevant facts not in dispute.* If the Administrator concludes that no relevant facts are in dispute, the parties and their representatives, if any, will be so advised. They will also be advised that the determination will become the final order of the Secretary and will not be appealable in any administrative or judicial proceeding unless an interested party files a petition for review with the Administrative Review Board pursuant to § 9.32(b)(2) within 20 calendar days of the date of the determination of the Administrator. The determination will further advise that if an aggrieved party disagrees with the factual findings or believes there are relevant facts in dispute, the aggrieved party may advise the Administrator of the disputed facts and request a hearing by mail or by any other means normally ensuring delivery. The request must be sent within 20 calendar days of the date of the determination. The Administrator will either refer the request for a hearing to the Chief Administrative Law Judge or notify the parties and their representatives, if any, of the determination of the Administrator that there is no relevant issue of fact and that a petition for review may be filed with the Administrative Review Board within 20 calendar days of the date of the notice, in accordance with the procedures at § 9.32(b)(2).






