# ยง 3171.5   Application for Permit to Drill (APD).

An Application for Permit to Drill or Reenter, on Form 3160-3, is required for each proposed well, and for reentry of existing wells (including disposal and service wells), to develop an onshore lease for Federal or Indian oil and gas.


(a) *Where to file.* On or after March 13, 2017, the operator must file an APD and associated documents using the BLM's electronic commerce application for oil and gas permitting and reporting. The operator may contact the local BLM Field Office for information on how to gain access to the electronic commerce application. Prior to March 13, 2017, an operator may file an APD and associated documents in the BLM Field Office having jurisdiction over the application.


(b) *Early notification.* The operator may wish to contact the BLM and any applicable surface managing agency, as well as all private surface owners, to request an initial planning conference as soon as the operator has identified a potential area of development. Early notification is voluntary and would precede the Notice of Staking option or filing of an APD. It allows the involved surface managing agency or private surface owner to apprise the prospective operator of any unusual conditions on the lease area. Early notification also provides both the surface managing agency or private surface owner and the prospective operator with the earliest possible identification of seasonal restrictions and determination of potential areas of conflict. The prospective operator should have a map of the proposed project available for surface managing agency review to determine if a cultural or biological inventory or other information may be required. Inventories are not the responsibility of the operator.


(c) *Notice of Staking option.* (1) Before filing an APD or Master Development Plan, the operator may file a Notice of Staking with the BLM. The purpose of the Notice of Staking is to provide the operator with an opportunity to gather information to better address site-specific resource concerns while preparing the APD package. This may expedite approval of the APD. On or after March 13, 2017, if an operator chooses to file a Notice of Staking (NOS), the operator must file the NOS using the BLM's electronic commerce application for oil and gas permitting and reporting. Attachment I, Sample Format for Notice of Staking, provides the information required for the Notice of Staking option. Prior to March 13, 2017, an operator may file a Notice of Staking in the BLM Field Office having jurisdiction.


(2) For Federal lands managed by other surface managing agencies, the BLM will provide a copy of the Notice of Staking to the appropriate surface managing agency office. In Alaska, when a subsistence stipulation is part of the lease, the operator must also send a copy of the Notice of Staking to the appropriate Borough and/or Native Regional or Village Corporation.


(3) Within 10 days of receiving the Notice of Staking, the BLM or the FS will review it for required information and schedule a date for the onsite inspection. The onsite inspection will be conducted as soon as weather and other conditions permit. The operator must stake the proposed drill pad and ancillary facilities, and flag new or reconstructed access routes, before the onsite inspection. The staking must include a center stake for the proposed well, two reference stakes, and a flagged access road centerline. Staking activities are considered casual use unless the particular activity is likely to cause more than negligible disturbance or damage. Offroad vehicular use for the purposes of staking is casual use unless, in a particular case, it is likely to cause more than negligible disturbance or damage, or otherwise prohibited.


(4) On non-NFS lands, the BLM will invite the surface managing agency and private surface owner, if applicable, to participate in the onsite inspection. If the surface is privately owned, the operator must furnish to the BLM the name, address, and telephone number of the surface owner if known. All parties who attend the onsite inspection will jointly develop a list of resource concerns that the operator must address in the APD. The operator will be provided a list of these concerns either during the onsite inspection or within 7 days of the onsite inspection. Surface owner concerns will be considered to the extent practical within the law. Failure to submit an APD within 60 days of the onsite inspection will result in the Notice of Staking being returned to the operator.






