# § 164.50   Prehearing conference and primary discovery.

(a) *Purpose of the prehearing conference.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Administrative Law Judge shall, prior to the commencement of the hearing and for the purpose of expediting the hearing, file with the hearing clerk an order for a prehearing conference. More than one such conference may be held. Such order or orders shall direct the parties or their counsel to appear at a specified time and place to consider:


(1) The simplification of issues including listing of specific uses to be contested;


(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the objections or statement of issues, or any document filed in response thereto;


(3) The possibility of obtaining stipulations of fact and documents which will avoid unnecessary delay;


(4) Matters of which official notice may be taken;


(5) The limitation of the number of expert and other witnesses;


(6) Procedure at the hearing except as so provided in § 164.80(a);


(7) The use of verified written statements in lieu of oral direct testimony;


(8) The intent of any party to request a scientific advisory committee as defined in § 164.2(f);


(9) The issuance of subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum for discovery and hearing purposes;


(10) A setting of a time and place for the public hearing, after giving careful consideration to the convenience of all the parties, the witnesses, the public interest and the necessity for notice in the _Federal Register_ as provided by § 164.8; and


(11) Any other matter that may expedite the hearing or aid in the disposition of the proceeding. 


(b) *Primary discovery* (*Exchange of witness lists and documents*). At a prehearing conference or within some reasonable time set by the Administrative Law Judge prior to the hearing, each party shall make available to the other parties the names of the expert and other witnesses the party expects to call, together with a brief narrative summary of their expected testimony and a list of all documents and exhibits which the party expects to introduce into evidence. Thereafter, witnesses, documents, or exhibits may be added and narrative summaries of expected testimony amended upon motion by a party.


(c) *Record of the prehearing conference.* No transcript of any prehearing conference shall be made unless a request therefor by one of the parties is granted by the Administrative Law Judge. Such party shall bear the cost of the taking of the transcript unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare and file for the record a written report of the action taken at each conference, which shall incorporate any stipulations or agreements made by the parties at or as a result of such conference, all rulings upon matters considered at such conference and appropriate orders.


(d) *Unavailability of a prehearing conference.* Upon a finding that circumstances render a prehearing conference unnecessary, or impracticable, or upon a finding that a prehearing conference would serve primarily to delay the proceedings rather than to expedite them, the Administrative Law Judge, on motion or sua sponte, may order that the prehearing conference not be held. In these circumstances he may request the parties to correspond with him for the purpose of accomplishing any of the objectives set forth in this section. Such correspondence shall not be made a part of the record, but the Administrative Law Judge shall submit a written summary for the record if any action is taken.


(e) *Submission of questions to an advisory committee*—(1) *General.* At any prehearing conference, or if none is held prior to the public hearing, except as herein provided, the Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether any party desires that questions of scientific fact be referred to a committee designated by the National Academy of Sciences.


(2) *Preparation of questions.* On determining an affirmative intent, the Administrative Law Judge shall direct all parties to file and serve, within a time period subject to his discretion, proposed questions of scientific fact accompanied by reasons supporting their submission to said committee. Within 10 days of the service of such proposed questions, together with their supporting reasons, any party may respond in writing to the proposed submission of the questions to the said committee. The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether or not a reference of questions of scientific fact to said committee is necessary or desirable. In the event he decides such reference is necessary or desirable, he shall so inform the National Academy in writing, and shall prepare in his discretion appropriate questions. If any of the questions prepared are not in substance based upon the submissions of the parties, the Administrative Law Judge shall permit any party 10 days after their preparation to respond in writing to the proposed submission of said question or questions. He shall then determine whether such questions should be referred to the committee.


(3) *Reference and report.* Not less than 30 days after he has informed the National Academy that questions of scientific fact will be referred to it, the Administrative Law Judge shall refer the questions of scientific fact as prepared. The committee shall report in writing to the Administrative Law Judge within 60 days after such referral on these questions of scientific fact and the report, its record and any other matter transmitted as provided for by the Administrator's agreement with the National Academy of Sciences shall be made public and considered as part of the hearing record.


(4) *Request and submission subsequent to prehearing conference.* At any time before the hearing is closed, the Administrative Law Judge or a party by motion may request that questions of scientific fact not previously referred be referred, or that questions previously referred be amended or expanded. The Administrative Law Judge may refer such questions if he finds that good cause exists and that reference of such questions is necessary or desirable.



---

[N] [38 FR 19371, July 20, 1973, as amended at 39 FR 11884, Apr. 1, 1974]




