# § 46.163   Meaning of terms.

When used in this subpart, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, each of the following terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, words in the singular form shall include the plural, and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.46, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 46, Miscellaneous Regulations Relating to Tobacco Products and Cigarette Papers and Tubes.


*Dealer.* Any person who sells, or offers for sale, at wholesale or retail levels, any cigars or cigarettes after removal.


*Manufacturer of tobacco products.* Any person who manufactures cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, or roll-your-own tobacco but does not include:


(1) A person who produces tobacco products solely for that person's own consumption or use; or


(2) A proprietor of a Customs bonded manufacturing warehouse with respect to the operation of such warehouse.


*Package.* The container in which tobacco products are put up by the manufacturer or the importer and offered for delivery to the consumer.


*Person.* An individual, partnership, association, company, corporation, estate, or trust.


*Removal or remove.* The removal of tobacco products from the factory or release from Customs custody, including the smuggling or other unlawful importation of such articles into the United States.


*Tobacco Products.* Cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, and roll-your-own tobacco.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. 6573, 26 FR 8202, Aug. 31, 1961, as amended by T.D. 6871, 31 FR 60, Jan. 4, 1966. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975]


