# ยง 400.47   Retail trade.

(a) *In general.* Retail trade is prohibited in activated areas of zones, except that 1) sales or other commercial activity involving domestic, duty-paid, and duty-free goods may be conducted within an activated area of a zone under a permit issued by the zone grantee and approved by the Board, and 2) no permits shall be necessary for sales involving domestic, duty-paid or duty-free food and non-alcoholic beverage products sold within the zone or subzone for consumption on premises by individuals working therein. The Executive Secretary shall determine whether an activity is retail trade, subject to review by the Board when the zone grantee requests such a review with a good cause. Determinations on whether an activity constitutes retail trade shall be based on precedent established through prior rulings by CBP, as appropriate. Such prior rulings shall remain effective unless a determination is issued to modify their effect (after a notice-and-comment process, as appropriate). Determinations made by the Executive Secretary pursuant to this section shall be made available to the public via the Board's Web site.


(b) *Procedure.* Requests for Board approval under this section shall be submitted in letter form, with supporting documentation, to the Executive Secretary, who is authorized to act for the Board in these cases, after consultation with CBP as necessary.


(c) *Criteria.* In evaluating requests under this section, the Executive Secretary and CBP shall consider factors that may include:


(1) Whether any public benefits would result from approval; and


(2) The economic effect such activity would have on the retail trade outside the zone in the port of entry area.




