# § 60.705   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.702 shall notify the Administrator of the specific provisions of § 60.702 (§ 60.702 (a), (b), or (c)) with which the owner or operator has elected to comply. Notification shall be submitted with the notification of initial start-up required by § 60.7(a)(3). If an owner or operator elects at a later date to use an alternative provision of § 60.702 with which he or she will comply, then the Administrator shall be notified by the owner or operator 90 days before implementing a change and, upon implementing the change, a performance test shall be performed as specified by § 60.704 no later than 180 days from initial start-up. 


(b) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the following data measured during each performance test, and also include the following data in the report of the initial performance test required under § 60.8. Where a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 million Btu/hour) or greater is used or where the reactor process vent stream is introduced as the primary fuel to any size boiler or process heater to comply with § 60.702(a), a report containing performance test data need not be submitted, but a report containing the information in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section is required. The same data specified in this section shall be submitted in the reports of all subsequently required performance tests where either the emission control efficiency of a combustion device, outlet concentration of TOC, or the TRE index value of a vent stream from a recovery system is determined. Beginning on July 15, 2024, owners and operators must submit the performance test report following the procedures specified in paragraph (u) of this section. Data collected using test methods that are supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, the owner or operator may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.


(1) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702(a) through use of either a thermal or catalytic incinerator: 


(i) The average firebox temperature of the incinerator (or the average temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed for a catalytic incinerator), measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing, and 


(ii) The percent reduction of TOC determined as specified in § 60.704(b) achieved by the incinerator, or the concentration of TOC (ppmv, by compound) determined as specified in § 60.704(b) at the outlet of the control device on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen. 


(2) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702(a) through use of a boiler or process heater: 


(i) A description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater, and 


(ii) The average combustion temperature of the boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 million Btu/hr) measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing. 


(3) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702(b) through use of a smokeless flare, flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted or nonassisted), all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the performance test, continuous records of the flare pilot flame monitoring, and records of all periods of operations during which the pilot flame is absent. 


(4) Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702(c): 


(i) Where an absorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system, the exit specific gravity (or alternative parameter which is a measure of the degree of absorbing liquid saturation, if approved by the Administrator), and average exit temperature, of the absorbing liquid measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing (both measured while the vent stream is normally routed and constituted); or 


(ii) Where a condenser is the final recovery device in the recovery system, the average exit (product side) temperature measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing while the vent stream is routed and constituted normally; or 


(iii) Where a carbon adsorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system, the total steam mass flow measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance test (full carbon bed cycle), temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration [and within 15 minutes of completion of any cooling cycle(s)], and duration of the carbon bed steaming cycle (all measured while the vent stream is routed and constituted normally); or 


(iv) As an alternative to § 60.705(b)(4) (i), (ii) or (iii), the concentration level or reading indicated by the organics monitoring device at the outlet of the absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber, measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing while the vent stream is normally routed and constituted. 


(v) All measurements and calculations performed to determine the TRE index value of the vent stream.


(c) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 60.703 (a) and (c) as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries established during the most recent performance test are exceeded. The Administrator may at any time require a report of these data. Where a combustion device is used to comply with § 60.702(a), periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries established during the most recent performance tests are exceeded are defined as follows:


(1) For thermal incinerators, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average combustion temperature was more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average combustion temperature during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 60.702(a) was determined. 


(2) For catalytic incinerators, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature of the vent stream immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average temperature of the vent stream during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 60.702(a) was determined. The owner or operator also shall record all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference of the bed during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 60.702(a) was determined. 


(3) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average combustion temperature was more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average combustion temperature during the most recent performance test at which compliance with § 60.702(a) was determined for boilers or process heaters with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 million Btu/hr) where the vent stream is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel. 


(4) For boilers or process heaters, whenever there is a change in the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone as required under § 60.702(a). 


(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records of the following: 


(1) Up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of the flow indication specified under § 60.703(a)(2)(i), § 60.703(b)(2)(i) and § 60.703(c)(1)(i), as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of all periods and the duration when the vent stream is diverted from the control device. 


(2) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 60.703(a)(2)(ii), § 60.703(b)(2)(ii), and § 60.703(c)(1)(ii), a record of continuous flow is not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of all monthly visual inspections of the seals as well as readily accessible records of all periods and the duration when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, the serial number of the broken car-seal has changed, or when the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out. 


(e) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of the flare pilot flame monitoring specified under § 60.703(b), as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of all periods of operations in which the pilot flame is absent. 


(f) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 60.703(d), as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries established during the most recent performance test are exceeded. The Administrator may at any time require a report of these data. Where an owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.702(c), periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries established during the most recent performance tests are exceeded are defined as follows: 


(1) Where an absorber is the final recovery device in a recovery system, and where an organic compound monitoring device is not used: 


(i) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average absorbing liquid temperature was more than 11 °C (20 °F) above the average absorbing liquid temperature during the most recent performance test, or 


(ii) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average absorbing liquid specific gravity was more than 0.1 unit above, or more than 0.1 unit below, the average absorbing liquid specific gravity during the most recent performance test (unless monitoring of an alternative parameter, which is a measure of the degree of absorbing liquid saturation, is approved by the Administrator, in which case he will define appropriate parameter boundaries and periods of operation during which they are exceeded). 


(2) Where a condenser is the final recovery device in a system, and where an organic compound monitoring device is not used, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average exit (product side) condenser operating temperature was more than 6 °C (11 °F) above the average exit (product side) operating temperature during the most recent performance test. 


(3) Where a carbon adsorber is the final recovery device in a system, and where an organic compound monitoring device is not used: 


(i) All carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the total mass steam flow was more than 10 percent below the total mass steam flow during the most recent performance test, or 


(ii) All carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration (and after completion of any cooling cycle(s)) was more than 10 percent or 5 °C greater, whichever is less stringent, than the carbon bed temperature (in degrees Celsius) during the most recent performance test. 


(4) Where an absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and where an organic compound monitoring device is used, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average organic compound concentration level or reading of organic compounds in the exhaust gases is more than 20 percent greater than the exhaust gas organic compound concentration level or reading measured by the monitoring device during the most recent performance test.


(g) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart and seeking to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702(c) shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of: 


(1) Any changes in production capacity, feedstock type, or catalyst type, or of any replacement, removal or addition of recovery equipment or reactors; 


(2) Any recalculation of the TRE index value performed pursuant to § 60.704(f); and 


(3) The results of any performance test performed pursuant to the methods and procedures required by § 60.704(d). 


(h) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that seeks to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the flow rate cutoff in § 60.700(c)(4) shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records to indicate that the vent stream flow rate is less than 0.011 scm/min and of any change in equipment or process operation that increases the operating vent stream flow rate, including a measurement of the new vent stream flow rate. 


(i) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that seeks to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the design production capacity provision in § 60.700(c)(3) shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of any change in equipment or process operation that increases the design production capacity of the process unit in which the affected facility is located. 


(j) Each owner or operator of an affected facility that seeks to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the low concentration exemption in § 60.700(c)(8) shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of any change in equipment or process operation that increases the concentration of the vent stream of the affected facility. 


(k) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart is exempt from the quarterly reporting requirements contained in § 60.7(c) of the General Provisions. 


(l) Each owner or operator that seeks to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the requirements of § 60.700(c)(2), (3), or (4) or § 60.702 shall submit to the Administrator semiannual reports of the following recorded information. The initial report shall be submitted within 6 months after the initial start-up date. On and after July 15, 2025 or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for 1 year, whichever date is later, owners and operators must submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (u) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(1) Exceedances of monitored parameters recorded under paragraphs (c), (f), and (g) of this section.


(2) All periods and duration recorded under paragraph (d) of this section when the vent stream is diverted from the control device to the atmosphere.


(3) All periods recorded under paragraph (e) of this section in which the pilot flame of the flare was absent.


(4) Any change in equipment or process operation that increases the operating vent stream flow rate above the low flow exemption level in § 60.700(c)(4), including a measurement of the new vent stream flow rate, as recorded under paragraph (i) of this section. These must be reported as soon as possible after the change and no later than 180 days after the change. These reports may be submitted either in conjunction with semiannual reports or as a single separate report. A performance test must be completed within the same time period to verify the recalculated flow value and to obtain the vent stream characteristics of heating value and E_TOC_. The performance test is subject to the requirements of § 60.8, and the performance test must be reported according to paragraph (b) of this section. Unless the facility qualifies for an exemption under any of the exemption provisions listed in § 60.700(c), except for the total resource effectiveness index greater than 8.0 exemption in § 60.700(c)(2), the facility must begin compliance with the requirements set forth in § 60.702.


(5) Any change in equipment or process operation, as recorded under paragraph (i) of this section, that increases the design production capacity above the low capacity exemption level in § 60.700(c)(3) and the new capacity resulting from the change for the reactor process unit containing the affected facility. These must be reported as soon as possible after the change and no later than 180 days after the change. These reports may be submitted either in conjunction with semiannual reports or as a single separate report. A performance test must be completed within the same time period to obtain the vent stream flow rate, heating value, and E_TOC_. The performance test is subject to the requirements of § 60.8, and the performance test must be reported according to paragraph (b) of this section. The facility must begin compliance with the requirements set forth in § 60.702 or § 60.700(d). If the facility chooses to comply with § 60.702, the facility may qualify for an exemption under § 60.700(c)(2), (4), or (8).


(6) Any recalculation of the TRE index value, as recorded under paragraph (g) of this section.


(7) All periods recorded under paragraph (d) of this section in which the seal mechanism is broken or the by-pass line valve position has changed. A record of the serial number of the car-seal or a record to show that the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out must be maintained to demonstrate the period, the duration, and frequency in which the bypass line was operated.


(8) Any change in equipment or process operation that increases the vent stream concentration above the low concentration exemption level in § 60.700(c)(8), including a measurement of the new vent stream concentration, as recorded under paragraph (j) of this section. These must be reported as soon as possible after the change and no later than 180 days after the change. These reports may be submitted either in conjunction with semiannual reports or as a single separate report. If the vent stream concentration is above 300 ppmv as measured using Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part, or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) as specified in § 60.704(b)(4), or above 150 ppmv as measured using Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part, a performance test must be completed within the same time period to obtain the vent stream flow rate, heating value, and ETOC. The performance test is subject to the requirements of § 60.8, and the performance test must be reported according to paragraph (b) of this section. Unless the facility qualifies for an exemption under any of the exemption provisions listed in § 60.700(c), except for the TRE index greater than 8.0 exemption in § 60.700(c)(2), the facility must begin compliance with the requirements set forth in § 60.702.


(m) The requirements of paragraph (l) of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with paragraph (l), provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State. The EPA will not approve a waiver of electronic reporting to the EPA in delegating enforcement authority. Thus, electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, the provisions of this paragraph cannot be used to relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit the electronic reports required in this section to the EPA. 


(n) Each owner or operator that seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700(c)(3) must submit to the Administrator an initial report detailing the design production capacity of the process unit. 


(o) Each owner or operator that seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700(c)(4) must submit to the Administrator an initial report including a flow rate measurement using the test methods specified in § 60.704. 


(p) Each owner or operator that seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700(c)(8) must submit to the Administrator an initial report including a concentration measurement using the test method specified in § 60.704. 


(q) The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements where the owner or operator of an affected facility complies with the standards specified under § 60.702 other than as provided under § 60.703 (a), (b), (c), and (d).


(r) Each owner or operator whose reactor process vent stream is routed to a distillation unit subject to subpart NNN and who seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700(c)(5) shall submit to the Administrator a process design description as part of the initial report. This process design description must be retained for the life of the process. No other records or reports would be required unless process changes are made. 


(s) Each owner or operator who seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702 (a) or (b) using a control device must maintain on file a schematic diagram of the affected vent streams, collection system(s), fuel systems, control devices, and bypass systems as part of the initial report. This schematic diagram must be retained for the life of the system. 


(t) Each owner or operator that seeks to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700(c)(2) must maintain a record of the initial test for determining the total resource effectiveness index and the results of the initial total resource effectiveness index calculation. 


(u) If an owner or operator is required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (u), the owner or operator must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although the EPA does not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if an owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, the owner or operator must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (u)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information claimed to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. The owner or operator must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (u).


(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. Owners and operators who do not have their own file sharing service and who require assistance with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments should email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(2) If an owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(v) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, owners and operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (v)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(w) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of *force majeure,* owners and operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (w)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) An owner or operator may submit a claim if a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the *force majeure* event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs.



---

[N] [58 FR 45962, Aug. 31, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 58238, Nov. 27, 1995; 65 FR 78279, Dec. 14, 2000; 89 FR 43129, May 16, 2024]






