# § 801.11   Related design requirements.

(a) *Suitability.* The design, construction, and location of official sampling and inspection equipment and related sample handling systems shall be suitable for the official sampling and inspection activities for which the equipment is to be used.


(b) *Durability.* The design, construction, and material used in official sampling and inspection equipment and related sample handling systems shall assure that, under normal operating conditions, operating parts will remain fully operable, adjustments will remain reasonably constant, and accuracy will be maintained between equipment test periods.


(c) *Marking and identification.* Official sampling and inspection equipment for which tolerances have been established shall be permanently marked to show the manufacturer's name, initials, or trademark; the serial number of the equipment; and the model, the type, and the design or pattern of the equipment. Operational controls for mechanical samplers and related sample handling systems, including but not limited to pushbuttons and switches, shall be conspicuously identified as to the equipment or activity controlled by the pushbutton or switch.


(d) *Repeatability.* Official inspection equipment when tested in accordance with §§ 800.217 and 800.219 shall, within the tolerances prescribed in §§ 801.3 through 801.10, be capable of repeating its results when the equipment is operated in its normal manner.


(e) *Security.* Mechanical samplers and related sample handling systems shall provide a ready means of sealing to deter unauthorized adjustments, removal, or changing of component parts or timing sequence without removing or breaking the seals; and otherwise be designed, constructed, and installed in a manner to prevent deception by any person.


(f) *Installation requirements.* Official sampling and inspection equipment and related sample handling systems shall be installed (1) at a site approved by the Service, (2) according to the manufacturer's instructions, and (3) in such a manner that neither the operation nor the performance of the equipment or system will be adversely affected by the foundation, supports, or any other characteristic of the installation.




