# ยง 245.121   Knowledge testing.

(a) After FRA has approved a railroad's dispatcher certification program, the railroad shall determine, prior to issuing any person a dispatcher certificate and in accordance with the requirements of this section, that the person has demonstrated sufficient knowledge of the railroad's rules and practices for the safe movement of trains.


(b) In order to make the knowledge determination required by paragraph (a) of this section, a railroad shall have procedures for testing a person being evaluated for certification as a dispatcher that are:


(1) Designed to examine a person's knowledge of the railroad's operating rules and practices for the safe movement of trains;


(2) Objective in nature;


(3) In written or electronic form;


(4) Covering the following subjects:


(i) Safety and operating rules;


(ii) Timetable instructions;


(iii) Compliance with all applicable Federal regulations;


(iv) Physical characteristics of the territory or territories on which a person is currently working or training to qualify as a dispatcher; and


(v) Dispatching systems and technology.


(5) Sufficient to accurately measure the person's knowledge of the covered subjects; and


(6) Conducted without open reference books or other materials except to the degree the person is being tested on their ability to use such reference books or materials.


(c) The railroad shall provide the certification candidate with an opportunity to consult with a supervisory employee who possesses territorial qualifications for the territory to explain a test question.


(d) If a person fails the test, no railroad shall permit or require that person to work as a dispatcher prior to that person's achieving a passing score during a reexamination of the test.


(e) Each railroad shall adopt and comply with a program meeting the requirements of this section. When any person (including, but not limited to, each railroad, railroad officer, supervisor, and employee) violates any requirement of a program which complies with the requirements of this section, that person shall be considered to have violated the requirements of this section.






