# § 5.29   How may I request assistance with the FOIA process?

(a) If you have questions concerning the processing of your FOIA request, you should first contact the FOIA Requester Service Center processing your request. Additionally, for assistance at any point in the FOIA process, you may contact the FOIA Public Liaison at the FOIA Requester Service Center processing your request. The FOIA Public Liaison is responsible for assisting you to reduce delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting to resolve any FOIA disputes. Some FOIA Requester Service Centers allow you to check the status of your request online. You can find a list of our FOIA Requester Service Centers and Public Liaisons at *http://www.hhs.gov/foia/contacts/index.html.*

(b) The Office of Government Information Services (OGIS), which is part of the National Archives and Records Administration, serves as the Federal FOIA ombudsman and assists requesters and agencies to prevent and resolve FOIA disputes through mediation. Mediation is a voluntary process. If we participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, we will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute and will follow the principles of confidentiality in accordance with the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act, 5 U.S.C. 571-8. You may contact OGIS at the following address: National Archives and Records Administration, Office of Government Information Services, 8601 Adelphi Road—OGIS, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email at *ogis@nara.gov,* or by telephone at 202-741-5770 or 1-877-684-6448 (toll free).




