# § 299.13   What complaint procedures shall an SEA adopt?

(a) *General.* An SEA shall adopt written procedures, consistent with State law, for— 


(1) Receiving and resolving any complaint from an organization or individual that the SEA or an agency or consortium of agencies is violating a Federal statute or regulation that applies to an applicable program listed in paragraph (b) of this section; 


(2) Reviewing an appeal from a decision of an agency or consortium of agencies with respect to a complaint; and 


(3) Conducting an independent on-site investigation of a complaint if the SEA determines that an on-site investigation is necessary. 


(b) *Applicable programs.* This subpart is applicable to the following programs:


(1) Part A of title I (Improving Basic Programs Operated by Local Educational Agencies).


(2) Part C of title I (Education of Migratory Children).


(3) Part D of title I (Prevention and Intervention Programs for Children and Youth Who Are Neglected, Delinquent, or At Risk).


(4) Part A of title II (Supporting Effective Instruction).


(5) Part A, subpart 1 of title III (English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement), except for section 3112.


(6) Part A of title IV (Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants).


(7) Part B of title IV (21st Century Community Learning Centers).


(8) Part B, subpart 2 of title V (Rural and Low-Income School Program).


(9) Subtitle B of title VII of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, Education for Homeless Children and Youth Program.





---

[N] [62 FR 28252, May 22, 1997. Redesignated and amended at 84 FR 31679, July 2, 2019. Redesignated at 89 FR 70344, Aug. 29, 2024]




