# § 220.144   Evaluation guides for a self-employed claimant.

(a) *If the claimant is a self-employed claimant.* The Board will consider the claimant's activities and their value to the claimant's business to decide whether the claimant has engaged in substantial gainful activity if the claimant is self-employed. The Board will not consider the claimant's income alone since the amount of income the claimant actually receives may depend upon a number of different factors like capital investment, profit sharing agreements, etc. The Board will generally consider work that the claimant is forced to stop after a short time because of his or her impairment(s) as an unsuccessful work attempt and the claimant's income from that work will not show that the claimant is able to do substantial gainful activity. The Board will evaluate the claimant's work activity on the value to the business of the claimant's services regardless of whether the claimant receives an immediate income for his or her services. The Board considers that the claimant has engaged in substantial gainful activity if—


(1) The claimant's work activity, in terms of factors such as hours, skills, energy output, efficency, duties, and responsibilities, is comparable to that of unimpaired persons in the claimant's community who are in the same or similar businesses as their means of livelihood;


(2) The claimant's work activity, although not comparable to that of unimpaired persons, is clearly worth the amount shown in § 220.143(b)(2) when considered in terms of its value to the business, or when compared to the salary that an owner would pay to an employed person to do the work the claimant is doing; or


(3) The claimant renders services that are significant to the operation of the business and receives a substantial income from the business.


(b) *What the Board means by significant services*—(1) *Claimants who are not farm landlords.* If the claimant is not a farm landlord and the claimant operates a business entirely by himself or herself, any services that the claimant renders are significant to the business. If the claimant's business involves the services of more than one person, the Board will consider the claimant to be rendering significant services if he or she contributes more than half the total time required for the management of the business or he or she renders management services for more than 45 hours a month regardless of the total management time required by the business.


(2) *Claimants who are farm landlords*—(i) *General.* If the claimant is a farm landlord, that is, the claimant rents farm land to another, the Board will consider the claimant to be rendering significant services if the claimant materially participates in the production or the management of the production of the things raised on the rented farm. If the claimant was given social security earnings credits because he or she materially participated in the activities of the farm and he or she continues these same activities, the Board will consider the claimant to be rendering significant services.


(ii) *Material participation.* (A) The claimant will have established that he or she is materially participating if he or she—


(*1*) Furnishes a large portion of the machinery, tools, and livestock used in the production of the things raised on the rented farm; or


(*2*) Furnishes or advances monies or assumes financial responsibility for a substantial part of the expense involved in the production of the things raised on the rented farm.


(B) The claimant will have presented strong evidence that he or she is materially participating if he or she periodically—


(*1*) Advise or consults with the other person who under the rental agreement produces the things raised on the rented farm; and


(*2*) Inspects the production activities on the land.


(iii) *Production.* The term “production” refers to the physical work performed and the expenses incurred in producing the things raised on the farm. It includes activities like the actual work of planting, cultivating, and harvesting of crops, and the furnishing of machinery, implements, seed, and livestock.


(iv) *Management of the production.* The term “management of the production” refers to services performed in making managerial decisions about the production of the crop, such as when to plant, cultivate, dust, spray or harvest. It includes advising and consulting, making inspections, and making decisions on matters, such as rotation of crops, the type of crops to be grown, the type of livestock to be raised, and the type of machinery and implements to be furnished.


(c) *What the Board means by substantial income.* After the claimant's normal business expenses are deducted from the claimant's gross income to determine net income, the Board will deduct the reasonable value of any unpaid help, any soil bank payments that were included as farm income, and impairment-related work expenses described in § 220.145 that have not been deducted in determining the claimant's net earnings from self-employment. The Board will consider the resulting amount of income from the business to be substantial if—


(1) It averages more than the amounts described in § 220.143(b)(2); or


(2) It averages less than the amounts described in § 220.143(b)(2) but the livelihood which the claimant gets from the business is either comparable to what it was before the claimant became severely impaired or is comparable to that of unimpaired self-employed persons in the claimant's community who are in the same or similar businesses as their means of livelihood.




