# ยง 2.303   Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Noise Control Act of 1972.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


(1) *Act* means the Noise Control Act of 1972, 42 U.S.C. 4901 *et seq.*

(2) *Manufacturer* has the meaning given it in 42 U.S.C. 4902(6).


(3) *Product* has the meaning given it in 42 U.S.C. 4902(3).


(4) *Proceeding* means any rulemaking, adjudication, or licensing conducted by EPA under the Act or under regulations which implement the Act, except for determinations under this subpart.


(b) *Applicability.* This section applies only to information provided to or obtained by EPA under section 13 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 4912, by or from any manufacturer of any product to which regulations under section 6 or 8 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 4905, 4907) apply. Information will be deemed to have been provided or obtained under section 13 of the Act, if it was provided in response to a request by EPA made for the purpose of enabling EPA to determine whether the manufacturer has acted or is acting in compliance with the Act, or if its submission could have been required under section 13 of the Act, regardless of whether section 13 was cited as authority for the request, whether an order to provide such information was issued under section 11(d) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 4910(d), and whether the information was provided directly to EPA by the manufacturer or through some third person.


(c) *Basic rules which apply without change.* Sections 2.201 through 2.207 and 2.209 through 2.215 apply without change to information to which this section applies.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Substantive criteria for use in confidentiality determinations.* Section 2.208 applies without change to information to which this section applies; however, no information to which this section applies is voluntarily submitted information.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Disclosure of information relevant to a proceeding.* (1) Under section 13 of the Act, any information to which this section applies may be released by EPA because of its relevance to a matter in controversy in a proceeding, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Release of information because of its relevance to a proceeding shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (g).


(2)-(4) The provisions of ยง 2.301(g) (2), (3), and (4) are incorporated by reference as paragraphs (g) (2), (3), and (4), respectively, of this section.



---

[N] [41 FR 36902, Sept. 1, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 40003, Sept. 8, 1978]




