# ยง 228.102   Leasing analyses and decisions.

(a) *Compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.* In analyzing lands for leasing, the authorized Forest officer shall comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, implementing regulations at 43 CFR parts 1500-1508, and Forest Service implementing policies and procedures set forth in Forest Service Manual chapter 1950 and Forest Service Handbook 1909.15.


(b) *Scheduling analysis of available lands.* Within 6 months of April 20, 1990, Forest Supervisors shall develop, in cooperation with the Bureau of Land Management and with public input, a schedule for analyzing lands under their jurisdiction that have not been already analyzed for leasing. The Forest Supervisors shall revise or make additions to the schedule at least annually. In scheduling lands for analysis, the authorized Forest officer shall identify and exclude from further review the following lands which are legally unavailable for leasing: 


(1) Lands withdrawn from mineral leasing by an act of Congress or by an order of the Secretary of the Interior;


(2) Lands recommended for wilderness allocation by the Secretary of Agriculture;


(3) Lands designated by statute as wilderness study areas, unless oil and gas leasing is specifically allowed by the statute designating the study area; and 


(4) Lands within areas allocated for wilderness or further planning in Executive Communication 1504, Ninety-Sixth Congress (House Document No. 96-119), unless such lands subsequently have been allocated to uses other than wilderness by an approved Forest land and resource management plan or have been released to uses other than wilderness by an act of Congress.


(c) *Leasing analyses.* The leasing analysis shall be conducted by the authorized Forest officer in accordance with the requirements of 36 CFR part 219 (Forest land and resource management planning) and/or, as appropriate, through preparation of NEPA documents. As part of the analysis, the authorized Forest officer shall: 


(1) Identify on maps those areas that will be:


(i) Open to development subject to the terms and conditions of the standard oil and gas lease form (including an explanation of the typical standards and objectives to be enforced under the standard lease terms);


(ii) Open to development but subject to constraints that will require the use of lease stipulations such as those prohibiting surface use on areas larger than 40 acres or such other standards as may be developed in the plan for stipulation use (with discussion as to why the constraints are necessary and justifiable); and 


(iii) Closed to leasing, distinguishing between those areas that are being closed through exercise of management direction, and those closed by law, regulation, etc. 


(2) Identify alternatives to the areas listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, including that of not allowing leasing. 


(3) Project the type/amount of post-leasing activity that is reasonably foreseeable as a consequence of conducting a leasing program consistent with that described in the proposal and for each alternative. 


(4) Analyze the reasonable foreseeable impacts of post-leasing activity projected under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(d) *Area or Forest-wide leasing decisions (lands administratively available for leasing).* Upon completion of the leasing analysis, the Regional Forest shall promptly notify the Bureau of Land Management as to the area or Forest-wide leasing decisions that have been made, that is, identify lands which have been found administratively available for leasing. 


(e) *Leasing decisions for specific lands.* At such time as specific lands are being considered for leasing, the Regional Forester shall review the area or Forest-wide leasing decision and shall authorize the Bureau of Land Management to offer specific lands for lease subject to: 


(1) Verifying that oil and gas leasing of the specific lands has been adequately addressed in a NEPA document, and is consistent with the Forest land and resource management plan. If NEPA has not been adequately addressed, or if there is significant new information or circumstances as defined by 40 CFR 1502.9 requiring further environmental analysis, additional environment analysis shall be done before a leasing decision for specific lands will be made. If there is inconsistency with the Forest land and resource management plan, no authorization for leasing shall be given unless the plan is amended or revised.


(2) Ensuring that conditions of surface occupancy identified in ยง 228.102(c)(1) are properly included as stipulations in resulting leases. 


(3) Determining that operations and development could be allowed somewhere on each proposed lease, except where stipulations will prohibit all surface occupancy.



---

[N] [55 FR 10444, Mar. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 56157, Nov. 1, 1991]




