# ยง 1606.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Corporation,* when used to refer to decisions by the Legal Services Corporation, means that those decisions are made by an individual acting with a seniority level at, or equivalent to, the level of an office director or higher.


*Days* shall mean the number of calendar days as determined by the rules for computing time in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 6, except that computation of *business days* shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays (as defined in those rules).


*Debarment* means an action taken by the Corporation to exclude a recipient from receiving an additional award of financial assistance from the Corporation or from receiving additional LSC funds from another recipient of the Corporation pursuant to any other means, including a subgrant, subcontract or similar agreement, for the period of time stated in the final debarment decision.


*Funding term* means the maximum time period for an award or awards of financial assistance under section 1006(a)(1)(A) of the LSC Act provided by the Corporation to a recipient selected pursuant the competition requirements at 45 CFR part 1634. LSC may award grants or contracts for a period of the entire funding term or for shorter periods that may be renewed or extended up to the funding term.


*Knowing and willful* means that the recipient had actual knowledge that its action or lack thereof constituted a violation and despite such knowledge, undertook or failed to undertake the action, as the case may be.


*Limited reduction of funding* means a reduction of funding of less than five percent of a recipient's current level of financial assistance imposed by the Corporation in accordance with the procedures and requirements of this part. A limited reduction of funding will affect only the recipient's current year's funding.


*LSC requirements* means the same as that term is defined in 45 CFR Part 1618.


*Receipt* of materials shall mean that the materials were sent to the normal address for physical mail, email, or fax transmission, and there is reliable secondary confirmation of delivery. For physical delivery, confirmation may be provided through tracking information from the delivery service. For other forms of delivery, confirmation may be provided through a document such as a confirmation email or a fax sent from an authorized person at the recipient. Receipt of materials by the LSC recipient or the Corporation is sufficient for the running of applicable time periods. Proof of receipt by the Chair of the governing body is not necessary unless delivery to the recipient itself cannot be reasonably accomplished.


*Recipient* means the same as the term is defined in 45 CFR Part 1600.


*Substantial noncompliance* means either a substantial violation, as defined in this part, or a substantial failure, as indicated at ยง 1606.3(a) of this part.


*Substantial violation* means a violation that merits action under this part based on consideration of the following criteria by the Corporation:


(1) The number of restrictions or requirements violated;


(2) Whether the violation represents an instance of noncompliance with a substantive statutory or regulatory restriction or requirement, rather than an instance of noncompliance with a non-substantive technical or procedural requirement;


(3) The extent to which the violation is part of a pattern of noncompliance with LSC requirements or restrictions;


(4) The extent to which the recipient failed to take action to cure the violation when it became aware of the violation; and


(5) Whether the violation was knowing and willful.


*Termination* means that a recipient's level of financial assistance under its grant or contract with the Corporation will be reduced in whole or in part in the amount of five percent or greater prior to the expiration of the funding term of a recipient's current grant or contract. A partial termination will affect only the level of funding for the current grant year, unless the Corporation provides otherwise in the final decision.


*Violation* means a violation by the recipient of the LSC requirements.




