# ยง 9.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to subparts A through C of this part. The definitions in parts 718 and 1400 of this title apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.


*AMS* means USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service.


*Application* means the CFAP application form.


*Cattle* means commercially raised or maintained bovine animals, excluding beefalo, bison, and animals used for dairy production or intended for dairy production.


*Commodity* means an agricultural commodity produced in the United States and intended to be marketed for commercial production that has been designated as eligible for payments under CFAP.


*Controlled environment* means an environment in which everything that can practicably be controlled by the producer with structures, facilities, and growing media (including but not limited to water, soil, or nutrients), is in fact controlled by the producer, as determined by industry standards.


*Foreign entity* means a corporation, trust, estate, or other similar organization that has more than 10 percent of its beneficial interest held by individuals who are not:


(1) Citizens of the United States; or


(2) Lawful aliens possessing a valid Alien Registration Receipt Card.


*Foreign person* means any person who is not a citizen or national of the United States or who is admitted into the United States for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act and possesses a valid Alien Registration Receipt Card issued by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security.


*Hogs* means any swine 120 pounds or more.


*NOFA* means a Notice of Funding Availability published in the _Federal Register_. 




*Ownership interest* means to have either legal ownership interest or beneficial ownership interest in a legal entity. For the purposes of administering CFAP, a person or legal entity that owns a share or stock in a legal entity that is a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, or similar type entity, and shares in the profits or losses of such entity is considered to have an ownership interest in such legal entity. A person or legal entity that is a beneficiary of a trust or heir of an estate who benefits from the profits or losses of such entity is also considered to have an ownership interest in such legal entity.




*Pigs* means any swine weighing less than 120 pounds.


*Wool* means the fiber sheared from a live sheep and includes, unless noted otherwise, graded and nongraded wool. Graded wool is paid on a clean basis, and ungraded wool is paid on a greasy basis.



---

[N] [85 FR 30830, May 21, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 35799, June 12, 2020; 85 FR 59175, Sept. 21, 2020; 85 FR 59384, Sept. 22, 2020; 88 FR 1876, Jan. 11, 2023]




