# § 745.225   Accreditation of training programs: target housing and child occupied facilities.

(a) *Scope.* (1) A training program may seek accreditation to offer courses in any of the following disciplines: Inspector, risk assessor, supervisor, project designer, abatement worker, renovator, and dust sampling technician. A training program may also seek accreditation to offer refresher courses for each of the above listed disciplines.


(2) Training programs may first apply to EPA for accreditation of their lead-based paint activities courses or refresher courses pursuant to this section on or after August 31, 1998. Training programs may first apply to EPA for accreditation of their renovator or dust sampling technician courses or refresher courses pursuant to this section on or after April 22, 2009.


(3) A training program must not provide, offer, or claim to provide EPA- accredited lead-based paint activities courses without applying for and receiving accreditation from EPA as required under paragraph (b) of this section on or after March 1, 1999. A training program must not provide, offer, or claim to provide EPA-accredited renovator or dust sampling technician courses without applying for and receiving accreditation from EPA as required under paragraph (b) of this section on or after June 23, 2008.


(4) Accredited training programs, training program managers, and principal instructors must comply with all of the requirements of this section including approved terms of the application and all of the requirements and limitations specified in any accreditation documents issued to training programs.


(b) *Application process.* The following are procedures a training program must follow to receive EPA accreditation to offer lead-based paint activities courses, renovator courses, or dust sampling technician courses:


(1) A training program seeking accreditation shall submit an electronic application to EPA containing the following information:


(i) The training program's name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) A list of courses for which it is applying for accreditation. For the purposes of this section, courses taught in different languages and electronic learning courses are considered different courses, and each must independently meet the accreditation requirements.


(iii) The name and documentation of the qualifications of the training program manager.


(iv) The name(s) and documentation of qualifications of any principal instructor(s).


(v) A statement signed by the training program manager certifying that the training program meets the requirements established in paragraph (c) of this section. If a training program uses EPA-recommended model training materials, or training materials approved by a State or Indian Tribe that has been authorized by EPA under subpart Q of this part, the training program manager shall include a statement certifying that, as well.


(vi) If a training program does not use EPA-recommended model training materials, its application for accreditation shall also include:


(A) A copy of the student and instructor manuals, or other materials to be used for each course.


(B) A copy of the course agenda for each course.


(C) When applying for accreditation of a course in a language other than English, a signed statement from a qualified, independent translator that they had compared the course to the English language version and found the translation to be accurate.


(vii) All training programs shall include in their application for accreditation the following:


(A) A description of the facilities and equipment to be used for lecture and hands-on training.


(B) A copy of the course test blueprint for each course.


(C) A description of the activities and procedures that will be used for conducting the assessment of hands-on skills for each course.


(D) A copy of the quality control plan as described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.


(2) If a training program meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, then EPA shall approve the application for accreditation no more than 180 days after receiving a complete application from the training program. In the case of approval, a certificate of accreditation shall be sent to the applicant. In the case of disapproval, a letter describing the reasons for disapproval shall be sent to the applicant. Prior to disapproval, EPA may, at its discretion, work with the applicant to address inadequacies in the application for accreditation. EPA may also request additional materials retained by the training program under paragraph (i) of this section. If a training program's application is disapproved, the program may reapply for accreditation at any time.


(3) A training program may apply for accreditation to offer courses or refresher courses in as many disciplines as it chooses. A training program may seek accreditation for additional courses at any time as long as the program can demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this section.


(4) A training program applying for accreditation must submit the appropriate fees in accordance with § 745.238.


(c) *Requirements for the accreditation of training programs.* A training program accredited by EPA to offer lead-based paint activities courses, renovator courses, or dust sampling technician courses must meet the following requirements:


(1) The training program shall employ a training manager who has:


(i) At least 2 years of experience, education, or training in teaching workers or adults; or


(ii) A bachelor's or graduate degree in building construction technology, engineering, industrial hygiene, safety, public health, education, business administration or program management or a related field; or


(iii) Two years of experience in managing a training program specializing in environmental hazards; and


(iv) Demonstrated experience, education, or training in the construction industry including: Lead or asbestos abatement, painting, carpentry, renovation, remodeling, occupational safety and health, or industrial hygiene.


(2) The training manager shall designate a qualified principal instructor for each course who has:


(i) Demonstrated experience, education, or training in teaching workers or adults; and


(ii) Successfully completed at least 16 hours of any EPA-accredited or EPA-authorized State or Tribal-accredited lead-specific training for instructors of lead-based paint activities courses or 8 hours of any EPA-accredited or EPA-authorized State or Tribal-accredited lead-specific training for instructors of renovator or dust sampling technician courses; and


(iii) Demonstrated experience, education, or training in lead or asbestos abatement, painting, carpentry, renovation, remodeling, occupational safety and health, or industrial hygiene.


(3) The principal instructor shall be responsible for the organization of the course, course delivery, and oversight of the teaching of all course material. The training manager may designate guest instructors as needed for a portion of the course to provide instruction specific to the lecture, hands-on activities, or work practice components of a course. However, the principal instructor is primarily responsible for teaching the course materials and must be present to provide instruction (or oversight of portions of the course taught by guest instructors) for the course for which he has been designated the principal instructor.


(4) The following documents shall be recognized by EPA as evidence that training managers and principal instructors have the education, work experience, training requirements or demonstrated experience, specifically listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. This documentation must be submitted with the accreditation application and retained by the training program as required by the recordkeeping requirements contained in paragraph (i) of this section. Those documents include the following:


(i) Official academic transcripts or diploma as evidence of meeting the education requirements.


(ii) Resumes, letters of reference, or documentation of work experience, as evidence of meeting the work experience requirements.


(iii) Certificates from train-the-trainer courses and lead-specific training courses, as evidence of meeting the training requirements.


(5) The training program shall ensure the availability of, and provide adequate facilities for, the delivery of the lecture, course test, hands-on training, and assessment activities. This includes providing training equipment that reflects current work practices and maintaining or updating the equipment and facilities as needed.


(6) To become accredited in the following disciplines, the training program shall provide training courses that meet the following training requirements:


(i) The inspector course shall last a minimum of 24 training hours, with a minimum of 8 hours devoted to hands-on training activities. The minimum curriculum requirements for the inspector course are contained in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(ii) The risk assessor course shall last a minimum of 16 training hours, with a minimum of 4 hours devoted to hands-on training activities. The minimum curriculum requirements for the risk assessor course are contained in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(iii) The supervisor course shall last a minimum of 32 training hours, with a minimum of 8 hours devoted to hands-on activities. The minimum curriculum requirements for the supervisor course are contained in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(iv) The project designer course shall last a minimum of 8 training hours. The minimum curriculum requirements for the project designer course are contained in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.


(v) The abatement worker course shall last a minimum of 16 training hours, with a minimum of 8 hours devoted to hands-on training activities. The minimum curriculum requirements for the abatement worker course are contained in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(vi) The renovator course must last a minimum of 8 training hours, with a minimum of 2 hours devoted to hands-on training activities. The minimum curriculum requirements for the renovator course are contained in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.


(vii) The dust sampling technician course must last a minimum of 8 training hours, with a minimum of 2 hours devoted to hands-on training activities. The minimum curriculum requirements for the dust sampling technician course are contained in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(viii) Electronic learning and other alternative course delivery methods are permitted for the classroom portion of renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses but not the hands-on portion of these courses, or for final course tests or proficiency tests described in paragraph (c)(7) of this section. Electronic learning courses must comply with the following requirements:


(A) A unique identifier must be assigned to each student for them to use to launch and re-launch the course.


(B) The training provider must track each student's course log-ins, launches, progress, and completion, and maintain these records in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.


(C) The course must include periodic knowledge checks equivalent to the number and content of the knowledge checks contained in EPA's model course, but at least 16 over the entire course. The knowledge checks must be successfully completed before the student can go on to the next module.


(D) There must be a test of at least 20 questions at the end of the electronic learning portion of the course, of which 80% must be answered correctly by the student for successful completion of the electronic learning portion of the course. The test must be designed so that students to do not receive feedback on their test answers until after they have completed and submitted the test.


(E) Each student must be able to save or print a copy of an electronic learning course completion certificate. The electronic certificate must not be susceptible to easy editing.


(7) For each course offered, the training program shall conduct either a course test at the completion of the course, and if applicable, a hands-on skills assessment, or in the alternative, a proficiency test for that discipline. Each student must successfully complete the hands-on skills assessment and receive a passing score on the course test to pass any course, or successfully complete a proficiency test.


(i) The training manager is responsible for maintaining the validity and integrity of the hands-on skills assessment or proficiency test to ensure that it accurately evaluates the trainees' performance of the work practices and procedures associated with the course topics contained in paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) The training manager is responsible for maintaining the validity and integrity of the course test to ensure that it accurately evaluates the trainees' knowledge and retention of the course topics.


(iii) The course test shall be developed in accordance with the test blueprint submitted with the training accreditation application.


(8) The training program shall issue unique course completion certificates to each individual who passes the training course. The course completion certificate shall include:


(i) The name, a unique identification number, and address of the individual.


(ii) The name of the particular course that the individual completed.


(iii) Dates of course completion/test passage.


(iv) For initial inspector, risk assessor, project designer, supervisor, or abatement worker course completion certificates, the expiration date of interim certification, which is 6 months from the date of course completion.


(v) The name, address, and telephone number of the training program.


(vi) The language in which the course was taught.


(vii) For renovator and dust sampling technician course completion certificates, a photograph of the individual. The photograph must be an accurate and recognizable image of the individual. As reproduced on the certificate, the photograph must not be smaller than 1 square inch.


(viii) For renovator course completion certificates, the expiration date of certification.


(9) The training manager shall develop and implement a quality control plan. The plan shall be used to maintain and improve the quality of the training program over time. This plan shall contain at least the following elements:


(i) Procedures for periodic revision of training materials and the course test to reflect innovations in the field.


(ii) Procedures for the training manager's annual review of principal instructor competency.


(10) Courses offered by the training program must teach the work practice standards contained in § 745.85 or § 745.227, as applicable, in such a manner that trainees are provided with the knowledge needed to perform the renovations or lead-based paint activities they will be responsible for conducting.


(11) The training manager shall be responsible for ensuring that the training program complies at all times with all of the requirements in this section.


(12) The training manager shall allow EPA to audit the training program to verify the contents of the application for accreditation as described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(13) The training manager must provide notification of renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses offered.


(i) The training manager must provide EPA with notification of all renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses offered except for any renovator course without hands-on training delivered via electronic learning. The original notification must be received by EPA at least 7 business days prior to the start date of any renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities course.


(ii) The training manager must provide EPA updated notification when renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses will begin on a date other than the start date specified in the original notification, as follows:


(A) For renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses beginning prior to the start date provided to EPA, an updated notification must be received by EPA at least 7 business days before the new start date.


(B) For renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses beginning after the start date provided to EPA, an updated notification must be received by EPA at least 2 business days before the start date provided to EPA.


(iii) The training manager must update EPA of any change in location of renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses at least 7 business days prior to the start date provided to EPA.


(iv) The training manager must update EPA regarding any course cancellations, or any other change to the original notification. Updated notifications must be received by EPA at least 2 business days prior to the start date provided to EPA.


(v) Each notification, including updates, must include the following:


(A) Notification type (original, update, cancellation).


(B) Training program name, EPA accreditation number, address, and telephone number.


(C) Course discipline, type (initial/refresher), and the language in which instruction will be given.


(D) Date(s) and time(s) of training.


(E) Training location(s) telephone number, and address.


(F) Principal instructor's name.


(G) Training manager's name and signature.


(vi) Notification must be accomplished electronically. Instructions can be obtained online at *https://www.epa.gov/lead* or from the NLIC at 1-800-424-LEAD (5323). Hearing- or speech-impaired persons may reach this telephone number through TTY by calling the toll-free Federal Communications Commission's Telecommunications Relay Service at 711.


(vii) Renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses must not begin on a date, or at a location other than that specified in the original notification unless an updated notification identifying a new start date or location is submitted, in which case the course must begin on the new start date and/or location specified in the updated notification.


(viii) No training program shall provide renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses without first notifying EPA of such activities in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph.


(14) The training manager must provide notification following completion of renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities courses.


(i) The training manager must provide EPA notification after the completion of any renovator, dust sampling, or lead-based paint activities course. This notification must be received by EPA no later than 10 business days following course completion. Notifications for any e-learning renovator refresher course that does not include hands-on training must be submitted via the Central Data Exchange no later than the 10th day of the month and include all students trained in the previous month.


(ii) The notification must include the following:


(A) Training program name, EPA accreditation number, address, and telephone number.


(B) Course discipline and type (initial/refresher).


(C) Date(s) of training.


(D) The following information for each student who took the course:


(*1*) Name.


(*2*) Address.


(*3*) Date of birth.


(*4*) Course completion certificate number.


(*5*) Course test score.


(*6*) For renovator or dust sampling technician courses, a digital photograph of the student.


(*7*) For renovator refresher courses, the expiration date of certification.


(E) Training manager's name and signature.


(iii) Notification must be accomplished electronically. Instructions can be obtained online at *https://www.epa.gov/lead* or from the NLIC at 1-800-424-LEAD (5323).




(d) *Minimum training curriculum requirements.* A training program accredited by EPA to offer lead-based paint courses in the specific disciplines listed in this paragraph (d) must ensure that its courses of study include, at a minimum, the following course topics.


(1) *Inspector.* Instruction in the topics described in paragraphs (d)(1)(iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) of this section must be included in the hands-on portion of the course.


(i) Role and responsibilities of an inspector.


(ii) Background information on lead and its adverse health effects.


(iii) Background information on Federal, State, and local regulations and guidance that pertains to lead-based paint and lead- based paint activities.


(iv) Lead-based paint inspection methods, including selection of rooms and components for sampling or testing.


(v) Paint, dust, and soil sampling methodologies.


(vi) Action levels and testing, including random sampling.




(vii) Preparation of the final inspection report.


(viii) Recordkeeping.


(2) *Risk assessor.* Instruction in the topics described in paragraphs (d)(2)(iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section must be included in the hands-on portion of the course.


(i) Role and responsibilities of a risk assessor.


(ii) Collection of background information to perform a risk assessment.


(iii) Sources of environmental lead contamination such as paint, surface dust and soil, water, air, packaging, and food.


(iv) Visual inspection for the purposes of identifying potential sources of lead-based paint hazards.


(v) Lead hazard screen protocol.


(vi) Sampling for other sources of lead exposure.


(vii) Interpretation of lead-based paint and other lead sampling results, including all applicable Federal or State guidance or regulations pertaining to lead-based paint hazards.


(viii) Development of hazard control options, the role of interim controls, and operations and maintenance activities to reduce lead-based paint hazards.


(ix) Preparation of a final risk assessment report.


(3) *Supervisor.* Instruction in the topics described in paragraphs (d)(3)(v), (vii), (viii), (ix), and (x) of this section must be included in the hands-on portion of the course.


(i) Role and responsibilities of a supervisor.


(ii) Background information on lead and its adverse health effects.


(iii) Background information on Federal, State, and local regulations and guidance that pertain to lead-based paint abatement.


(iv) Liability and insurance issues relating to lead-based paint abatement.


(v) Risk assessment and inspection report interpretation.


(vi) Development and implementation of an occupant protection plan and abatement report.


(vii) Lead-based paint hazard recognition and control.


(viii) Lead-based paint abatement and lead-based paint hazard reduction methods, including restricted practices.


(ix) Interior dust abatement/cleanup or lead-based paint hazard control and reduction methods.


(x) Soil and exterior dust abatement or lead-based paint hazard control and reduction methods.


(xi) Action levels and testing.




(xii) Cleanup and waste disposal.


(xiii) Recordkeeping.


(4) *Project designer.* (i) Role and responsibilities of a project designer.


(ii) Development and implementation of an occupant protection plan for large-scale abatement projects.


(iii) Lead-based paint abatement and lead-based paint hazard reduction methods, including restricted practices for large-scale abatement projects.


(iv) Interior dust abatement/cleanup or lead hazard control and reduction methods for large-scale abatement projects.


(v) Action levels and testing for large scale abatement projects.




(vi) Integration of lead-based paint abatement methods with modernization and rehabilitation projects for large scale abatement projects.


(5) *Abatement worker.* Instruction in the topics described in paragraphs (d)(5)(iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) of this section must be included in the hands-on portion of the course.


(i) Role and responsibilities of an abatement worker.


(ii) Background information on lead and its adverse health effects.


(iii) Background information on Federal, State and local regulations and guidance that pertain to lead-based paint abatement.


(iv) Lead-based paint hazard recognition and control.


(v) Lead-based paint abatement and lead-based paint hazard reduction methods, including restricted practices.


(vi) Interior dust abatement methods/cleanup or lead-based paint hazard reduction.


(vii) Soil and exterior dust abatement methods or lead-based paint hazard reduction.


(6) *Renovator.* Instruction in the topics described in paragraphs (d)(6)(iv), (vi), (vii), and (viii) of this section must be included in the hands-on portion of the course.


(i) Role and responsibility of a renovator.


(ii) Background information on lead and its adverse health effects.


(iii) Background information on EPA, HUD, OSHA, and other Federal, State, and local regulations and guidance that pertains to lead-based paint and renovation activities.


(iv) Procedures for using acceptable test kits to determine whether paint is lead-based paint.


(v) Procedures for collecting a paint chip sample and sending it to a laboratory recognized by EPA under section 405(b) of TSCA.


(vi) Renovation methods to minimize the creation of dust and lead-based paint hazards.


(vii) Interior and exterior containment and cleanup methods.


(viii) Methods to ensure that the renovation has been properly completed, including cleaning verification and clearance testing.


(ix) Waste handling and disposal.


(x) Providing on-the-job training to other workers.


(xi) Record preparation.


(7) *Dust sampling technician.* Instruction in the topics described in paragraphs (d)(6)(iv) and (vi) of this section must be included in the hands-on portion of the course.


(i) Role and responsibility of a dust sampling technician.


(ii) Background information on lead and its adverse health effects.


(iii) Background information on Federal, State, and local regulations and guidance that pertains to lead-based paint and renovation activities.


(iv) Dust sampling methodologies.


(v) Action levels and testing.




(vi) Report preparation.


(e) *Requirements for the accreditation of refresher training programs.* A training program may seek accreditation to offer refresher training courses in any of the following disciplines: Inspector, risk assessor, supervisor, project designer, abatement worker, renovator, and dust sampling technician. A training program accredited by EPA to offer refresher training must meet the following minimum requirements:


(1) Each refresher course shall review the curriculum topics of the full-length courses listed under paragraph (d) of this section, as appropriate. In addition, to become accredited to offer refresher training courses, training programs shall ensure that their courses of study include, at a minimum, the following:


(i) An overview of current safety practices relating to lead-based paint in general, as well as specific information pertaining to the appropriate discipline.


(ii) Current laws and regulations relating to lead-based paint in general, as well as specific information pertaining to the appropriate discipline.


(iii) Current technologies relating to lead-based paint in general, as well as specific information pertaining to the appropriate discipline.


(2) Refresher courses for inspector, risk assessor, supervisor, and abatement worker must last a minimum of 8 training hours. Refresher courses for project designer, renovator, and dust sampling technician must last a minimum of 4 training hours. Refresher courses for all disciplines except renovator and project designer must include a hands-on component. Renovators must take a refresher course that includes hands-on training at least every other recertification.


(3) Except for renovator and project designer courses, for all other courses offered, the training program shall conduct a hands-on assessment. With the exception of project designer courses, the training program shall conduct a course test at the completion of the course. Renovators must take a refresher course that includes hands-on training at least every other recertification.


(4) A training program may apply for accreditation of a refresher course concurrently with its application for accreditation of the corresponding training course as described in paragraph (b) of this section. If so, EPA shall use the approval procedure described in paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, the minimum requirements contained in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5), (c)(6)(viii) and (c)(7) through (14), and (e)(1) through (3) of this section shall also apply.


(5) A training program seeking accreditation to offer refresher training courses only shall submit an electronic application to EPA containing the following information:


(i) The refresher training program's name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) A list of courses for which it is applying for accreditation.


(iii) The name and documentation of the qualifications of the training program manager.


(iv) The name(s) and documentation of the qualifications of the principal instructor(s).


(v) A statement signed by the training program manager certifying that the refresher training program meets the minimum requirements established in paragraph (c) of this section, except for the requirements in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. If a training program uses EPA-developed model training materials, or training materials approved by a State or Indian Tribe that has been authorized by EPA under § 745.324 to develop its refresher training course materials, the training manager shall include a statement certifying that, as well.


(vi) If the refresher training course materials are not based on EPA-developed model training materials, the training program's application for accreditation shall include:


(A) A copy of the student and instructor manuals to be used for each course.


(B) A copy of the course agenda for each course.


(vii) All refresher training programs shall include in their application for accreditation the following:


(A) A description of the facilities and equipment to be used for lecture and hands-on training.


(B) A copy of the course test blueprint for each course.


(C) A description of the activities and procedures that will be used for conducting the assessment of hands-on skills for each course (if applicable).


(D) A copy of the quality control plan as described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.


(viii) The requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5), (c)(6)(viii) and (c)(7) through (14) of this section apply to refresher training providers.


(ix) If a refresher training program meets the requirements listed in this paragraph, then EPA shall approve the application for accreditation no more than 180 days after receiving a complete application from the refresher training program. In the case of approval, a certificate of accreditation shall be sent to the applicant. In the case of disapproval, a letter describing the reasons for disapproval shall be sent to the applicant. Prior to disapproval, EPA may, at its discretion, work with the applicant to address inadequacies in the application for accreditation. EPA may also request additional materials retained by the refresher training program under paragraph (i) of this section. If a refresher training program's application is disapproved, the program may reapply for accreditation at any time.


(f) *Re-accreditation of training programs.* (1) Unless re-accredited, a training program's accreditation, including refresher training accreditation, shall expire 4 years after the date of issuance. If a training program meets the requirements of this section, the training program shall be reaccredited.


(2) A training program seeking re-accreditation shall submit an electronic application to EPA no later than 180 days before its accreditation expires. If a training program does not submit its application for re-accreditation by that date, EPA cannot guarantee that the program will be re-accredited before the end of the accreditation period.




(3) The training program's application for re-accreditation shall contain:


(i) The training program's name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) A list of courses for which it is applying for re-accreditation.


(iii) The name and qualifications of the training program manager.


(iv) The name(s) and qualifications of the principal instructor(s).


(v) A description of any changes to the training facility, equipment or course materials since its last application was approved that adversely affects the students' ability to learn.


(vi) A statement signed by the program manager stating:


(A) That the training program complies at all times with all requirements in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, as applicable; and


(B) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of paragraph (i) of this section shall be followed.


(vii) A payment of appropriate fees in accordance with § 745.238.


(4) Upon request, the training program shall allow EPA to audit the training program to verify the contents of the application for re-accreditation as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(g) *Suspension, revocation, and modification of accredited training programs.* (1) EPA may, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, suspend, revoke, or modify training program accreditation, including refresher training accreditation, if a training program, training manager, or other person with supervisory authority over the training program has:


(i) Misrepresented the contents of a training course to EPA and/or the student population.


(ii) Failed to submit required information or notifications in a timely manner.


(iii) Failed to maintain required records.


(iv) Falsified accreditation records, instructor qualifications, or other accreditation-related information or documentation.


(v) Failed to comply with the training standards and requirements in this section.


(vi) Failed to comply with Federal, State, or local lead-based paint statutes or regulations.


(vii) Made false or misleading statements to EPA in its application for accreditation or re-accreditation which EPA relied upon in approving the application.


(2) In addition to an administrative or judicial finding of violation, execution of a consent agreement in settlement of an enforcement action constitutes, for purposes of this section, evidence of a failure to comply with relevant statutes or regulations.


(h) *Procedures for suspension, revocation or modification of training program accreditation.* (1) Prior to taking action to suspend, revoke, or modify the accreditation of a training program, EPA shall notify the affected entity in writing of the following:


(i) The legal and factual basis for the suspension, revocation, or modification.


(ii) The anticipated commencement date and duration of the suspension, revocation, or modification.


(iii) Actions, if any, which the affected entity may take to avoid suspension, revocation, or modification, or to receive accreditation in the future.


(iv) The opportunity and method for requesting a hearing prior to final EPA action to suspend, revoke or modify accreditation.


(v) Any additional information, as appropriate, which EPA may provide.


(2) If a hearing is requested by the accredited training program, EPA shall:


(i) Provide the affected entity an opportunity to offer written statements in response to EPA's assertions of the legal and factual basis for its proposed action, and any other explanations, comments, and arguments it deems relevant to the proposed action.


(ii) Provide the affected entity such other procedural opportunities as EPA may deem appropriate to ensure a fair and impartial hearing.


(iii) Appoint an official of EPA as Presiding Officer to conduct the hearing. No person shall serve as Presiding Officer if he or she has had any prior connection with the specific matter.


(3) The Presiding Officer appointed pursuant to paragraph (h)(2) of this section shall:


(i) Conduct a fair, orderly, and impartial hearing within 90 days of the request for a hearing.


(ii) Consider all relevant evidence, explanation, comment, and argument submitted.


(iii) Notify the affected entity in writing within 90 days of completion of the hearing of his or her decision and order. Such an order is a final agency action which may be subject to judicial review.


(4) If EPA determines that the public health, interest, or welfare warrants immediate action to suspend the accreditation of any training program prior to the opportunity for a hearing, it shall:


(i) Notify the affected entity of its intent to immediately suspend training program accreditation for the reasons listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If a suspension, revocation, or modification notice has not previously been issued pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, it shall be issued at the same time the emergency suspension notice is issued.


(ii) Notify the affected entity in writing of the grounds for the immediate suspension and why it is necessary to suspend the entity's accreditation before an opportunity for a suspension, revocation or modification hearing.


(iii) Notify the affected entity of the anticipated commencement date and duration of the immediate suspension.


(iv) Notify the affected entity of its right to request a hearing on the immediate suspension within 15 days of the suspension taking place and the procedures for the conduct of such a hearing.


(5) Any notice, decision, or order issued by EPA under this section, any transcripts or other verbatim record of oral testimony, and any documents filed by an accredited training program in a hearing under this section shall be available to the public, except as otherwise provided by section 14 of TSCA or by 40 CFR part 2. Any such hearing at which oral testimony is presented shall be open to the public, except that the Presiding Officer may exclude the public to the extent necessary to allow presentation of information which may be entitled to confidential treatment under section 14 of TSCA or 40 CFR part 2.


(6) The public shall be notified of the suspension, revocation, modification or reinstatement of a training program's accreditation through appropriate mechanisms.


(7) EPA shall maintain a list of parties whose accreditation has been suspended, revoked, modified or reinstated.




(i) *Training program recordkeeping requirements.* (1) Accredited training programs shall maintain, and make available to EPA, upon request, the following records:


(i) All documents specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section that demonstrate the qualifications listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section of the training manager and principal instructors.


(ii) Current curriculum/course materials and documents reflecting any changes made to these materials.


(iii) The course test blueprint.


(iv) Information regarding how the hands-on assessment is conducted including, but not limited to:


(A) Who conducts the assessment.


(B) How the skills are graded.


(C) What facilities are used.


(D) The pass/fail rate.


(v) The quality control plan as described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.


(vi) Results of the students' hands-on skills assessments and course tests, and a record of each student's course completion certificate.


(vii) Any other material not listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(vi) of this section that was submitted to EPA as part of the program's application for accreditation.


(viii) For renovator refresher and dust sampling technician refresher courses, a copy of each trainee's prior course completion certificate showing that each trainee was eligible to take the refresher course.


(ix) For course modules delivered in an electronic format, a record of each student's log-ins, launches, progress, and completion, and a copy of the electronic learning completion certificate for each student.


(2) The training program must retain records pertaining to renovator, dust sampling technician and lead-based paint activities courses at the address specified on the training program accreditation application (or as modified in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section) for the following minimum periods:


(i) Records pertaining to lead-based paint activities courses must be retained for a minimum of 3 years and 6 months.


(ii) [Reserved]


(iii) Records pertaining to renovator or dust sampling technician courses offered on or after April 22, 2010 must be retained for a minimum of 5 years.


(3) The training program shall notify EPA in writing within 30 days of changing the address specified on its training program accreditation application or transferring the records from that address.


(j) *Amendment of accreditation.* (1) A training program must amend its accreditation within 90 days of the date a change occurs to information included in the program's most recent application. If the training program fails to amend its accreditation within 90 days of the date the change occurs, the program may not provide renovator, dust sampling technician, or lead-based paint activities training until its accreditation is amended.


(2) To amend an accreditation, a training program must electronically submit a completed “Accreditation Application for Training Providers,” signed by an authorized agent of the training provider, noting on the form that it is submitted as an amendment and indicating the information that has changed.




(3) *Training managers, principal instructors, permanent training locations.* If the amendment includes a new training program manager, any new or additional principal instructor(s), or any new permanent training location(s), the training provider is not permitted to provide training under the new training manager or offer courses taught by any new principal instructor(s) or at the new training location(s) until EPA either approves the amendment or 30 days have elapsed, whichever occurs earlier. Except:


(i) If the amendment includes a new training program manager or new or additional principal instructor that was identified in a training provider accreditation application that EPA has already approved under this section, the training provider may begin to provide training under the new training manager or offer courses taught by the new principal instructor on an interim basis as soon as the provider submits the amendment to EPA. The training provider may continue to provide training under the new training manager or offer courses taught by the new principal instructor if EPA approves the amendment or if EPA does not disapprove the amendment within 30 days.


(ii) If the amendment includes a new permanent training location, the training provider may begin to provide training at the new permanent training location on an interim basis as soon as the provider submits the amendment to EPA. The training provider may continue to provide training at the new permanent training location if EPA approves the amendment or if EPA does not disapprove the amendment within 30 days.



---

[N] [76 FR 47939, Aug. 5, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 7995, Feb. 17, 2016; 89 FR 89459, Nov. 12, 2024; 89 FR 101490, Dec. 16, 2024]




