# § 60.504a   Monitoring requirements.

(a) *Monitoring requirements for thermal oxidation systems complying with the combustion zone temperature operating limit.* Install, operate, and maintain a CPMS for measuring the combustion zone temperature as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Install the temperature CPMS in the combustion (flame) zone or in the exhaust gas stream as close as practical to the combustion burners in a position that provides a representative temperature of the combustion zone of the thermal oxidation system.


(2) The temperature CPMS must be capable of measuring temperature with an accuracy of ±1 percent over the normal range of temperatures measured.


(3) The temperature CPMS must be capable of recording the temperature at least once every 5 minutes and calculating hourly block averages that include only those 5-minute periods in which liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks.


(4) At least quarterly, inspect all components for integrity and all electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion, unless the CPMS has a redundant temperature sensor.


(5) Conduct calibration checks at least annually and conduct calibration checks following any period of more than 24 hours throughout which the temperature exceeded the manufacturer's specified maximum rated temperature or install a new temperature sensor.


(b) *Monitoring requirements for vapor recovery systems.* Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS for measuring the concentration of TOC in the atmospheric vent from the vapor recovery system as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Locate the sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location such that you obtain representative measurements of emissions from the vapor recovery system.


(1) The requirements of Performance Specification 8 of appendix B to this part, or, if the CEMS uses a flame ionization detector, Performance Specification 8A of appendix B to this part, the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to this part, and the procedures under § 60.13 must be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS. For CEMS certified using Performance Specification 8A of appendix B, conduct the RATA required under Procedure 1 according to the requirements in § 60.503a(d). As required by § 60.503a(b)(3), conduct annual performance evaluations of each TOC CEMS according to the requirements in § 60.503a(d). Conduct accuracy determinations quarterly and calibration drift tests daily in accordance with Procedure 1 in appendix F.


(2) The span value of the TOC CEMS must be approximately 2 times the applicable emission limit.


(c) *Monitoring requirements for flares and thermal oxidation systems for which flare monitoring alternative is provided.* Install, operate, and maintain CPMS for flares used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(3), including monitors used for gasoline and total liquid product loading rates, following the requirements specified in § 63.671 of this chapter as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and conduct visible emission observations as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(1) Substitute “pilot flame or flare flame” for each occurrence of “pilot flame.”


(2) You may elect to determine compositional analysis for net heating value with a continuous process mass spectrometer without the use of a gas chromatograph. If you choose to determine compositional analysis for net heating value with a continuous process mass spectrometer, then you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) You must meet the requirements in § 63.671(e)(2) of this chapter. You may augment the minimum list of calibration gas components found in § 63.671(e)(2) with compounds found during a pre-survey or known to be in the gas through process knowledge.


(ii) Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.


(iii) For unknown gas components that have similar analytical mass fragments to calibration compounds, you may report the unknowns as an increase in the overlapped calibration gas compound. For unknown compounds that produce mass fragments that do not overlap calibration compounds, you may use the response factor for the nearest molecular weight hydrocarbon in the calibration mix to quantify the unknown component's net heating value of flare vent gas (NHV_vg_).


(iv) You may use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify any unknown components detected with a higher molecular weight than n-pentane.


(v) You must perform an initial calibration to identify mass fragment overlap and response factors for the target compounds.


(vi) You must meet applicable requirements in Performance Specification 9 of appendix B to this part for continuous monitoring system acceptance including, but not limited to, performing an initial multi-point calibration check at three concentrations following the procedure in section 10.1 of Performance Specification 9 and performing the periodic calibration requirements listed for gas chromatographs in table 13 to part 63, subpart CC, of this chapter, for the process mass spectrometer. You may use the alternative sampling line temperature allowed under Net Heating Value by Gas Chromatograph in table 13 to part 63, subpart CC.


(vii) The average instrument calibration error (CE) for each calibration compound at any calibration concentration must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for each component in the calibration blend must be calculated using the following equation:


(3) If you use a gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer for compositional analysis for net heating value, then you may choose to use the CE of net heating value (NHV) measured versus the cylinder tag value NHV as the measure of agreement for daily calibration and quarterly audits in lieu of determining the compound-specific CE. The CE for NHV at any calibration level must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for NHV must be calculated using the following equation:


(4) If visible emissions are observed for more than one continuous minute during normal duties, visible emissions observation using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part must be conducted for 2 hours or until 5-minutes of visible emissions are observed.


(d) *Pressure CPMS requirements.* The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure the pressure of the vapor collection system to determine compliance with the standard in § 60.502a(h) as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Install a pressure CPMS (liquid manometer, magnehelic gauge, or equivalent instrument), capable of measuring up to 500 mm of water gauge pressure with ±2.5 mm of water precision on the terminal's vapor collection system at a pressure tap located as close as possible to the connection with the gasoline cargo tank. If necessary to obtain representative loading pressures, install pressure CPMS for each loading rack.


(2) Check the calibration of the pressure CPMS at least annually. Check the calibration of the pressure CPMS following any period of more than 24 hours throughout which the pressure exceeded the manufacturer's specified maximum rated pressure or install a new pressure sensor.


(3) At least quarterly, visually inspect components of the pressure CPMS for integrity, oxidation and galvanic corrosion, unless the system has a redundant pressure sensor.


(4) The output of the pressure CPMS must be reviewed each operating day to ensure that the pressure readings fluctuate as expected during loading of gasoline cargo tanks to verify the pressure taps are not plugged. Plugged pressure taps must be unplugged or otherwise repaired within 24 hours or prior to the next gasoline cargo tank loading, whichever time period is longer.


(e) *Limited alternative requirements for vapor recovery systems.* If the CEMS used for measuring the concentration of TOC in the atmospheric vent from the vapor recovery system as specified in paragraph (b) of this section requires maintenance such that it is off-line for more than 15 minutes, you may follow the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section and monitor product loading quantities and regeneration cycle parameters as an alternative to the monitoring requirement in paragraph (b) for no more than 240 hours in a calendar year.


(1) Determine the quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for the past 10 adsorption cycles prior to the CEMS going off-line and select the smallest of these values as your product loading quantity operating limit.


(2) Determine the vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles used for the past 10 desorption cycles prior to the CEMS going off-line. You must operate vapor recovery system desorption cycles as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The vacuum pressure for each desorption cycle must be at or above the average vacuum pressure from the past 10 desorption cycles. Note: a higher vacuum means a lower absolute pressure.


(ii) Purge gas quantity used for each desorption cycle must be at or above the average quantity of purge gas used from the past 10 desorption cycles.


(iii) Duration of the vacuum/purge cycle for each desorption cycle must be at or above the average duration of the vacuum/purge cycle used from the past 10 desorption cycles.






