# § 457.1240   Quality measurement and improvement.

(a) *Scope.* This section sets forth requirements related to quality assessment and performance improvement that the State must meet in contracting with an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or certain PCCM entities.


(b) *Quality assessment and performance improvement program.* (1) The State must require, through its contracts, that each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP establish and implement an ongoing comprehensive quality assessment and performance improvement program for the services it furnishes to its enrollees, in accordance with the requirements and standards in § 438.330 of this chapter, except that the terms of § 438.330(d)(4) of this chapter (related to dually eligible beneficiaries) do not apply.


(2) In the case of a contract with a PCCM entity described in paragraph (f) of this section, § 438.330(b)(2) and (3), (c), and (e) of this chapter apply.


(c) *State review of the accreditation status of MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs.* The State must review the accreditation status of each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP in accordance with the requirements as set forth in § 438.332 of this chapter.


(d) *Managed care quality rating system.* The State must determine a quality rating or ratings for each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP in accordance with the requirements set forth in subpart G of part 438 of this chapter, except that references to dually eligible beneficiaries, a beneficiary support system, and the terms related to consultation with the Medical Care Advisory Committee do not apply.


(e) *Managed care quality strategy.* The State must draft and implement a written quality strategy for assessing and improving the quality of health care and services furnished CHIP enrollees as described in § 438.340 of this chapter, except that the reference to consultation with the Medical Care Advisory Committee described in § 438.340(c)(1)(i) of this chapter does not apply.


(f) *Applicability to PCCM entities.* For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section, a PCCM entity described in this paragraph is a PCCM entity whose contract with the State provides for shared savings, incentive payments or other financial reward for improved quality outcomes.



---

[N] [81 FR 27897, May 6, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 40, Jan. 3, 2017; 85 FR 72842, Nov. 13, 2020; 89 FR 41285, May 10, 2024]




