# § 22.50   Eagle scientific and exhibition permits.

We may, under the provisions of this section, issue a permit authorizing the taking, possession, transportation within the United States, or transportation into or out of the United States of lawfully possessed bald eagles or golden eagles, or their parts, nests, or eggs for the scientific or exhibition purposes of public museums, public scientific societies, or public zoological parks. A permit is not required if your activities fall within the authorization for exhibition use of eagle specimens (§ 22.15). We will not issue a permit under the regulations in this section that authorizes the transport into or out of the United States of any live bald or golden eagles, or any viable eggs of these birds.












(a) *How do I apply if I want a permit for scientific and exhibition purposes?* (1) You must submit applications for permits to take, possess, or transport within the United States lawfully acquired live or dead bald or golden eagles, or their parts, nests, or live or dead eggs for scientific or exhibition purposes to the appropriate Regional Director—Attention: Migratory Bird Permit Office. You can find addresses for the Regional Directors in 50 CFR 2.2.


(2) If you want a permit to *transport into or out of the United States* any lawfully acquired dead bald or golden eagles or their parts, nests, or dead eggs for scientific or exhibition purposes, you must submit your application to the Office of Management Authority. Your application must contain all the information necessary for the issuance of a CITES permit. You must also comply with all the requirements in part 23 of this subchapter before international travel. Mail should be sent to the Division of Management Authority at the address provided at 50 CFR 2.1(b).


(3) Your application for any permit under this section must also contain the information required under this section, § 13.12(a) of this subchapter, and the following information:


(i) Species of eagle and number of such birds, nests, or eggs proposed to be taken, possessed, or transported;


(ii) Specific locality in which taking is proposed, if any;


(iii) Method taking proposed, if any;


(iv) If not taken, the source of eagles and other circumstances surrounding the proposed acquisition or transportation;


(v) Name and address of the public museum, public scientific societies, or public zoological park for which they are intended;


(vi) Complete explanation and justification of request, nature of project or study, number of specimens now at institution, reason these are inadequate, and other appropriate explanations.


(b) *What are the conditions?* In addition to the general conditions in part 13 of this subchapter B, permits to take, possess, transport within the United States, or transport into or out of the United States bald or golden eagles, or their parts, nests, or eggs for scientific or exhibition purposes, are also subject to the following condition: In addition to any reporting requirement specifically noted in the permit, you must submit a report of activities conducted under the permit to the Regional Director—Attention: Migratory Bird Permit Office, within 30 days after the permit expires.


(c) *How do we evaluate your application for a permit?* We will conduct an investigation and will only issue a permit to take, possess, transport within the United States, or transport into or out of the United States bald or golden eagles, or their parts, nests, or eggs for scientific or exhibition purposes when we determine that the taking, possession, or transportation is compatible with the preservation of the bald eagle and golden eagle. In making this determination, we will consider, among other criteria, the following:


(1) The direct or indirect effect which issuing such permit would be likely to have upon the wild populations of bald and golden eagles;


(2) Whether the expertise, facilities, or other resources available to the applicant appear adequate to successfully accomplish the objectives stated in the application;


(3) Whether the justification of the purpose for which the permit is being requested is adequate to justify the removal of the eagle from the wild or otherwise change its status; and


(4) Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the permit is being requested for *bona fide* scientific or exhibition purposes of public museums, public scientific societies, or public zoological parks.


(d) *Tenure of permits.* The tenure of permits to take bald or golden eagles for scientific or exhibition purposes shall be that shown on the face of the permit.



---

[N] [39 FR 1183, Jan. 4, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 52638, Oct. 1, 1998; 64 FR 50472, Sept. 17, 1999; 79 FR 43966, July 29, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 884, Jan. 7, 2022; 89 FR 107043, Dec. 31, 2024]




