# § 405.970   Timeframe for making a reconsideration following a contractor redetermination.

(a) *General rule.* Within 60 calendar days of the date the QIC receives a timely filed request for reconsideration following a contractor redetermination or any additional time provided by paragraph (b) of this section, the QIC mails, or otherwise transmits to the parties at their last known addresses, written notice of—


(1) The reconsideration;


(2) Its inability to complete its review within 60 calendar days in accordance with paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section; or


(3) Dismissal.


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) If a QIC grants an appellant's request for an extension of the 180 calendar day filing deadline made in accordance with § 405.962(b), the QIC's 60 calendar day decision-making timeframe begins on the date the QIC receives the late filed request for reconsideration following a contractor redetermination, or when the request for an extension that meets the requirements of § 405.962(b) is granted, whichever is later.


(2) If a QIC receives timely requests for reconsideration following a contractor redetermination from multiple parties, consistent with § 405.964(c), the QIC must issue a reconsideration, notice that it cannot complete its review, or dismissal within 60 calendar days for each submission of the latest filed request.


(3) Each time a party submits additional evidence after the request for reconsideration following a contractor redetermination is filed, the QIC's 60 calendar day decisionmaking timeframe is extended by up to 14 calendar days for each submission, consistent with § 405.966(b).


(c) *Responsibilities of the QIC.* Within 60 calendar days of receiving a request for a reconsideration following a contractor redetermination, or any additional time provided for under paragraph (b) of this section, a QIC must take one of the following actions:


(1) Notify all parties of its reconsideration, consistent with § 405.976.


(2) Notify the parties that it cannot complete the reconsideration by the deadline specified in paragraph (b) of this section and offer the appellant the opportunity to escalate the appeal to OMHA. The QIC continues to process the reconsideration unless it receives a written request from the appellant to escalate the case to OMHA after the adjudication period has expired.


(d) *Responsibilities of the appellant.* If an appellant wishes to exercise the option of escalating the case to OMHA, the appellant must notify the QIC in writing.


(e) *Actions following appellant's notice.* (1) If the appellant fails to notify the QIC, or notifies the QIC that the appellant does not choose to escalate the case, the QIC completes its reconsideration following a contractor redetermination and notifies the appellant of its action consistent with § 405.972 or § 405.976.


(2) If the appellant notifies the QIC that the appellant wishes to escalate the case, the QIC must take one of the following actions within 5 calendar days of receipt of the notice or 5 calendar days from the end of the applicable adjudication period under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:


(i) Complete its reconsideration following a contractor redetermination and notify all parties of its decision consistent with § 405.972 or § 405.976.


(ii) Acknowledge the escalation notice in writing and forward the case file to OMHA.



---

[N] [70 FR 11472, Mar. 8, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 37702, June 30, 2005; 74 FR 65334, Dec. 9, 2009; 82 FR 5107, Jan. 17, 2017; 84 FR 19870, May 7, 2019]




