# § 1046.5   Designated Physician.

(a) *Responsibilities.* Designated Physicians are responsible for the conduct of medical examinations, evaluations, and medical certification of SOs and SPOs. Additionally, Designated Physicians are responsible for the supervision of physician extenders (e.g., physician's assistants, certified occupational health nurses, or nurse practitioners), as required by applicable state or local law. The Designated Physician must:


(1) Annually determine whether to approve an individual's participation in programmed physical readiness training programs required under this rule and determine the individual's ability to perform the physical readiness and PF qualification tests without undue risk. Medical approval must be obtained within thirty days prior to the individual's beginning such training or attempting the qualifying tests;


(2) With the assistance of a psychologist or psychiatrist meeting standards established by DOE, determine:


(i) An individual's medical capability, with or without reasonable accommodation, to perform the essential functions of PF job duties without creating a direct threat to the individual or others; and


(ii) Whether to certify that the individual meets the applicable medical and physical readiness standards as set forth herein for their position.


(3) Determine whether any portion of any medical examination may be performed by other qualified personnel, such as another physician or physician extenders;


(4) Be responsible for case management, including supervising, interpreting, and documenting PF personnel medical conditions; and


(5) Be familiar with the required essential functions of the job duties for PF personnel, as set forth in § 1046.11, and the physical readiness requirements as identified in § 1046.16.


(b) *Nominations.* The requirements of § 1046.4(b) and (c) must be followed by the individuals nominated for Designated Physician positions.


(c) *Approval in lieu of nomination.* Designated Physicians approved under the provisions of 10 CFR part 712, “Human Reliability Program,” will also satisfy the requirement for nomination to, and approval by, DOE/NNSA under this part. The employer must notify EHSS-1 through the ODFSA if the physician will be fulfilling the role of Designated Physician for this part in addition to fulfilling a role for another part (e.g., 10 CFR part 712). For NNSA the notification must be sent to the NNSA organization responsible for occupational health and safety with a courtesy copy to EHSS-1.


(d) *Self reporting.* The self-reporting requirements of § 1046.4(d) must be followed by incumbent Designated Physicians.



---

[N] [78 FR 55184, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 57083, Sept. 22, 2015; 88 FR 41295, June 26, 2023]




