# ยง 71.12   National fish hatcheries open for sport fishing.

The following hatcheries are open for sport fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional hatchery-specific regulations.


(a) *Abernathy Fish Technology Center.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the center.


(b) *Berkshire National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(1) Anglers must abide by posted signage.


(2) Anglers must remain at least 50 feet away from raceways and fish culture areas to maintain biosecurity of stocked fish populations.


(3) On the Konkapot River, we prohibit angling equipment, including, but not limited to, live bait, boots, and rods, near the areas described in paragraph (b)(2).


(4) We limit access to Outreach Pond to youth (ages 13 and younger), supervised by an adult at all times.


(5) We allow fishing on Outreach Pond during open hatchery hours only.


(6) We prohibit the use of baitfish, shiners, and minnows in the Outreach Pond.


(7) We prohibit all fishing methods of take besides rods on Outreach Pond.


(8) We allow a daily creel limit of three (3) fish per individual at Outreach Pond. There is no creel limit during fishing derbies.


(9) We prohibit fishing during the winter in Outreach Pond.


(10) We prohibit the use of all lead, including tackle containing lead, when fishing in Outreach Pond.


(c) *Craig Brook National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We only allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(d) *Dwight D. Eisenhower National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(1) Anglers must abide by posted signage.


(2) Anglers must remain at least 50 feet away from the water intake from Furnace Brook, raceways, and fish culture areas for safety and to maintain biosecurity of stocked fish populations.


(3) We prohibit angling equipment, including, but not limited to, live bait, boots, and rods, near the areas described in paragraph (d)(2).


(e) *Edenton National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(1) We allow fishing during open hatchery hours only.


(2) We prohibit the cleaning of fish on the hatchery.


(f) *Entiat National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery.


(g) *Green Lake National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery.


(h) *Harrison Lake National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(1) We only allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(2) We prohibit the use of nets for the capture of fish in Herring Creek.


(3) We prohibit the use of gasoline motors greater than 5 horsepower on watercraft.


(i) *Hotchkiss National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We prohibit the cleaning of fish on the hatchery.


(j) *Inks Dam National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery.


(k) *Lamar National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We only allow sport fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(l) *Leadville National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We prohibit the cleaning of fish on the hatchery. See ยง 71.11 for hatchery-specific hunting regulations for this hatchery.


(m) *Leavenworth National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery.


(n) *Little White Salmon National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We allow fishing after legal sunset, but the hatchery access road is closed from 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.


(o) *Orangeburg National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:


(1) We prohibit fishing after legal sunset.


(2) We prohibit the cleaning of fish on the hatchery.


(3) We prohibit motorized boats on the hatchery while fishing.


(p) *Spring Creek National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We only allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(q) *Tishomingo National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery.


(r) *Valley City National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following condition: We prohibit the cleaning of fish on the hatchery.


(s) *Willard National Fish Hatchery.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery.



---

[N] [84 FR 47790, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54146, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48883, Aug. 31, 2021]




