# ยง 63.1573   What are my monitoring alternatives?

(a) *What are the approved alternatives for measuring gas flow rate?* (1) You may use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for the catalytic regenerator exhaust gas flow rate for your catalytic cracking unit if the unit does not introduce any other gas streams into the catalyst regeneration vent (*i.e.,* complete combustion units with no additional combustion devices). You may also use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for the catalytic regenerator atmospheric exhaust gas flow rate for your catalytic reforming unit during the coke burn and rejuvenation cycles if the unit operates as a constant pressure system during these cycles. You may also use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for the gas flow rate exiting the catalyst regenerator to determine inlet velocity to the primary internal cyclones as required in ยง 63.1564(c)(5) regardless of the configuration of the catalytic regenerator exhaust vent downstream of the regenerator (*i.e.,* regardless of whether or not any other gas streams are introduced into the catalyst regeneration vent). Except, if you only use this alternative to demonstrate compliance with ยง 63.1564(c)(5), you shall use this procedure for the performance test and for monitoring after the performance test. You shall:


(i) Install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit or catalytic reforming unit regenerator. Or, you may determine and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit or catalytic reforming unit regenerator using the appropriate control room instrumentation.


(ii) Install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the temperature of the gases entering the control device (or exiting the catalyst regenerator if you do not use an add-on control device).


(iii) Calculate and record the hourly average actual exhaust gas flow rate using Equation 1 of this section as follows:


(2) You may use this alternative to calculating Q _r_, the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas for the catalytic cracking regenerator as required in Equation 1 of ยง 63.1564, if you have a gas analyzer installed in the catalytic cracking regenerator exhaust vent prior to the addition of air or other gas streams. You may measure upstream or downstream of an electrostatic precipitator, but you shall measure upstream of a carbon monoxide boiler. You shall:


(i) Install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit regenerator. Or, you can determine and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit regenerator using the catalytic cracking unit control room instrumentation.


(ii) Install and operate a continuous gas analyzer to measure and record the concentration of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and oxygen of the catalytic cracking regenerator exhaust.


(iii) Calculate and record the hourly average flow rate using Equation 2 of this section as follows:


(b) *What is the approved alternative for monitoring pressure drop?* You may use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for pressure drop if you operate a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles. You shall:


(1) Conduct a daily check of the air or water pressure to the spray nozzles;


(2) Maintain records of the results of each daily check; and


(3) Repair or replace faulty (*e.g.,* leaking or plugged) air or water lines within 12 hours of identification of an abnormal pressure reading.


(c) *What is the approved alternative for monitoring pH or alkalinity levels?* You may use the alternative in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section for a catalytic reforming unit.


(1) You shall measure and record the pH of the water (or scrubbing liquid) exiting the wet scrubber or internal scrubbing system at least once an hour during coke burn-off and catalyst rejuvenation using pH strips as an alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system. The pH strips must meet the requirements in Table 41 of this subpart.


(2) You shall measure and record the alkalinity of the water (or scrubbing liquid) exiting the wet scrubber or internal scrubbing system at least once an hour during coke burn-off and catalyst rejuvenation using titration as an alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system.


(d) *Can I use another type of monitoring system?* You may use an automated data compression system. An automated data compression system does not record monitored operating parameter values at a set frequency (*e.g.,* once every hour) but records all values that meet set criteria for variation from previously recorded values. You must maintain a record of the description of the monitoring system and data recording system, including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained, the method for calculating daily averages, and a demonstration that the system meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section:


(1) The system measures the operating parameter value at least once every hour; 


(2) The system records at least 24 values each day during periods of operation; 


(3) The system records the date and time when monitors are turned off or on; 


(4) The system recognizes unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alerts the operator, and records the incident; and 


(5) The system computes daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on recorded data. 


(e) *Can I monitor other process or control device operating parameters?* You may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required in this subpart. You must request approval if: 


(1) You use a control device other than a thermal incinerator, boiler, process heater, flare, electrostatic precipitator, or wet scrubber; 


(2) You use a combustion control device (e.g., incinerator, flare, boiler or process heater with a design heat capacity of at least 44 MW, boiler or process heater where the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone), electrostatic precipitator, or scrubber but want to monitor a parameter other than those specified; or 


(3) You wish to use another type of continuous emission monitoring system that provides direct measurement of a pollutant (i.e., a PM or multi-metals HAP continuous emission monitoring system, a carbonyl sulfide/carbon disulfide continuous emission monitoring system, a TOC continuous emission monitoring system, or HCl continuous emission monitoring system). 


(f) *How do I request to monitor alternative parameters?* You must submit a request for review and approval or disapproval to the Administrator. The request must include the information in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) A description of each affected source and the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether the affected source will continuously comply with the emission limitations and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s). 


(2) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter can be used to determine whether the affected source will continuously comply with the emission limitations and the schedule for this demonstration. You must certify that you will establish an operating limit for the monitored parameter(s) that represents the conditions in existence when the control device is being properly operated and maintained to meet the emission limitation. 


(3) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting, if monitoring and recording are not continuous. You also must include the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting requirements. 


(4) Supporting calculations. 


(5) Averaging time for the alternative operating parameter. 


(g) *How do I apply for alternative monitoring requirements if my catalytic cracking unit is equipped with a wet scrubber and I have approved alternative monitoring requirements under the new source performance standards for petroleum refineries?* (1) You may request alternative monitoring requirements according to the procedures in this paragraph if you meet each of the conditions in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:


(i) Your fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator vent is subject to the PM limit in 40 CFR 60.102(a)(1) and uses a wet scrubber for PM emissions control;


(ii) You have alternative monitoring requirements for the continuous opacity monitoring system requirement in 40 CFR 60.105(a)(1) approved by the Administrator; and


(iii) You are required by this subpart to install, operate, and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system for the same catalytic cracking unit regenerator vent for which you have approved alternative monitoring requirements.


(2) You can request approval to use an alternative monitoring method prior to submitting your notification of compliance status, in your notification of compliance status, or at any time.


(3) You must submit a copy of the approved alternative monitoring requirements along with a monitoring plan that includes a description of the continuous monitoring system or method, including appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored, test results demonstrating compliance with the opacity limit used to establish an enforceable operating limit(s), and the frequency of measuring and recording to establish continuous compliance. If applicable, you must also include operation and maintenance requirements for the continuous monitoring system.


(4) We will contact you within 30 days of receipt of your application to inform you of approval or of our intent to disapprove your request.



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 6940, Feb. 9, 2005; 80 FR 75277, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60723, Nov. 26, 2018]




