# § 270.7   What definitions apply to this program?

In addition to the definitions in 34 CFR 77.1, the following definitions apply to the regulations in this part:


*Desegregation assistance* means the provision of technical assistance (including training) in the areas of race, sex, national origin, and religion desegregation of public elementary and secondary schools.


*Desegregation assistance areas* means the areas of race, sex, national origin, and religion desegregation.


*English learner* has the same meaning under this part as the same term defined in section 8101(20) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended.


*Equity Assistance Center* means a regional desegregation technical assistance and training center funded under this part.


*National origin desegregation* means the assignment of students to public schools and within those schools without regard to their national origin, including providing students such as those who are English learners with a full opportunity for participation in all educational programs regardless of their national origin.


*Public school* means any elementary or secondary educational institution operated by a State, subdivision of a State, or governmental agency within a State, or operated wholly or predominantly from or through the use of governmental funds or property, or funds or property derived from governmental sources.


*Public school personnel* means school board members and persons who are employed by or who work in the schools of a responsible governmental agency, as that term is defined in this section.


*Race desegregation* means the assignment of students to public schools and within those schools without regard to their race, including providing students with a full opportunity for participation in all educational programs regardless of their race. “Race desegregation” does not mean the assignment of students to public schools to correct conditions of racial separation that are not the result of State or local law or official action.


*Religion desegregation* means the assignment of students to public schools and within those schools without regard to their religion, including providing students with a full opportunity for participation in all educational programs regardless of their religion.


*Responsible governmental agency* means any school board, State, municipality, LEA, or other governmental unit legally responsible for operating a public school or schools.


*School board* means any agency or agencies that administer a system of one or more public schools and any other agency that is responsible for the assignment of students to or within that system.


*Sex desegregation* means the assignment of students to public schools and within those schools without regard to their sex (including transgender status; gender identity; sex stereotypes, such as treating a person differently because he or she does not conform to sex-role expectations because he or she is attracted to or is in a relationship with a person of the same sex; and pregnancy and related conditions), including providing students with a full opportunity for participation in all educational programs regardless of their sex.


*Special educational problems occasioned by desegregation* means those issues that arise in classrooms, schools, and communities in the course of desegregation efforts based on race, national origin, sex, or religion. The phrase does not refer to the provision of special education and related services for students with disabilities as defined under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 *et seq.*)




