# § 489.52   Termination by the provider.

(a) *Notice to CMS.* (1) A provider that wishes to terminate its agreement, except for a SNF as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, must send CMS written notice of its intention in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(2) A SNF that wishes to terminate its agreement due to closure of the facility must send CMS written notice of its intention at least 60 days prior to the date of closure, as required at § 483.70(l) of this chapter.


(3) The notice may state the intended date of termination which must be the first day of the month.


(b) *Termination date.* (1) If the notice does not specify a date, or the date is not acceptable to CMS, CMS may set a date that will not be more than 6 months from the date on the provider's notice of intent.


(2) CMS may accept a termination date that is less than 6 months after the date on the provider's notice if it determines that to do so would not unduly disrupt services to the community or otherwise interfere with the effective and efficient administration of the Medicare program.


(3) A cessation of business is deemed to be a termination by the provider, effective with the date on which it stopped providing services to the community.


(4) A provider may request a retroactive termination date if no Medicare beneficiary received services from the facility on or after the requested termination date.


(c) *Public notice.* (1) The provider must give notice to the public at least 15 days before the effective date of termination.


(2) The notice must— 


(i) Specify the termination date; and


(ii) Explain to what extent services may continue after that date, in accordance with the exceptions set forth in § 489.55.



---

[N] [45 FR 22937, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 76 FR 9512, Feb. 18, 2011; 81 FR 68872, Oct. 4, 2016; 82 FR 38516, Aug. 14, 2017; 88 FR 77880, Nov. 13, 2023]




