# § 1.872-1   Gross income of nonresident alien individuals.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Inclusions.* The gross income of a nonresident alien individual for any taxable year includes only (i) the gross income which is derived from sources within the United States and which is not effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual and (ii) the gross income, irrespective of whether such income is derived from sources within or without the United States, which is effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual. For the determination of the sources of income, see sections 861 through 863 and the regulations thereunder. For the determination of whether income from sources within or without the United States is effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, see sections 864(c) and 871 (c) and (d), §§ 1.864-3 through 1.864-7, and §§ 1.871-9 and 1.871-10. For special rules for determining the income of an alien individual who changes his residence during the taxable year, see § 1.871-13.


(2) *Exchange transactions.* Even though a nonresident alien individual who effects certain transactions in the United States in stocks, securities, or commodities during the taxable year may not, by reason of section 864(b)(2) and paragraph (c) or (d) of § 1.864-2, be engaged in trade or business in the United States during the taxable year through the effecting of such transactions, nevertheless he shall be required to include in gross income for the taxable year the gains and profits from those transactions to the extent required by § 1.871-7 or § 1.871-8.


(3) *Exclusions.* For exclusions from gross income, see § 1.872-2.


(b) *Individuals not engaged in U.S. business.* In the case of a nonresident alien individual who at no time during the taxable year is engaged in trade or business in the United States, the gross income shall include only (1) the gross income from sources within the United States which is described in section 871(a) and paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of § 1.871-7, and (2) the gross income from sources within the United States which, by reason of section 871 (c) or (d) and § 1.871-9 or § 1.871-10, is treated as effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual.


(c) *Individuals engaged in U.S. business.* In the case of a nonresident alien individual who is engaged in trade or business in the United States at any time during the taxable year, the gross income shall include (1) the gross income from sources within and without the United States which is effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual, (2) the gross income from sources within the United States which, by reason of the election provided in section 871(d) and § 1.871-10, is treated as effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual, and (3) the gross income from sources within the United States which is described in section 871(a) and paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of § 1.871-7 and is not effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual.


(d) *Special rules applicable to certain expatriates.* For special rules for determining the gross income of a nonresident alien individual who has lost U.S. citizenship with a principal purpose of avoiding certain taxes, see section 877(b)(1).


(e) *Alien resident of Puerto Rico.* This section shall not apply in the case of a nonresident alien individual who is a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico during the entire taxable year. See section 876 and § 1.876-1.


(f) *Effective date.* This section shall apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966. For corresponding rules applicable to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, see 26 CFR 1.872-1 (Revised as of January 1, 1971).



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7332, 39 FR 44228, Dec. 23, 1974]




