# § 98.416   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information:


(a) Each fluorinated GHG, fluorinated HTF, or nitrous oxide production facility shall report the following information:


(1) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF produced at that facility by process, except for amounts that are captured solely to be shipped off site for destruction.


(2) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF transformed at that facility, by process.


(3) Mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is destroyed at that facility and that was previously produced as defined at § 98.410(b). Quantities to be reported under paragraph (a)(3) of this section include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed.


(4) [Reserved]


(5) Total mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF sent to another facility for transformation.


(6) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF sent to another facility for destruction, except fluorinated GHGs and fluorinated HTFs that are not included in the mass produced in § 98.413(a) because they are removed from the production process as byproducts or other wastes. Quantities to be reported under paragraph (a)(6) of this section could include, for example, fluorinated GHGs that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore sent to another facility for destruction.


(7) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is sent to another facility for destruction and that is not included in the mass produced in § 98.413(a) because it is removed from the production process as a byproduct or other waste.


(8)-(9) [Reserved]


(10) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF fed into the transformation process, by process.


(11) Mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is fed into the destruction device and that was previously produced as defined at § 98.410(b). Quantities to be reported under paragraph (a)(11) of this section include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed.


(12) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is measured coming out of the production process, by process.


(13) Mass in metric tons of used nitrous oxide and of each used fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF added back into the production process (*e.g.,* for reclamation), including returned heels in containers that are weighed to measure the mass in § 98.414(a), by process.


(14) Names and addresses of facilities to which any nitrous oxide, fluorinated GHGs, or fluorinated HTFs were sent for transformation, and the quantities (metric tons) of nitrous oxide and of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that were sent to each for transformation.


(15) Names and addresses of facilities to which any fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs were sent for destruction, and the quantities (metric tons) of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that were sent to each for destruction.


(16) Where missing data have been estimated pursuant to § 98.415, the reason the data were missing, the length of time the data were missing, the method used to estimate the missing data, and the estimates of those data.


(b) Any facility or importer that destroys fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs shall submit a one-time report containing the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section for each destruction process by the applicable date set forth in paragraph (b)(7) of this section. Facilities and importers that previously submitted one-time reports under this paragraph for all destruction devices used to destroy fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs are exempt from this requirement unless they meet the conditions in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(1) Destruction efficiency (DE).


(2) Methods used to determine the destruction efficiency.


(3) Methods used to record the mass of fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF destroyed.


(4) Chemical identity of the fluorinated GHG(s) used in the performance test conducted to determine DE.


(5) Name of all applicable federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process.


(6) If any process changes (including the acquisition of a new destruction device) affect unit destruction efficiency or the methods used to record the mass of fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF destroyed, then a revised report must be submitted to reflect the changes. The revised report must be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change.


(7)(i) Any fluorinated GHG production facility or importer that destroys fluorinated GHGs must submit the one-time destruction report by March 31, 2011 or within 60 days of commencing fluorinated GHG destruction, whichever is later.


(ii) Any fluorinated GHG production facility or importer that destroys fluorinated HTFs that are not also fluorinated GHGs must submit the one-time destruction report by March 31, 2019 or within 60 days of commencing fluorinated HTF destruction, whichever is later.


(iii) Any facility that destroys fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs but does not produce or import fluorinated GHGs must submit the one-time destruction report by March 31, 2019 or within 60 days of commencing fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF destruction, whichever is later.


(c) Each bulk importer of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated heat transfer fluids (HTFs), or nitrous oxide shall submit an annual report that summarizes its imports at the corporate level, except importers may exclude shipments including less than twenty-five kilograms of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide; transshipments if the importer also excludes transshipments from reporting of exports under paragraph (d) of this section; and heels that meet the conditions set forth at § 98.417(e) if the importer also excludes heels from any reporting of exports under paragraph (d) of this section. The report shall contain the following information for each import:






(1) Total mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF imported in bulk, including each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF constituent of the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF product that makes up between 0.5 percent and 100 percent of the product by mass.


(2) Total mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF imported in bulk and sold or transferred to persons other than the importer for use in processes resulting in the transformation or destruction of the chemical.


(3) Date on which the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide were imported.


(4) Port of entry through which the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide passed.


(5) Country from which the imported fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide were imported.




(6) Harmonized tariff system (HTS) code of the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide shipped.


(7) Customs entry number and importer number for each shipment.








(8) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF destroyed by the importer.


(9) If applicable, the names and addresses of the persons and facilities to which the nitrous oxide, fluorinated GHGs, or fluorinated HTFs were sold or transferred for transformation, and the quantities (metric tons) of nitrous oxide and of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that were sold or transferred to each facility for transformation.


(10) If applicable, the names and addresses of the persons and facilities to which the fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs were sold or transferred for destruction, and the quantities (metric tons) of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that were sold or transferred to each facility for destruction.




(d) Each bulk exporter of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide shall submit an annual report that summarizes its exports at the corporate level, except reporters may exclude shipments including less than twenty-five kilograms of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide; transshipments if the exporter also excludes transshipments from reporting of imports under paragraph (c) of this section; and heels if the exporter also excludes heels from any reporting of imports under paragraph (c) of this section. The report shall contain the following information for each export:










(1) Total mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF exported in bulk.


(2) Names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports.


(3) Exporter's Employee Identification Number.


(4) Harmonized tariff system (HTS) code of the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide shipped.


(5) Date on which, and the port from which, the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide were exported from the United States or its territories.


(6) Country to which the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide were exported.


(e) By March 31, 2011, or within 60 days of commencing fluorinated GHG production, whichever is later, a fluorinated GHG production facility shall submit a one-time report describing the following information:


(1) The method(s) by which the producer in practice measures the mass of fluorinated GHGs produced, including the instrumentation used (Coriolis flowmeter, other flowmeter, weigh scale, etc.) and its accuracy and precision.


(2) The method(s) by which the producer in practice estimates the mass of fluorinated GHGs fed into the transformation process, including the instrumentation used (Coriolis flowmeter, other flowmeter, weigh scale, etc.) and its accuracy and precision.


(3) The method(s) by which the producer in practice estimates the fraction of fluorinated GHGs fed into the transformation process that is actually transformed, and the estimated precision and accuracy of this estimate.


(4) The method(s) by which the producer in practice estimates the masses of fluorinated GHGs fed into the destruction device, including the method(s) used to estimate the concentration of the fluorinated GHGs in the destroyed material, and the estimated precision and accuracy of this estimate.


(5) The estimated percent efficiency of each production process for the fluorinated GHG produced.


(f) By March 31, 2011, all fluorinated GHG production facilities shall submit a one-time report that includes the concentration of each fluorinated GHG constituent in each fluorinated GHG product as measured under § 98.414(n). If the facility commences production of a fluorinated GHG product that was not included in the initial report or performs a repeat measurement under § 98.414(n) that shows that the identities or concentrations of the fluorinated GHG constituents of a fluorinated GHG product have changed, then the new or changed concentrations, as well as the date of the change, must be reflected in a revision to the report. The revised report must be submitted to EPA by the March 31st that immediately follows the measurement under § 98.414(n).


(g) Isolated intermediates that are produced and transformed at the same facility are exempt from the reporting requirements of this section.


(h) Low-concentration constituents are exempt from the reporting requirements of this section.


(i) Each facility that destroys fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs but does not otherwise report under this section shall report the mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is destroyed at that facility and that was previously produced as defined at § 98.410(b) or (d), as applicable. Quantities to be reported under this paragraph (i) include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed.


(j) By March 31, 2019, all facilities that produce fluorinated HTFs that are not also fluorinated GHGs shall submit a one-time report that includes the concentration of each fluorinated HTF or fluorinated GHG constituent in each fluorinated HTF product as measured under § 98.414(n). If the facility commences production of a fluorinated HTF product that was not included in the initial report or performs a repeat measurement under § 98.414(n) that shows that the identities or concentrations of the fluorinated HTF or fluorinated GHG constituents of a fluorinated HTF product have changed, then the new or changed concentrations, as well as the date of the change, must be provided in a revised report. The revised report must be submitted to EPA by the March 31st that immediately follows the new or repeat measurement under § 98.414(n).


(k) For nitrous oxide, saturated perfluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride, and fluorinated heat transfer fluids as defined at § 98.6, report the end use(s) for which each GHG or fluorinated HTF is transferred and the aggregated annual quantity of that GHG or fluorinated HTF in metric tons that is transferred to that end use application, if known.











---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79168, Dec. 17, 2010; 76 FR 73905, Nov. 29, 2011; 81 FR 89272, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31942, Apr. 25, 2024]




