# § 140.2   Regional office—Regional Administrator.

Each of the Regional offices described herein functions as set forth in this section under the direction of a Regional Administrator who, as a collateral duty, oversees the administration of the office and represents the Commission in negotiations with employee union officials and in interactions with external parties. Each regional office has delegated authority for the enforcement of the Act and administration of the programs of the Commission in the particular regions.


(a) The Eastern Regional Office is located at 290 Broadway, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10007 and is responsible for enforcement of the Act and administration of programs of the Commission in the States of Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia.


(b) The Central Regional Office is located at 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 800, Chicago, IL 60604 and is responsible for enforcement of the Act and administration of programs of the Commission in the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.


(c) The Southwestern Regional Office is located at 2600 Grand Blvd, Suite 210, Kansas City, MO 64108, and is responsible for enforcement of the Act and administration of the programs of the Commission in the States of Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.



---

[N] [69 FR 41426, July 9, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 16269, Apr. 4, 2007; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]




