# § 2.235   Request for notification of existence of records: Submission.

(a) *Submission of requests.* (1)(i) Individuals desiring to determine under the Privacy Act whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them shall address inquiries to the system manager having responsibility for the system unless the system notice describing the system prescribes or permits submission to some other official or officials.


(ii) If a system notice describing a system requires individuals to contact more than two officials concerning the existence of records in the system, individuals desiring to determine whether the system contains records pertaining to them may contact the system manager for assistance in determining which official is most likely to be in possession of records pertaining to those individuals.


(2) Individuals desiring to determine whether records pertaining to them are maintained in two or more systems shall make a separate inquiry concerning each system.


(b) *Form of request.* (1) An inquiry to determine whether a system of records contains records pertaining to an individual shall be in writing.


(2) To insure expeditious handling, the request shall be prominently marked, both on the envelope and on the face of the request, with the legend “PRIVACY ACT INQUIRY.”


(3) The request shall state that the individual is seeking information concerning records pertaining to him or herself and shall supply such additional identifying information, if any, as is called for in the system notice describing the system.


(4) Individuals who have reason to believe that information pertaining to them may be filed under a name other than the name they are currently using (e.g., maiden name), shall include such information in the request.



---

[N] [40 FR 44505, Sept. 26, 1975, as amended at 48 FR 56584, Dec. 22, 1983]




