# § 21.79   Determining entitlement usage under Chapter 31.

(a) *General.* The determination of entitlement usage for chapter 31 participants is made under the provisions of this section except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. Charges for entitlement usage shall be based upon the principle that a veteran who pursues a rehabilitation program for 1 day should be charged 1 day of entitlement. The determination of entitlement is based upon the rate at which the veteran pursues his or her rehabilitation program. The rate of pursuit is determined under the provisions of § 21.310 of this part.


(b) *No charge against chapter 31 entitlement.* No charge will be made against chapter 31 entitlement under any of the following circumstances:


(1) The veteran is receiving employment services under an Individualized Employment Assistance Plan (IEAP);


(2) The veteran is receiving an employment adjustment allowance; or


(3) The veteran is on leave from his or her program, but leave is not authorized by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


(c) *Periods during which entitlement may be charged.* Charges for usage of chapter 31 entitlement may only be made for program participants in one of the following case statuses:


(1) Rehabilitation to the point of employability;


(2) Extended evaluation; or


(3) Independent living.


(d) *Method of charging entitlement under chapter 31.* The Department of Veterans Affairs will make a charge against entitlement:


(1) On the basis of total elapsed time (1 day of entitlement for each day of pursuit) if the veteran is being provided a rehabilitation program on a full-time basis;


(2) On the basis of a proportionate rate of elapsed time if the veteran is being provided a rehabilitation program on a three-quarter, one-half or less than one-half time basis. Entitlement is charged at a:


(i) Three-quarter time rate if pursuit is three-quarters or more, but less than full-time;


(ii) One-half time rate if pursuit is half-time or more, but less than three-quarter time;


(iii) One-quarter time rate if pursuit is less than half-time. Measurement of pursuit on a one-quarter time basis is limited to veterans in independent living or extended evaluation programs.


(e) *Computing entitlement.* (1) The computation of entitlement is based upon the rate of program pursuit, as determined under § 21.310 of this part, over the elapsed time during which training and rehabilitation services were furnished;


(2) The Department of Veterans Affairs will compute elapsed time from the commencing date of the rehabilitation program as determined under § 21.322 of this part to the date of termination as determined under § 21.324 of this part. This includes the period during which veterans not receiving subsistence allowance because of a statutory bar; e.g., certain incarcerated veterans or servicepersons in a military hospital, nevertheless, received other chapter 31 services and assistance. Elapsed time includes the total period from the commencing date until the termination date, except for any period of unauthorized leave;


(3) If the veteran's rate of pursuit changes after the commencing date of the rehabilitation program, the Department of Veterans Affairs will:


(i) Separate the period of rehabilitation program services into the actual periods of time during which the veteran's rate of pursuit was different; and


(ii) Compute entitlement based on the rate of pursuit for each separate elapsed time period.


(f) *Special situations.* (1) When a chapter 31 participant elects benefits of the kind provided under chapter 30 or chapter 34 as a part of his or her rehabilitation program under chapter 31, the veteran's entitlement usage will be determined by using the entitlement provisions of those programs. Entitlement charges shall be in accordance with § 21.7076 for chapter 30 and § 21.1045 under chapter 34. The entitlement usage computed under these provisions is deducted from the veteran's chapter 31 entitlement. No entitlement charges are made against either chapter 30 or chapter 34.


(2) When a chapter 31 participant elects to receive payment of the *Post-9/11 subsistence allowance* under § 21.260(c) in lieu of a subsistence allowance under § 21.260(b), the entitlement usage is deducted from the veteran's chapter 31 entitlement. No entitlement charges are made against chapter 33. 


(3) When a veteran is pursuing on-job training or work experience in a Federal agency on a nonpay or nominal pay basis, the amount of entitlement used is determined in the following manner:


(i) Entitlement used in on-job training in a Federal agency on a nonpay or nominal pay basis is determined in the same manner as other training.


(ii) Entitlement used in pursuing work experience will be computed in the same manner as for veterans in on-job training except that work experience may be pursued on a less than full-time basis. If the veteran is receiving work experience on a less than full-time basis, entitlement charges are based upon a proportionate amount of the workweek. For example, if the workweek is 40 hours, three-quarter time is at least 30 hours, but less than 40 hours, and half-time is at least 20 hours but less than 30 hours.


(4) Entitlement is charged on a full-time basis for a veteran found to have a reduced work tolerance.


(g) *Overpayment.* The Department of Veterans Affairs will make a charge against entitlement for an overpayment of subsistence allowance under the conditions described in § 21.1045(h) of this part.



---

[N] [54 FR 47770, Nov. 17, 1989, as amended at 76 FR 45703, Aug. 1, 2011]




