# § 740.2   Definitions.

*Act* means the Water Resources Planning Act (as amended), Pub. L. 89-80, 42 U.S.C. 1962 *et seq.*

*Activities* means a series of actions and operations which address the water management problems of the State and have a specific purpose or objective. Activities are further characterized by one or more major tasks and milestones.


*Affected interests* means public and private organizations, local, tribal, State and Federal governments that may be potentially affected by the State water management planning program.


*Application* means a document submitted by a Governor or designee for consideration by the Council for a grant.


*Council* means the Water Resources Council established by section 101 of the Act.


*Designated agency* means an entity of a State designated by the Governor to act as the grant recipient and to act as liaison with the Council for this Program.


*Fiscal year* means a 12-month period ending on September 30, unless otherwise specified.


*Governor* means the chief executive officer of a State, including the Mayor of the District of Columbia.


*Grant agreement* means a document executed by the authorized official of the Water Resources Council and by the authorized representative of the State agency designated as the grant recipient containing the agreed terms and conditions of the approved grant offer and award.


*Grant period* means a 12-month period specified in the grant agreement, which shall begin during the fiscal year as defined above, during which program funds are authorized to be expended, obligated, or firmly committed by the grantee for the purposes specified in the Act, in the grant agreement and in these guidelines. 


*Land area of a State* means the land and inland water area of a State as defined and set forth in the publication “Boundaries of the United States and the Several States” Geological Survey Professional Paper 909, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC issued in 1976, or revisions thereof.


*Local government* means a local unit of government including a county municipality, city, town, township, local public authority, school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments, sponsor group representative organization (as defined in 7 CFR 620.2, 40 FR 12472, March 19, 1975) and other regional or interstate government entity; or any agency or instrumentality of a local government exclusive of institutions of higher education and hospitals.


*Milestones* mean key events in the activity implementation schedule. Milestones indicate important dates for design implementation and monitoring tasks. Examples of milestones include but are not limited to hiring of key staff, publication dates, workshop dates, or the completion of specific phases of the implementation schedule.


*Obligation* means orders placed, contracts awarded, grants issued, services received and similar transactions during a given period that require the disbursement of money.


*Per capita income of a State* means the most recent year of official U.S. Department of Commerce per capita income figures for the State.


*Program period* means the period beginning on October 1, 1980, and extending through the authorized life of the Program.


*Program funds* means grant funds provided under the Act, non-Federal funds and the value of in-kind contributions used for matching purposes. 


*Population of a State* means the latest official resident population estimate by the U.S. Department of Commerce available on or before January 1, of the year preceding the fiscal year for which funds under this part are appropriated.


*Related land resources* means any land affected by present or projected management practices causing significant effects on the quantity or quality of the water resource.


*State* means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State water management planning* means those activities necessary to effect coordinated decisions for the use of water and related resources within a State or interstate region; which provide for the correction or prevention, respectively, of present and future water and related land resources problems; which consider the potential for water and related land resources use from the standpoint of present and future needs; and which provide for involvement of affected interests. Water management planning activities may include, but are not limited to, planning, data collection and analysis, studies and investigations, program design and coordination, development of regulation and enforcement programs, information dissemination, public meetings, and the coordination of the program with other related programs.


*Task* means a specific action or operation which comprises a part of the implementation effort for an activity.


*Water conservation* means activities designed to (1) reduce the demand for water, (2) improve efficiency in use and reduce losses and waste of water, or (3) improve land management practices to conserve water.


*Water management planning need* is defined as the basis for establishing criteria for assessing each State's need for assistance under the Program.


*Work Plan* means a document listing the major program elements to be performed under the program during each grant period which presents, in chronological order, the major activities and tasks in the program element; which targets major milestones or proposed accomplishments by activity, cost and date; and which will be used in preparing reports to reflect accomplishment of goals and objectives under the participating State's comprehensive program.




