# ยง 102-42.20   What is the typical disposition process for gifts and decorations that employees are not authorized to retain?

(a) *Non-monetary gifts or decorations.* When an employee receives a non-monetary gift above the minimal value or a decoration that the employee is not authorized to retain: 


(1) The employee must report the gift or decoration to their employing agency within 60 days after accepting it. 


(2) The employing agency determines if it will keep the gift or decoration for official use. 


(3) If it does not return the gift or decoration to the donor or keep it for official use, the employing agency reports it as excess personal property to GSA for Federal utilization screening under ยง 102-42.95. 


(4) If GSA does not transfer the gift or decoration during Federal utilization screening, the employee may purchase the gift or decoration (see ยง 102-42.140). 


(5) If the employee declines to purchase the gift or decoration, and there is no Federal requirement for either, GSA may offer it for donation through State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP) under part 102-37 of this subchapter B. 


(6) If no SASP requests the gift or decoration for donation, GSA may offer it for public sale, with the approval of the Secretary of State, or will authorize the destruction of the gift or decoration under part 102-38 of this subchapter B. 


(b) *Monetary gifts.* When an employee receives a monetary gift above the minimal value: 


(1) The employee must report the gift to their employing agency within 60 days after accepting it. 


(2) The employing agency must: 


(i) Report a monetary gift with possible historic or numismatic (i.e., collectible) value to GSA; or 


(ii) Deposit a monetary gift that has no historic or numismatic value with the Department of the Treasury. 



---

[N] [65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006; 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]




