# § 1005.415   Sale of property.

(a) *Owner of Record requirement.* The property must be or have been purchased from the Owner of Record and the transaction may not involve or had not involved any sale or assignment of the sales contract.


(b) *Supporting documentation.* The Direct Guarantee Lender shall obtain and submit to HUD documentation verifying that the seller is the Owner of Record as part of the application for a loan guarantee under the Section 184 Program. Documentation must conform with the requirements set out in Section 184 Program Guidance. This documentation may include, but is not limited to, a property ownership history report from the State or local government, a copy of the recorded deed or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as provided by Section 184 Program Guidance and the document evidences the property interest rights, as permitted by this subpart from the seller, or other documentation (such as a copy of a property tax bill, title commitment, or binder) demonstrating the seller's ownership.


(c) *Time restrictions on re-sales*—(1) *General.* The eligibility of a property for a Loan guaranteed by HUD is dependent on the time that has elapsed between the date the seller acquired the property (based upon the date of settlement) and the date of execution of the sales contract that will result in the HUD guarantee (the re-sale date). The Direct Guarantee Lender shall obtain documentation verifying compliance with the time restrictions described in this paragraph and must submit this documentation to HUD as part of the application for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, in accordance with § 1005.501.


(2) *Re-sales occurring 90 days or less following acquisition.* If the re-sale date is 90 days or less following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is not eligible under the Section 184 Program.


(3) *Re-sales occurring between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition.* (i) If the re-sale date is between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition by the seller, the property is generally eligible under the Section 184 Program.


(ii) However, HUD will require that the Direct Guarantee Lender obtain additional documentation if the re-sale price is 100 percent over the purchase price. Such documentation must include a second appraisal from a different appraiser. The Direct Guarantee Lender may also document its Loan file to support the increased value by establishing that the increased value results from the rehabilitation of the property.


(iii) Additional documentation may be required, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(4) *Authority to address property re-sales occurring between 181 days and 12 months following acquisition.* (i) If the re-sale date is more than 181 days after the date of acquisition by the seller, but before the end of the twelfth month after the date of acquisition, the property is eligible under the Section 184 Program.


(ii) However, HUD may require that the Direct Guarantee Lender provide additional documentation to support the re-sale value of the property if the re-sale price is 5 percent or greater than the lowest sales price of the property during the preceding 12 months (as evidenced by the contract of sale). At HUD's discretion, such documentation must include, but is not limited to, a second appraisal from a different appraiser. HUD may exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements.


(iii) If the additional value documentation supports a value of the property that is more than 5 percent lower than the value supported by the first appraisal, the lower value will be used to calculate the maximum principal loan amount under § 1005.443. Otherwise, the value supported by the first appraisal will be used to calculate the maximum principal loan amount.


(iv) Additional value documentation may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(5) *Re-sales occurring more than 12 months following acquisition.* If the re-sale date is more than 12 months following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is eligible under the Section 184 Program.


(d) *Exceptions to the time restrictions on sales.* The time restrictions on sales described in paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to:


(1) Sales by HUD of real estate owned (REO) properties under 24 CFR part 291 and of single-family assets in revitalization areas pursuant to section 204 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710);


(2) Sales by an agency of the United States Government of REO single family properties pursuant to programs operated by such agencies;


(3) Sales of properties by Tribes, TDHEs, State, or local governments, or Eligible Nonprofit Organizations approved to purchase HUD REO single family properties at a discount with resale restrictions;


(4) Sales of properties that were acquired by the sellers by death, devise, or intestacy;


(5) Sales of properties purchased by an employer or relocation agency in connection with the relocation of an employee;


(6) Sales of properties by Tribes, TDHEs, State and local government agencies; and


(7) Only upon announcement by HUD through issuance of a notice, sales of properties located in areas designated by the President as federally declared disaster areas. The notice will specify how long the exception will be in effect.


(8) HUD may approve other exceptions on a case-by-case basis.






