# § 263.53   Discovery depositions.

(a) *In general.* In addition to the discovery permitted in subpart A of this part, limited discovery by means of depositions will be allowed for individuals with knowledge of facts material to the proceeding that are not protected from discovery by any applicable privilege, and of identified expert witnesses. Except in unusual cases, accordingly, depositions will be permitted only of individuals identified as hearing witnesses, including experts. All discovery depositions must be completed within the time set forth in § 263.24(d).


(b) *Application.* A party who desires to take a deposition of any other party's proposed witnesses, must apply to the ALJ for the issuance of a deposition subpoena or subpoena duces tecum. The application must state the name and address of the proposed deponent, the subject matter of the testimony expected from the deponent and its relevancy to the proceeding, and the address of the place, the manner (*e.g.,* remote means, in person), and the time, no sooner than ten days after the service of the subpoena, for the taking of the deposition. Any such application must be treated as a motion subject to the rules governing motions practice set forth in § 263.23.


(c) *Issuance of subpoena.* The ALJ must issue the requested deposition subpoena or subpoena *duces tecum* upon a finding that the application satisfies the requirements of this section and of § 263.24. If the ALJ determines that the taking of the deposition or its proposed location or manner is, in whole or in part, unnecessary, unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope or unduly burdensome, the ALJ may deny the application or may grant it upon such conditions as justice may require. The party obtaining the deposition subpoena or subpoena *duces tecum* will be responsible for serving it on the deponent and all parties to the proceeding in accordance with § 263.11. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment, by remote means, or such other convenient place or manner, as the ALJ fixes.


(d) *Motion to quash or modify.* A person named in a deposition subpoena or subpoena *duces tecum* may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena or for the issuance of a protective order. Such motions must be filed within ten days following service of the subpoena, but in all cases at least five days prior to the commencement of the scheduled deposition. The motion must be accompanied by a statement of the reasons for granting the motion and a copy of the motion and the statement must be served on the party which requested the subpoena. Only the party requesting the subpoena may file a response to a motion to quash or modify, and any such response must be filed within five days following service of the motion.


(e) *Enforcement of a deposition subpoena.* Enforcement of a deposition subpoena must be in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 263.27(d).


(f) *Conduct of the deposition.* The deponent must be duly sworn. By stipulation of the parties or order by the ALJ, a court reporter or other person authorized to administer an oath may administer the oath remotely, without being in the physical presence of the deponent. Each party may examine the deponent with respect to all non-privileged, relevant, and material matters. Objections to questions or evidence must be in the short form, stating the ground for the objection. Failure to object to questions or evidence will not be deemed a waiver except where the grounds for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. The discovery deposition must be transcribed or otherwise recorded as agreed among the parties.


(g) *Protective orders.* At any time during the taking of a discovery deposition, on the motion of any party or of the deponent, the ALJ may terminate or limit the scope and manner of the deposition upon a finding that grounds exist for such relief. Grounds for terminating or limiting the taking of a discovery deposition include a finding that the discovery deposition is being conducted in bad faith or in such a manner as to:


(1) Unreasonably annoy, embarrass, or oppress the deponent;


(2) Unreasonably probe into privilege, irrelevant, or immaterial matters; or


(3) Unreasonably attempt to pry into a party's preparation for trial.






