# 215.404-71-2   Performance risk.

(a) *Description.* This profit factor addresses the contractor's degree of risk in fulfilling the contract requirements. The factor consists of two parts: 


(1) Technical—the technical uncertainties of performance. 


(2) Management/cost control—the degree of management effort necessary—


(i) To ensure that contract requirements are met; and 


(ii) To reduce and control costs. 


(b) *Determination.* The following extract from the DD Form 1547 is annotated to describe the process. 


(1) Assign a weight (percentage) to each element according to its input to the total performance risk. The total of the two weights equals 100 percent. 


(2) Select a value for each element from the list in paragraph (c) of this subsection using the evaluation criteria in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this subsection. 


(3) Compute the composite as shown in the following example: 


(4) Insert the amount from Block 20 of the DD Form 1547. Block 20 is total contract costs, excluding facilities capital cost of money. 


(5) Multiply (3) by (4). 


(c) Values: Normal and designated ranges. 


(1) *Standard.* The standard designated range should apply to most contracts. 


(2) *Technology incentive.* For the technical factor only, contracting officers may use the technology incentive range for acquisitions that include development, production, or application of innovative new technologies. The technology incentive range does not apply to efforts restricted to studies, analyses, or demonstrations that have a technical report as their primary deliverable. 


(d) *Evaluation criteria for technical.* (1) Review the contract requirements and focus on the critical performance elements in the statement of work or specifications. Factors to consider include— 


(i) Technology being applied or developed by the contractor; 


(ii) Technical complexity; 


(iii) Program maturity; 


(iv) Performance specifications and tolerances; 


(v) Delivery schedule; and 


(vi) Extent of a warranty or guarantee. 


(2) *Above normal conditions.* (i) The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value in those cases where there is a substantial technical risk. Indicators are—


(A) Items are being manufactured using specifications with stringent tolerance limits; 


(B) The efforts require highly skilled personnel or require the use of state-of-the-art machinery; 


(C) The services and analytical efforts are extremely important to the Government and must be performed to exacting standards; 


(D) The contractor's independent development and investment has reduced the Government's risk or cost; 


(E) The contractor has accepted an accelerated delivery schedule to meet DoD requirements; or 


(F) The contractor has assumed additional risk through warranty provisions. 


(ii) Extremely complex, vital efforts to overcome difficult technical obstacles that require personnel with exceptional abilities, experience, and professional credentials may justify a value significantly above normal. 


(iii) The following may justify a maximum value— 


(A) Development or initial production of a new item, particularly if performance or quality specifications are tight; or 


(B) A high degree of development or production concurrency. 


(3) *Below normal conditions.* (i) The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value in those cases where the technical risk is low. Indicators are—


(A) Requirements are relatively simple; 


(B) Technology is not complex; 


(C) Efforts do not require highly skilled personnel; 


(D) Efforts are routine; 


(E) Programs are mature; or 


(F) Acquisition is a follow-on effort or a repetitive type acquisition. 


(ii) The contracting officer may assign a value significantly below normal for— 


(A) Routine services; 


(B) Production of simple items; 


(C) Rote entry or routine integration of Government-furnished information; or 


(D) Simple operations with Government-furnished property. 


(4) *Technology incentive range.* (i) The contracting officer may assign values within the technology incentive range when contract performance includes the introduction of new, significant technological innovation. Use the technology incentive range only for the most innovative contract efforts. Innovation may be in the form of—


(A) Development or application of new technology that fundamentally changes the characteristics of an existing product or system and that results in increased technical performance, improved reliability, or reduced costs; or 


(B) New products or systems that contain significant technological advances over the products or systems they are replacing. 


(ii) When selecting a value within the technology incentive range, the contracting officer should consider the relative value of the proposed innovation to the acquisition as a whole. When the innovation represents a minor benefit, the contracting officer should consider using values less than the norm. For innovative efforts that will have a major positive impact on the product or program, the contracting officer may use values above the norm. 


(e) *Evaluation criteria for management/cost control.* (1) The contracting officer should evaluate— 


(i) The contractor's management and internal control systems using contracting office data, information and reviews made by field contract administration offices or other DoD field offices; 


(ii) The management involvement expected on the prospective contract action; 


(iii) The degree of cost mix as an indication of the types of resources applied and value added by the contractor; 


(iv) The contractor's support of Federal socioeconomic programs; 


(v) The expected reliability of the contractor's cost estimates (including the contractor's cost estimating system); 


(vi) The adequacy of the contractor's management approach to controlling cost and schedule; and 


(vii) Any other factors that affect the contractor's ability to meet the cost targets (e.g., foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates). 


(2) *Above normal conditions.* (i) The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value when there is a high degree of management effort. Indicators of this are—


(A) The contractor's value added is both considerable and reasonably difficult; 


(B) The effort involves a high degree of integration or coordination; 


(C) The contractor has a good record of past performance; 


(D) The contractor has a substantial record of active participation in Federal socioeconomic programs; 


(E) The contractor provides fully documented and reliable cost estimates; 


(F) The contractor makes appropriate make-or-buy decisions; or 


(G) The contractor has a proven record of cost tracking and control. 


(ii) The contracting officer may justify a maximum value when the effort—


(A) Requires large scale integration of the most complex nature; 


(B) Involves major international activities with significant management coordination (e.g., offsets with foreign vendors); or 


(C) Has critically important milestones. 


(iii) If the contractor demonstrates efficient management and cost control through the submittal of a timely, qualifying proposal (as defined in 217.7401) in furtherance of definitization of an undefinitized contract action, and the proposal demonstrates effective cost control from the time of award to the present, the contracting officer may add 1 percentage point to the value determined for management/cost control up to the maximum of 7 percent.


(3) *Below normal conditions.* (i) The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value when the management effort is minimal. Indicators of this are— 


(A) The program is mature and many end item deliveries have been made; 


(B) The contractor adds minimal value to an item; 


(C) The efforts are routine and require minimal supervision; 


(D) The contractor provides poor quality, untimely proposals; 


(E) The contractor fails to provide an adequate analysis of subcontractor costs; 


(F) The contractor does not cooperate in the evaluation and negotiation of the proposal; 


(G) The contractor's cost estimating system is marginal; 


(H) The contractor has made minimal effort to initiate cost reduction programs; 


(I) The contractor's cost proposal is inadequate; 


(J) The contractor has a record of cost overruns or another indication of unreliable cost estimates and lack of cost control; or 


(K) The contractor has a poor record of past performance. 


(ii) The following may justify a value significantly below normal— 


(A) Reviews performed by the field contract administration offices disclose unsatisfactory management and internal control systems (e.g., quality assurance, property control, safety, security); or 


(B) The effort requires an unusually low degree of management involvement.



---

[N] [67 FR 20689, Apr. 26, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 49254, July 30, 2002; 78 FR 13543, Feb. 28, 2013; 83 FR 30586, June 29, 2018; 84 FR 39205, Aug. 9, 2019]




