# ยง 0.10   Attorney General's Advisory Committee of U.S. Attorneys.

(a) The Attorney General's Advisory Committee of United States Attorneys shall consist of an appropriate number of United States Attorneys, designated by the Attorney General. The membership shall be selected to represent the various geographic areas of the Nation and various sized United States Attorneys' Offices. Members shall serve at the pleasure of the Attorney General, but such service normally shall not exceed three years and shall be subject to adjustment by the Attorney General so as to assure the annual rotation of approximately one-third of the Committee's membership. The United States Attorney for the District of Columbia shall serve as an *ex officio* member of the Committee. The Attorney General may designate additional personnel from United States Attorneys' Offices to serve as members of the Committee.


(b) The Committee shall make recommendations to the Attorney General, to the Deputy Attorney General and to the Associate Attorney General concerning any matters which the Committee believes to be in the best interests of justice, including, but not limited to, the following:


(1) Establishing and modifying policies and procedures of the Department; 


(2) Improving management, particularly with respect to the relationships between the Department and the U.S. Attorneys; 


(3) Cooperating with State Attorneys General and other State and local officials for the purpose of improving the quality of justice in the United States; 


(4) Promoting greater consistency in the application of legal standards throughout the Nation and at the various levels of government; and 


(5) Aiding the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General and the Associate Attorney General in formulating new programs for improvement of the criminal justice system at all levels, including proposals relating to legislation and court rules.


(c) The Attorney General will select from the Committee's membership a chairperson and a vice-chairperson. The Attorney General may establish such subcommittees as deemed necessary to carry out the Committee's objectives. The Committee, in consultation with the Director of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys, will select chairpersons for such subcommittees. United States Attorneys who are not members of the Committee may be included in the membership of subcommittees.


(d) The Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys shall provide the Committee with such staff assistance and funds as are reasonably necessary to carry out the Committee's responsibilities. 



---

[N] [Order No. 640-76, 41 FR 7748, Feb. 20, 1976, as amended by Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52340, Oct. 27, 1981; Order No. 3108-2009, 74 FR 47097, Sept. 15, 2009] 




