# § 412.432   Method of payment under the inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system.

(a) *General rule.* Subject to the exceptions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, an inpatient psychiatric facility receives payment under this subpart for inpatient operating cost and capital-related costs for each inpatient stay following submission of a bill.


(b) *Periodic interim payments (PIP).* (1) Criteria for receiving PIP.


(i) An inpatient psychiatric facility receiving payment under this subpart may receive PIP for Part A services under the PIP method subject to the provisions of § 413.64(h) of this chapter.


(ii) To be approved for PIP, the inpatient psychiatric facility must meet the qualifying requirements in § 413.64(h)(3) of this chapter.


(iii) A hospital that is receiving periodic interim payments also receives payment under this subpart for applicable services furnished by its excluded psychiatric unit.


(iv) As provided in § 413.64(h)(5) of this chapter, intermediary approval is conditioned upon the intermediary's best judgment as to whether payment can be made under the PIP method without undue risk of resulting in an overpayment to the provider.


(2) *Frequency of payment.* For facilities approved for PIP, the intermediary estimates the annual inpatient psychiatric facility's Federal per diem prospective payments, net of estimated beneficiary deductibles and coinsurance, and makes biweekly payments equal to 
1/26 of the total estimated amount of payment for the year. If the inpatient psychiatric facility has payment experience under the prospective payment system, the intermediary estimates PIP based on that payment experience, adjusted for projected changes supported by substantiated information for the current year. Each payment is made 2 weeks after the end of a biweekly period of service as specified in § 413.64(h)(6) of this chapter. The interim payments are reviewed at least twice during the reporting period and adjusted if necessary. Fewer reviews may be necessary if an inpatient psychiatric facility receives interim payments for less than a full reporting period. These payments are subject to final settlement.


(3) *Termination of PIP.* (i) *Request by the inpatient psychiatric facility.* Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, an inpatient psychiatric facility receiving PIP may convert to receiving prospective payments on a non-PIP basis at any time.


(ii) *Removal by the intermediary.* An intermediary terminates PIP if the inpatient psychiatric facility no longer meets the requirements of § 413.64(h) of this chapter.


(c) *Interim payments for Medicare bad debts and for costs of an approved education program and other costs paid outside the prospective payment system.* For Medicare bad debts and for costs of an approved education program and other costs paid outside the prospective payment system, the intermediary determines the interim payments by estimating the reimbursable amount for the year based on the previous year's experience, adjusted for projected changes supported by substantiated information for the current year, and makes biweekly payments equal to 
1/26 of the total estimated amount. Each payment is made 2 weeks after the end of the biweekly period of service as specified in § 413.64(h)(6) of this chapter. The interim payments are reviewed at least twice during the reporting period and adjusted if necessary. Fewer reviews may be necessary if an inpatient psychiatric facility receives interim payments for less than a full reporting period. These payments are subject to final cost settlement.


(d) *Outlier payments.* Additional payments for outliers are not made on an interim basis. Outlier payments are made based on the submission of a discharge bill and represents final payment subject to the cost report settlement specified in § 412.84(i) and § 412.84(m) of this part.


(e) *Accelerated payments*—(1) *General rule.* Upon request, an accelerated payment may be made to an inpatient psychiatric facility that is receiving payment under this subpart and is not receiving PIP under paragraph (b) of this section if the inpatient psychiatric facility is experiencing financial difficulties because of the following:


(i) There is a delay by the intermediary in making payment to the inpatient psychiatric facility.


(ii) Due to an exceptional situation, there is a temporary delay in the inpatient psychiatric facility's preparation and submittal of bills to the intermediary beyond the normal billing cycle.


(2) *Approval of accelerated payment.* An inpatient psychiatric facility's request for an accelerated payment must be approved by the intermediary and CMS.


(3) *Amount of accelerated payment.* The amount of the accelerated payment is computed as a percent of the net payment for unbilled or unpaid covered services.


(4) *Recovery of accelerated payment.* Recovery of the accelerated payment is made by recoupment as inpatient psychiatric facility bills are processed or by direct payment by the inpatient psychiatric facility.



---

[N] [69 FR 66977, Nov. 15, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 26465, May 6, 2011]








