# § 52.2324   Original identification of plan.

(a) This section identifies the original “Air Implementation Plan for the State of Utah” and all revisions submitted by Utah that were federally approved prior to March 1, 2016.


(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 25, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) Clarifications of the plan relating to particulate regulations, CO and NO_2_ control strategies, new source review, emergency episodes, availability of emission data, and source surveillance submitted May 18, 1972, by State Division of Health.


(2) Revision of State new source review regulation, section 1.3.3 of the Utah Code of Air Conservation Regulations, submitted on September 13, 1972, by the Governor.


(3) Transportation control plan submitted April 13, 1973, by the Governor.


(4) Reenacted legislation providing for public availability of emission data submitted on June 13, 1974, by the State Division of Health.


(5) The Revised Utah Air Conservation Regulations on July 10, 1975, by the Governor.


(6) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D and other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on December 28, 1978, by the Governor.


(7) On November 5, 1979, the Governor submitted a plan revision to meet the requirements of Air Quality Monitoring, 40 CFR part 58, subpart C, § 58.20.


(8) Provisions to meet the transportation control requirements of Part D and other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on November 5, 1979, and August 11, 1980, by the Governor.


(9) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D for particulates and to attain the national standard for lead were submitted on March 11, 1980, July 25, 1980, November 13, 1980, December 26, 1980, and April 8, 1981.


(10) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part C of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, were submitted on August 17, 1981.


(11) Provisions to meet the requirements of section 127 and Part D for carbon monoxide and ozone were submitted on August 11, 1980.


(12) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for particulates and volatile organic compounds, were submitted on April 8, 1981.


(13) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for particulates were submitted on March 1, 1982.


(14) A revision to the definition of volatile organic compound was submitted on April 29, 1982.


(15) Provisions to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for carbon monoxide in Provo and Ogden, Utah were submitted on September 20, 1982.


(16) Additional information regarding stack monitoring at the main stack at the Kennecott Copper Smelter in Salt Lake City was submitted on December 27, 1982, and February 3, 1984.


(17) Provision to meet the requirements of Part D of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977 providing for implementing automobile inspection and maintenance in Salt Lake and Davis Counties were submitted on December 9, 1983, December 19, 1983, February 6, 1984, and March 1, 1984. A revision providing for the commitment to adopt regulations for VOC sources covered by future CTG's (Group III) was submitted on February 6, 1984.


(18) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor for attainment of the SO_2_ standard on August 17, 1981. Additional submittals January 25, 1983, and September 5, 1984.


(19) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on April 26, 1985, for visibility monitoring and new source review.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter dated April 26, 1985, from Governor Norman Bangerter submitting the Utah Visibility SIP and Regulations.


(B) The Visibility SIP and the Utah Air Conservation Regulations 1.1.7 and 3.11.1 were adopted on April 15, 1985 referred to in the Governor's letter as April 12, 1985.


(20) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on December 12, 1985, for attaintment of the CO standard in Utah County.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter and attachments dated December 12, 1985, from Governor Norman H. Bangerter submitting the SIP Revision for attainment of NAAQS for CO in Utah County. The attachments included Section 9, Part C; Section 9, Appendices A, C, H, and I; and Technical Support Document—Provo.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) Letter dated May 8, 1986, from Brent C. Bradford to Irwin Dickstein; Re: Response to questions on I/M with anti-tampering program.


(B) Letter and attachment dated May 15, 1986, from Brent Bradford to Irwin Dickstein transmitting Appendix D of the Technical Support Document.


(21) A revision to the SIP was submitted by the Governor on December 11, 1987, for visibility general plan requirements and long-term strategies.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter dated December 2, 1988, from the Utah Bureau of Air Quality to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII.


(B) A revised section 16, Visibility Protection, of the Utah SIP was adopted on November 12, 1987, except for the first three paragraphs of § 16.1, the fifth and sixth paragraph of § 16.4, and the second and third paragraphs of § 16.5.


(22) In a letter dated May 2, 1986, the Governor submitted revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations addressing GEP stack heights/dispersion techniques and a new Section 17 to the SIP addressing GEP stack height demonstration analysis.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations adopted April 18, 1986. The revisions consist of adding stack height definitions (UACR 1.1.128 through UACR 1.1.133) and updating stack height exemptions (UACR 3.8).


(B) Stack height demonstration analysis submitted by the State in a letter dated May 2, 1986.


(23) On May 2, 1991 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the plan. The revisions include amendments to the prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) portion of the plan to incorporate the nitrogen dioxide (NO_2_) increments, and several “housekeeping” changes to definitions, new source review, and PSD regulations.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, section R446-1-1, Foreword and Definitions, section R446-1-3, Control of Installations, and section R446-2-1, Utah State Implementation Plan Incorporation by Reference, effective January 1, 1991.


(B) Letter dated May 1, 1991, from Kenneth Hansen of the Utah Division of Administrative Rules to Dave McNeill of the Utah Bureau of Air Quality, confirming a codification change to paragraph R446-1-3.6.5, effective May 1, 1991. This letter contains a reprinted version of R446-1-3.6.5.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) February 26, 1991, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Conservation Committee, to Douglas M. Skie, EPA, transmitting administrative materials for the SIP revision.


(B) May 2, 1991, letter from Norman H. Bangerter, Governor, State of Utah, to James J. Scherer, EPA. Official SIP submittal, transmitting the SIP narrative modifying section 8, Prevention of Significant Deterioration, and other administrative materials.


(24) On May 4, 1990, and July 25, 1991, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the plan. The revisions include amendments to the ozone nonattainment area regulations for stationary sources of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), contained within Regulation R446-1-4.9 of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, “Emission Standards. Non-Attainment Area Requirements—Ozone,” and the definitions applicable to the VOC regulations, contained within Regulation R446-1-1, “Foreward and Definitions.” The amendments were made to conform Regulations R446-1-1 and R446-1-4.9 to statutory requirements for application of reasonably available control technology (RACT) to stationary sources of VOC's, as required by section 182(a)(2)(A) of the 1990 Clean Air Act, and to improve the clarity and enforceability of the regulations.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Revisions to the following Utah Air Conservation Regulations, Section R446-1-1, Foreward and Definitions, effective January 1, 1991: R446-1-1.10, 1.16, 1.40, 1.60, 1.109, 1.126, 1.140, 1.150, 1.151, 1.159, 1.160, 1.161, 1.162, 1.163, 1.164, 1.165, 1.166, 1.167, 1.168, 1.169, 1.170, 1.171, 1.172, 1.173, 1.174, 1.175, 1.176, 1.177, 1.178, 1.180, 1.182, 1.183, 1.184.


(B) Revisions to the following rules of R446-1-4.9, *Emission Standards. Non-Attainment Area Requirements—Ozone,* effective June 15, 1991: 4.9.A through 4.9.E were added (disposal of VOCs; requirements for EPA concurrence on alternative test methods, alternative methods of control, alternative compliance periods, alternative emission limits, or alternative monitoring schedules; recordkeeping and reporting requirements; RACT requirements for major non-CTG sources; “once-in, always-in” requirements; and allowance for exclusion of non-reactive VOC's); revisions to 4.9.1 (Petroleum Liquid Storage), 4.9.2 (Gasoline Transfer/Storage), 4.9.3 (Control of Hydrocarbon Emissions in Refineries), 4.9.4 (Degreasing and Solvent Cleaning Operations), 4.9.5 (Cutback Asphalt), 4.9.6 (Volatile Organic Compounds Used for Coating Paper, Fabric, Vinyl, Metal Furniture, Large Appliances, Magnet Wire, Flat Wood Paneling, Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products, and Graphic Arts), 4.9.7 (Perchlorethylene Dry Cleaning Plants), 4.9.8 (Compliance Schedule); 4.9.9 (Compliance Schedule) was deleted.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) May 9, 1991, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Conservation Committee, to Douglas Skie, EPA. This letter provided final changes to R446-1-4.9, indicated that these changes would become effective on June 15, 1991, and indicated that the State would submit the Ozone SIP revision package to EPA after the changes become effective.


(B) July 25, 1991, letter from Norman H. Bangerter, Governor, State of Utah, to James Scherer, EPA. Official SIP submittal, transmitting revised Regulation R446-1-4.9, and other administrative materials. This letter provided a negative declaration for seven CTG source categories: large petroleum dry cleaners, manufacturers of high density polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene resins, manufacturers of synthesized pharmaceutical products, manufacturers of pneumatic rubber tires, natural gas/gas processing plants, and synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industries (SOCMI) with fugitive emissions and/or air oxidation processes.


(C) September 5, 1991, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Quality Board, to James Scherer, EPA. This letter provided a negative declaration for three CTG source categories: surface coating of cans, surface coating of metal coils, and surface coating of automobiles and light duty trucks.


(D) January 30, 1992, letter from F. Burnell Cordner, Executive Secretary, Utah Air Quality Board, to Doug Skie, EPA. This letter contained the State's commitment to conduct capture efficiency testing using the most recent EPA capture efficiency protocols, and the commitment to adopt federal capture efficiency test methods after they are officially promulgated by EPA.


(25) The Governor of Utah submitted a PM_10_ State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah with a letter dated November 15, 1991. The submittals were made to satisfy those moderate PM_10_ nonattainment area SIP requirements due for Salt Lake and Utah Counties as outlined in the Clean Air Act of 1990. The Governor's submittal also included revisions to the Utah Air Quality Rules and to other sections of the State-wide SIP. The Utah Air Conservation Regulations have been revised and renumbered over the past decade and are being replaced in its entirely with this Governor's submittal. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, printed January 27, 1992. 


(B) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 1-7 and 10-15, effective March 31, 1992. 


(C) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 9, Part A and Section 9, Part A, Appendix A effective August 14, 1991.


(26) On November 9, 1992, Norman Bangerter, the Governor of Utah, submitted a SIP revision to the Utah Implementation Plan and Utah Air Conservation Regulations. This revision establishes and requires the implementation of oxygenated fuel programs in Provo-Orem and Salt Lake-Ogden Metropolitan Statistical Areas as required by section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) R307-8; Oxygenated Gasoline Program, of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations as adopted by the State, effective December 16, 1993. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) Letter dated November 9, 1992, from Governor Norman Bangerter submitting the oxygenated gasoline program SIP revision. 


(B) Letter dated May 19, 1994, from Governor Michael O. Leavitt submitting the oxygenated gasoline program SIP revision. 


(27) The Governor of Utah submitted a Section 16, Stack Height Demonstration and Section 9, Part B, Sulfur Dioxide of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) a letter dated December 23, 1991, and May 15, 1992, respectively. The Governor's submittal also included statewide SO_2_ regulations. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 16, effective December 16, 1991. 


(B) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section 9, Part B effective June 15, 1992. 


(C) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-4. Emission Standards: changes to 4.2 Sulfur Content of Fuels and 4.6.2, effective June 15, 1992.


(28) On November 12, 1993, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to its permitting requirements to satisfy the nonattainment new source review provisions in the amended Clean Air Act for all of its nonattainment areas. On May 20, 1994, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's definition of volatile organic compounds. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-1, the forward and the following definitions: “air contaminant,” “air contaminant source,” “air pollution,” “allowable emissions,” “ambient air,” “best available control technology (BACT),” “board,” “department,” “dispersion technique,” “emission limitation,” “executive director,” “executive secretary,” “major modification,” “major source,” “PM-10 precursor,” “person,” “temporary,” and “volatile organic compound (VOC);” effective November 15, 1993, printed June 24, 1994. 


(B) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-3.1.8, R307-1-3.1.10, and R307-1-3.3; effective August 16, 1993, printed May 26, 1994. 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) Letter dated October 18, 1994 from Russell A. Roberts to Douglas M. Skie clarifying applicability of Utah's nonattainment new source review permitting requirements.


(29) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan for the 1990 Carbon Monoxide Base Year emission inventories for Ogden City, Salt Lake City, and Utah County were submitted by the Governor in a letter dated July 11, 1994. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Carbon Monoxide 1990 Base Year Emission Inventories for Ogden City, Utah SIP, Section IX, Part C.3., Table IX.C.5; Salt Lake City, Utah SIP, Section IX, Part C.3., Table IX.C.4; and Utah County, Utah SIP, Section IX, Part C.6., Table IX.C.10 all of which became effective on August 31, 1994.


(30) On November 9, 1992, the Governor of Utah submitted a plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Assistance Program to be incorporated into the Utah State Implementation Plan as required by section 507 of the Clean Air Act.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Utah Code, Title 19, Chapter 2, Air Conservation Act, Sections 19-2-109.1 and 19-2-109.2, to establish and fund a small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program, effective April 27, 1992.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) November 9, 1992 letter from the Governor of Utah submitting a Small Business Assistance Program plan to EPA.


(B) The State of Utah plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Assistance Program, promulgated September 30, 1992 by the Utah Air Quality Board, effective December 1, 1992.


(31) On February 1, 1995, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the prevention of significant deterioration permitting regulations in R307-1-1 and R307-1-3 of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations to incorporate changes in the Federal PSD permitting regulations for PM-10 increments and to make other minor, administrative changes. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-1, the definitions of “baseline area,” “baseline date,” “net emissions increase,” and “significant,” effective 9/22/94, printed 10/24/94. 


(B) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-1-3, Sections 3.6.2.B, 3.6.2.D, 3.6.2.E, 3.6.3.A, 3.6.3.B, 3.6.3.D.(2) and (3), 3.6.4.A.(1), 3.6.4.C, 3.6.4.D, 3.6.5.A, 3.6.5.B.(1)(a), 3.6.5.C, 3.6.5.D, 3.6.5.E, 3.6.5.F, and 3.6.6, effective 10/1/94, printed 10/24/94. 


(32)-(33) [Reserved]


(34) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan for the Emission Statement Inventory regulation, UACR R307-1-3.5.4., revision of the ozone nonattainment area designation definition, UACR R307-1-3.3.3C, and other minor changes to definitions in UACR R307-1-1. were submitted by the Governor in a letter dated November 12, 1993. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Emission Statement Inventory regulation, UACR R307-1-3.5.4, ozone nonattainment area designation definition, UACR R307-1-3.3.3C, and the following definitions in UACR R307-1-1.; “Control Apparatus”, “Emissions Information”, “Peak Ozone Season”, “Process Level”, and “Process Rate”. All were adopted on August 4, 1993, and became effective on November 15, 1993. 


(B) A letter dated May 30, 1995, from Russell Roberts, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality to Douglas Skie, Chief, Air Programs Branch for Region 8.


(35) [Reserved]


(36) The Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Visibility Protection with a letter dated July 25, 1996. The revision was made to add a new subsection 15.10 to the SIP to include a policy statement regarding scenic views which was deleted from the Utah Air Conservation Regulations.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Utah State Implementation Plan, Subsection 15.10, Policy of the Air Conservation Committee Concerning the Protection of Scenic Views Associated with Mandatory Class I Areas from Significant Impairment for Visibility, adopted on March 26, 1993, and effective on March 29, 1993.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) A July 25, 1996 letter from Michael O. Leavitt, Utah Governor, to Jack McGraw, EPA Region VIII Acting Regional Administrator, in which it was communicated, among other things, that the Utah Air Quality Board deleted R307-5 from the Utah Air Conservation Regulations. The deletion was effective March 29, 1993.


(37) On November 20, 1996, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to the Utah State Implementation Plan. The submittal included a new Utah regulation which incorporates by reference the Federal new source performance standards in 40 CFR part 60, as in effect on March 12, 1996.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-18-1, “Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources (NSPS),” effective September 9, 1996, printed October 19, 1996.


(38) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part D, Ozone; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part B, Davis County; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County; Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County; UACR R307-1-3.3.3.C., a portion of Control of Installations; UACR R307-1-3.5.3.B.(1), a portion of Emission Statement Inventory; all as submitted by the Governor on February 19, 1997. EPA approved the above provisions. In addition, EPA approved, for the limited purpose of strengthening the SIP, revisions to UACR R307-14, Requirements for Ozone Nonattainment Areas and Davis and Salt Lake Counties, as submitted by the Governor on February 6, 1996. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R307-2-13 adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997, effective March 4, 1997, including Section IX, Part D.2 of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) that such rule incorporates by reference (Ozone Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake and Davis Counties, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997), and excluding any other provisions that such rule incorporates by reference. 


(B) The following State Approval Orders (AO): Pacificorp Gadsby Power Plant AO DAQE-0063-94 dated February 3, 1994, Kennecott Utah Copper Utah Power Plant AO DAQE-433-94 dated May 27, 1994, Hill Air Force Base (HAFB) AO DAQE-163-96 dated February 9, 1996, HAFB AO DAQE-1134-95 dated December 7, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-860-95 dated September 20, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-775-95 dated August 30, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-403-95 dated May 8, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-067-95 dated January 31, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-068-95 dated January 30, 1995, HAFB AO DAQE-915-94 dated October 18, 1994, HAFB AO DAQE-824-94 dated September 29, 1994, HAFB AO DAQE-0752-93 dated August 27, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-0719-93 dated August 20, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-0103-93 dated February 11, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-1171-92 dated January 4, 1993, HAFB AO DAQE-416-92 dated April 28, 1992, HAFB AO DAQE-167-92 dated February 19, 1992, HAFB AO DAQE-894-91 dated November 25, 1991, HAFB AO BAQE-039-91 dated February 7, 1991, HAFB AO BAQE-669-88 dated December 20, 1988, HAFB AO BAQE-525-88 dated October 13, 1988, HAFB AO BAQE-353-88 dated July 21, 1988, HAFB AO BAQE-026-88 dated January 20, 1988, HAFB AO for Industrial Wastewater Treatment Facility dated February 20, 1986, HAFB AO for Hydrazine Exhaust Incinerator dated February 5, 1985, HAFB AO for Paint Booth, HVAC Modification, Standby Generators, and Fuel Storage dated July 18, 1983, HAFB AO for Remodeling Base Exchange BX Service Station dated July 12, 1979, HAFB AO for Construction dated June 27, 1978, and the Olympia Sales Company AO DAQE-300-95 dated April 13, 1995. 


(C) UACR R307-2-18, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part A of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, General Requirements and Applicability. 


(D) UACR R307-2-31, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part B of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Davis County. 


(E) UACR R307-2-32, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part C of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Salt Lake County. 


(F) UACR R307-2-34, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 5, 1997, effective February 14, 1997. This rule incorporates by reference Section X, Part E of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Weber County. 


(G) UACR R307-1-3.3.3.C., a portion of Control of Installations, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997, effective January 15, 1997. 


(H) UACR R307-1-3.5.3.B.(1), a portion of Emission Statement Inventory regulation, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 8, 1997, effective January 15, 1997. 


(I) UACR R307-14-1, Requirements for Ozone Nonattainment Areas and Davis and Salt Lake Counties, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 9, 1995, effective on August 15, 1995. 


(39) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide as submitted by the Governor on December 6, 1996 (with minor mathematical corrections submitted by the Utah Division of Air Quality on August 12, 1998), excluding Section IX, Part C.7.f.(3) of the plan, “Emissions Credit Allocation,” as EPA is not taking any action on that section of the plan. UACR R307-1-3.3 Requirements for Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas—New and Modified Sources; as submitted by the Governor on November 24, 1995.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UACR R307-2-12, adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996 and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996, as modified through a notice of nonsubstantive rule change dated July 14, 1998, effective July 27, 1998, to correct minor mathematical errors in Section IX, Part C.7.f.(2) of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP). UACR R307-2-12 incorporates by reference a number of provisions of the Utah SIP, only some of which are relevant to this rulemaking action. EPA's incorporation by reference of UACR R307-2-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UACR R307-2-12 incorporates by reference:


Section IX, Part C.7 (except for Section IX, Part C.7.f.(3)), Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake City, adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996, and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996, as modified by the nonsubstantive rule change noted above.


(B) UACR R307-1-3.3, a portion of Requirements for Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas—New and Modified Sources, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on October 4, 1995, December 6, 1995, effective January 31, 1996.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) February 19, 1998, letter from Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality to Richard R. Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, entitled “DAQS-0188-98; Technical Support Documents—Ogden City and Salt Lake City CO Maintenance Plans.” This letter confirmed that all the emission projections, contained in the technical support documents for both the Salt Lake City and Ogden City redesignation requests, were properly adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board in accordance with the Utah Air Quality Rules.


(B) Materials from Jan Miller, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, received by Tim Russ, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, displaying the minor mathematical corrections to the on-road mobile source emission budgets in Section IX, Part C. 7.f.(2) of the Salt Lake City CO Maintenance Plan. These nonsubstantive changes were made in accordance with the Utah Air Quality Rules and were effective July 27, 1998.


(40) The Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan to revise Utah's definition of a volatile organic compound (VOC) and to include nonsubstantive wording changes regarding VOC emissions from air strippers and soil venting operations. The revisions to the VOC definition, found in UACR R307-1-1, were submitted by the Governor on November 8, 1995, February 12, 1996, November 20, 1996, May 15, 1997, and June 10, 1998. The revisions submitted November 8, 1995, February 12, 1996, November 20, 1996, and May 15, 1997, deleted volatile methyl siloxanes, parachlorobenzotrifluoride (PCBTF), acetone, perchloroethylene (PERC), HFC 43-10mee, HCFC 225ca and HCFC 225cb from the definition of VOCs. The June 10, 1998 submittal incorporated the deletion of 16 more pollutants from the federal list that were determined to have a negligible contribution to tropospheric ozone formation; the compounds are: HFC-32, HFC-161, HFC-236fa, HFC-245ca, HFC-245ea, HFC-245eb, HFC-245fa, HFC-236ea, HFC-365mfc, HCFC-31, HCFC-123a, HCFC-151a, C_4_F_9_OCH_3_, (CF_3_)_2_CFCF_2_OCH_3_, C_4_F_9_OC_2_H_5_, and (CF_3_)_2_CFCF_2_OC_2_H_5_ (compound names only are listed here, refer to 62 FR 44901, August 25, 1997 for the chemical name and 62 FR 44903, August 25, 1997 for the complete list of exempted VOCs). A second February 12, 1996 Governor's submittal contained minor wording revisions which were made to UACR R307-6-1 regarding VOC emissions from air strippers and soil venting operations. The revision submitted November 20, 1996 also repealed UACR R307-14-8 which had addressed requirements for perchloroethylene dry cleaning plants located in ozone nonattainment and maintenance areas.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UACR R307-1-1, a portion of Forward and Definitions, definition of VOC, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on January 7, 1998, effective January 8, 1998.


(B) UACR R307-6, a portion of *De minimis* Emissions from Air Strippers and Soil Venting Projects, nonsubstantive wording changes, effective October 1, 1995.


(41) On July 11, 1994 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) to revise the definition for “Sole Source of Heat” under UACR R307-1-1, “Foreword and Definitions,” to allow the exemption of those households with small portable heating devices from mandatory no-burn periods. This revision also made changes to the residential woodburning regulations under UACR R307-1-4.13.3 “No-Burn Periods,” which specifies the actions which must be taken if contingency measures are implemented in the Salt Lake, Davis or Utah County nonattainment areas. These plans were requested to be withdrawn by the Governor in a November 9, 1998, letter to the Regional Administrator. EPA returned the portions of these plans with a letter to the Governor on January 29, 1999. A nonsubstantive change was made in this section as a result of the revision which moves section 4.13.3 D to section 4.13.3.E; this change was also approved by EPA. On February 6, 1996 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan to revise Utah's open burning regulations, under UACR R307-1-2.4, to require that the local county fire marshal establish 30-day open burning windows during the spring and fall closed burning seasons in areas outside of Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, and Utah Counties as granted by the state forester. There were also minor changes made to the open burning regulations under UACR R307-1-2.4, “General Burning” and minor changes made to UACR R307-1-2.5 “Confidentiality of Information.” On July 9, 1998 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah SIP to add a definition for “PM_10_ Nonattainment Area,” under UACR R307-1-1, “Foreword and Definitions.”


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UACR R307-1-1, a portion of “Foreword and Definitions,” revision of definition for “Sole Source of Heat,” as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on December 9, 1993, effective on January 31, 1994.


(B) UACR R307-1-4, a portion of “Emissions Standards,” as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on December 9, 1993, effective on January 31, 1994.


(C) UACR R307-1-2, a portion of “General Requirements,” open burning changes and nonsubstantive wording changes, as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on September 6, 1995, effective on October 31, 1995.


(D) UACR R307-1-1, a portion of “Foreword and Definitions,” addition of definition for “PM_10_ Nonattainment Area,” as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on January 7, 1998, effective on January 8, 1998.


(ii) Additional Material.


(A) July 20, 1998, fax from Jan Miller, Utah Department of Air Quality, to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region VIII, transmitting Utah Code 65A-8-9, regarding closed fire seasons.


(B) October 21, 1998, letter from Richard R. Long, Director, EPA Air and Radiation Program, to Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, requesting that Utah withdraw the submitted Salt Lake and Davis County PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revisions, the Utah County PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revisions, and the Residential Woodburning in Salt Lake, Davis and Utah Counties PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revision.


(C) November 9, 1998, letter from the Governor of Utah, to William Yellowtail, EPA Region VIII Administrator, requesting that the submitted Salt Lake and Davis County and Utah County PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revisions and the Residential Woodburning in Salt Lake, Davis and Utah Counties PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revision be withdrawn.


(D) December 16, 1998, letter from Larry Svoboda, EPA Region VIII, to Ursula Trueman, Utah Department of Air Quality, clarifying revisions that were made to UACR R307-1-4.


(E) January 5, 1999, letter from Ursula Trueman, Utah Department of Air Quality, to William Yellowtail, EPA Region VIII Administrator, concurring on EPA's clarification of revisions that were made to UACR R307-1-4.


(F) January 29, 1999, letter from William Yellowtail, EPA Region VIII Administrator, to the Governor of Utah returning the Salt Lake and Davis County and Utah County PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revisions and the Residential Woodburning in Salt Lake, Davis and Utah Counties PM_10_ Contingency Measure SIP revision.


(42) On February 12, 1996, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions submitted revisions to the SIP that incorporate the General Conformity requirements of 40 CFR part 93, subpart B into the SIP and State regulation.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UACR R307-2-30, Section XXII, General Conformity, as adopted on October 4, 1995, effective October 12, 1995.


(B) UACR R307-19, General Conformity, as adopted on October 4, 1995, effective October 12, 1995.


(43) On February 1, 1995 the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah SIP to revise the provisions for road salting and sanding in Section 9, part A of the SIP and in UACR R307-1-3, updating the incorporation by reference in R307-2-1, deleting obsolete measures for nonferrous smelters in R307-1-3, and making nonsubstantive changes to UACR R307-1-1 and R307-1-3.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UACR R307-1-3, a portion of “Control of Installations,” revisions to road salting and sanding requirements and deletion of non ferrous smelter orders, as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on November 5, 1993, effective on January 3, 1994.


(B) UACR R307-2-1, “Incorporation by Reference,” revised date for incorporation by reference of the State Implementation Plan, as adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on January 31, 1994.


(C) UACR R307-1-1, “Foreword and Definitions,” nonsubstantive change made to definition of “PM_10_ precursor,” effective on June 1, 1994.


(D) UACR R307-1-3, “Control of Installations,” nonsubstantive changes to road salting and sanding, effective on June 1, 1994.


(ii) Additional Material.


(A) February 22, 1999 letter from Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, transmitting nonsubstantive change correction to R307-2-1, “Incorporation by Reference,” that was left out of the February 1, 1995 SIP submittal.


(B) March 16, 1999 letter from Larry Svoboda, Unit Leader, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, to Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, explaining EPA's interpretation of nonsubstantive revision to definition of “PM_10_ precursor.”


(C) April 28, 1999 letter from Richard Sprott, Planning Branch Manager, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Larry Svoboda, Unit Leader, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, providing explanation for and background to the “PM_10_ precursor” definition.


(D) August 26, 1999 fax from Jan Miller, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Cindy Rosenberg, EPA Region VIII Air and Radiation Program, transmitting documentation for effective date of the “PM_10_ precursor” definition. 


(44) On February 29, 2000, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to Section XI of the SIP that incorporate a new transportation control measure for Utah County into the SIP and State regulation. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R307-110-19, Section XI, Other Control Measures for Mobile Sources, as adopted on February 9, 2000, effective February 10, 2000. 


(B) Revisions to Section XI of the Utah SIP, Other Control Measures for Mobile Sources, adopted February 9, 2000, effective February 10, 2000. 


(45) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide (“Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden City”) as submitted by the Governor on December 9, 1996, excluding section IX, part C.8.f.(3) of the plan, “Emissions Credit Allocation,” as EPA is not taking any action on that section of the plan. UACR R307-8; Oxygenated Gasoline Program as submitted by the Governor on July 8, 1998. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R307-2-12, section IX, part C of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP), adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996, and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996. EPA's incorporation by reference of UACR R307-2-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UACR R307-2-12 incorporates by reference: 


Section IX, part C.8 (except for section IX, part C.8.f.(3)), “Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden City,” adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on August 7, 1996, and September 4, 1996, effective November 1, 1996. 


(B) UACR R307-8, Oxygenated Gasoline Program, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on April 21, 1998, effective April 22, 1998. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) February 19, 1998, letter from Ursula Trueman, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality to Richard R. Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, entitled “DAQS-0188-98; Technical Support Documents—Ogden City and Salt Lake City CO Maintenance Plans.” This letter confirmed that all the emission projections contained in the technical support documents for both the Salt Lake City and Ogden City redesignation requests were properly adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board in accordance with the Utah Air Quality Rules. 


(B) July 17, 2000, letter from Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, to Ursula Kramer, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, entitled “Federal Register Action for the Ogden City Carbon Monoxide (CO) Redesignation—Resolution of Issues with the Conformity Budgets.” 


(C) September 11, 2000, letter from Rick Sprott, Acting Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region VIII, entitled “DAQP-131-00; Ogden City Carbon Monoxide (CO) Redesignation—Resolution of Issues with the Conformity Budgets.” This letter provided clarification regarding the transportation conformity budgets in section IX.C.8 of the Ogden City maintenance plan SIP revision.


(46) On April 19, 2000, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the State's Air Conservation Regulations to update the definitions for “significant” and “volatile organic compound” to be in agreement with the federal definitions found at 40 CFR 51.166(23)(i) and 40 CFR 51.100(s)(1), July 1, 1998, respectively. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Utah Air Conservation Regulations section R307-101-2, definitions of “significant” and “volatile organic compound” (VOC), effective April 8, 1999.


(47) The Governor of Utah submitted a request to repeal sections R307-1-4.11 and R307-2-28, and revise R307-7of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations (UACR) on June 17, 1998. R307-1-4.11 is removed from the SIP. No action was taken on the repeal of R307-2-28 because it was never approved into the SIP. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R307-7 effective November 15, 1996.


(48) On August 14, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP to update UACR R307-110-33, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County. The changes involve a demonstration that Salt Lake County's test and repair I/M network is as effective as a test only I/M network. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R307-110-33, which incorporates by reference Utah SIP, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County and appendices 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, adopted by the UAQB August 1, 2001 and State effective on August 2, 2001. 


(49) On August 15, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP to update UACR R307-110-31, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability. This revision required the mandatory implementation of the inspection of vehicle On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) systems starting January 1, 2002 in all areas implementing an I/M program. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R-307-110-31 which incorporates by reference Utah SIP, Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability adopted by the UAQB on August 1, 2001 and State effective on August 2, 2001.


(50) The Governor of Utah submitted Rule R307-110-34 and Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County as part of the Utah State Implementation Plan on December 7, 2001. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Rule R307-110-34 and Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County, including appendices 1 through 6, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 1, 2001, effective October 2, 2001, published in the Utah State Bulletin issue of September 1, 2001. 


(ii) Additional Material. 


(A) Letter dated December 7, 2001 from Governor Michael O. Leavitt submitting Utah County's inspection and maintenance program state implementation plan revision. 


(B) Evaluation of the Utah County Inspection/Maintenance Program, dated May 20, 1999.


(51) On May 13, 2002, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP involving a new rule R307-310 “Salt Lake County: Trading of Emission Budgets for Transportation Conformity.” R307-310 allows trading from the motor vehicle emissions budget for primary Particulate Matter of 10 microns or less in diameter (PM_10_) in the Salt Lake County PM_10_ SIP to the motor vehicle emissions budget for Nitrogen Oxides (NO_X_) in the Salt Lake County PM_10_ SIP. This trading mechanism allows Salt Lake County to increase their NO_X_ budget in the Salt Lake County PM_10_ SIP by decreasing their PM_10_ budget by an equivalent amount. These adjusted budgets in the Salt Lake County PM_10_ SIP would then be used for transportation conformity purposes. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Rule R307-310 “Salt Lake County: Trading of Emission Budgets for Transportation Conformity”, as adopted on May 13, 2002, by the Utah Air Quality Board, and State effective on May 13, 2002.


(52) [Reserved]


(53) On September 27, 2001, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Utah's SIP involving R307-301 “Utah and Weber Counties: Oxygenated Gasoline Program.” Specifically, the State revised R307-301-3 “Average Oxygen Content Standard” to only require the implementation of a 2.7% oxygen by weight program and not a 3.1% program that the State had mandated in a 1998 revision. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Rule R307-301-3 “Average Oxygen Content Standard”, as adopted on September 5, 2001, by the Utah Air Quality Board, and State effective on September 10, 2001. This rule supersedes and replaces R307-8-3.1.B.


(54) On July 3, 2002, the Governor of Utah submitted a SIP revision revising the SIP for the Utah County nonattainment area for particulates of 10 microns in size or smaller (PM_10_). The Governor's submittal, among other things, revises the existing attainment demonstration in the approved PM_10_ SIP based on a short-term emissions inventory, establishes 24-hour emission limits for the major stationary sources in the Utah County PM_10_ nonattainment area and establishes motor vehicle emission budgets based on EPA's most recent mobile source emissions model, Mobile6. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Rule R307-110-10, which incorporates revisions to portions of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, “Control Measures for Area and Point Sources,” Part A, “Fine Particulate Matter” as adopted on July 3, 2002, by the Utah Air Quality Board, and State effective on September 5, 2002. (Section IX of the Utah SIP was formerly designated Section 9. The revisions to Section IX, Part A we are incorporating by reference with this action do not replace Section 9, Part A entirely, but revise portions of Section 9.A.3., 9.A.6, 9.A.7, 9.A.8, 9.A.9 of the previously approved Utah SIP and add a new Section IX.A.10.) 


(B) Rule R307-110-17, which incorporates revisions to portions of the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, “Control Measures for Area and Point Sources,” Part H, “Emission Limits,” as adopted on June 5, 2002, by the Utah Air Quality, and State effective on September 5, 2002. (Section IX, Part H of the Utah SIP was formerly designated Section 9, Appendix A. The revisions to Section IX, Part H we are incorporating by reference with this action replace the following sections of Section 9, Appendix A of the previously approved Utah SIP: Section 1.1 (General Requirements (Utah County)) and all subsections thereof; Section 1.2 (Particulate Emission Limitations (company specific)) and all subsections thereof.) 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) Letter dated August 9, 2002 from Richard Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region 8, transmitting the chronology of how the Utah County PM_10_ SIP revision was adopted over two Utah Air Quality Board meetings (June 5, 2002 and July 3, 2002) and the justification for the nonsubstantive revisions made between the two adoption dates. 


(B) Letter dated July 3, 2002 from Governor Michael O. Leavitt, State of Utah, to Robert E. Roberts, Regional Administrator, EPA Region 8, requesting EPA's approval of the Utah State Implementation Plan for PM_10_ in Utah County. 


(C) Commitment letter dated April 18, 2002 from Richard Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region 8, committing to work with us to address remaining issues with the PM_10_ SIPs for both the Utah and Salt Lake County nonattainment areas and with the Utah SIP in general. Utah will address these ongoing issues in a SIP revision (which may be in the form of a maintenance plan) that will be submitted by March 1, 2004. 


(D) Letter dated March 15, 2002 from, Richard Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality, to Richard Long, Director, Air and Radiation Program, EPA Region 8, accompanied by three volumes of Technical Support Documentation titled “Supplement II-02 to the Technical Support Documentation for the State Implementation Plan for PM_10_” for the Utah County PM_10_ SIP revision. 


(E) Utah's General Definition rule R307-101-2 as in effect at the time Utah adopted Section IX, Part H of the SIP revision on June 5, 2002. 


(F) All portions of the July 3, 2002 Utah PM_10_ SIP revision submittal, other than any documents or provisions mentioned in paragraph (c)(54)(i) of this section.


(55) [Reserved]


(56) On June 27, 1994 and April 28, 2000, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan. On December 31, 2002, the State of Utah submitted Supplemental Administrative Documentation. The June 27, 1994 submittal revises the numbering and format of Utah's State Implementation Plan (SIP). The April 28, 2000 and December 31, 2002 submittals contain non-substantive changes to correct minor errors in the June 27, 1994 submittal. The provisions identified below are approved into the SIP and supersede and replace the corresponding prior codification of the provisions of the SIP. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Utah State Implementation Plan Section I; Section II; Section III (except III.C); Section IV; Section V; Section VI; Section VII (except VII.D); Section IX, Part IX.B (except the title, IX.B.3.a, IX.B.3.d, IX.B.3.e, and IX.B.4); Section IX, Parts C, E, F and G (except the titles); Section IX, Part D.1 (except for the title and IX.D.1.d (5)); Section XI (Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 only); Section XII; Section XIII; Section XIV (except Table IX.9); Section XV; Section XVI; Section XVII (except XVII.A, XVII.D and XVII.E); Section XVIII (except XVIII.B); and Section XIX, effective 11/12/93. 


(B) Utah State Implementation Plan Section IX, Part IX.B.3.d; Section IX, titles of Parts B, C, D.1, E, F and G; Section XIV, Table XIV.9; Section XVII, Parts XVII.A, XVII.D and XVII.E; and Section XVIII, Part XVIII.B, effective 2/25/2000. 


(C) Utah State Implementation Plan Section III, Part III.C; Section VII, Part VII.D; Section VIII; Section IX, Parts IX.B.3.a, IX.B.3.e, IX.B.4, IX.C.7.b(3), IX.C.7.h(3), IX.C.8.b(3), IX.C.8.f(1)(a), IX.C.8.h(3)(a), IX.C.8.h(3)(c), IX.D.1.d(5), IX.D.2.b, IX.D.2.d(1)(a), IX.D.2.e(1), IX.D.2.f(1)(a), IX.D.2.h (except IX.D.2.h(2)), IX.D.2.i and IX.D.2.j; and Section XXII, effective January 1, 2003. 


(ii) Additional Material.


(A) October 3, 2002 letter from Rick Sprott, Utah Department of Air Quality, to Richard Long, EPA Region VIII, to address typographical errors and missing pages in the January 27, 1994 submittal.


(B) [Reserved]


(57) On September 7, 1999 and February 11, 2003, the Governor of Utah submitted revisions to the SIP. The submittals revise Utah's Air Conservation Regulations (UACR), R307-170, Continuous Emission Monitoring Program, by repealing and re-enacting the rule to clarify requirements of the rule. The revisions are being approved into the SIP. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) UACR R307-170, effective 4/1/1999, except sections R307-170-4, R307-170-5 and R307-170-9. 


(B) UACR sections R307-170-4, R307-170-5 and R307-170-9, effective December 5, 2002.


(58) On November 9, 2001 and September 16, 2003 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) to incorporate new and revise existing definitions in the new source review (NSR) rules. The revisions update the State's NSR rules so that they are consistent with the revisions EPA made to its NSR rules on July 21, 1992.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-101-2, the definitions “Actual Emissions,” “Clean Coal Technology,” “Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project,” “Electric Utility Steam Generating Unit,” “Emissions Unit,” “Pollution Control Project,” and “Representative Actual Annual Emissions,” effective 7/12/01.


(B) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-101-2, the definitions “Major Modification,” “Reactivation of Very Clean Coal-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Unit,” “Repowering,” and “Temporary Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project,” effective 6/1/03.


(C) Revisions to the Utah Air Conservation Regulations, R307-405-1, the definition “Major Modification” effective 6/1/03.


(59) On February 5, 2001, October 26, 2000, September 20, 1999, September 7, 1999, two State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions submitted February 6, 1996 and one on January 27, 1995, the State of Utah submitted SIP revisions that recodifies Utah's rules that had previously been approved into Utah's SIP; removed from Utah's SIP language that is obsolete or is generally not related to attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and is therefore not appropriate to be in Utah's SIP; and arranged rules to allow for a more coherent SIP structure.


(i) Incorporation by Reference.


(A) Utah Administrative Code (UAC) rule sections: R307-101-1 and 2 with the exception of the definitions for “actual emissions,” “major modification,” “part 70 source,” “significant,” and “volatile organic compound” effective September 15, 1998; R307-102-1 through R307-102-6 effective September 15, 1998 and R307-102-1(2) effective August 3, 2000; R307-105-1 and R307-105-2 effective September 15, 1998, R307-107-1 through R307-107-6 effective September 15, 1998; R307-110-1 through R307-110-9, R307-110-11, R307-110-13 through R307-110-15, R307-110-18, R307-110-20 through R307-110-28, R307-110-30, and R307-110-32 effective September 15, 1998; R307-115-1 effective September 15, 1998; R307-130-1 through R307-130-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-165-1 through R307-165-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-201-1 through R307-201-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-202-1 through R307-202-6 effective September 15, 1998; R307-203-1 through R307-203-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-206-1 through R307-206-5 effective September 15, 1998; R307-302-1, R302-302-2 (except paragraph (4)) and R307-302-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-305-1 through R307-305-7 effective September 15, 1998; R307-307-1 through R307-307-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-325-1 through R307-325-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-326-1 through R307-326-7 effective September 15, 1998; R307-327-1 through R307-327-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-328-1 through R307-328-5 effective September 15, 1998; R307-335-1 through R307-335-4 effective September 15, 1998; R307-340-1 through R307-340-13 effective September 15, 1998; R307-341-1 through R307-341-3 effective September 15, 1998; R307-342-1 through R307-342-7 effective September 15, 1998; R307-401-9 and R307-401-10(1) effective September 15, 1998; R307-403-1 through R307-403-9 effective September 15, 1998; R307-405-1 through R307-405-8 effective September 15, 1998; R307-406-1 through R307-406-6 effective September 15, 1998; R307-413-7 effective September 15, 1998; and R307-414-1 through R307-414-3 effective September 15, 1998.


(ii) Additional Material.


(A) Outline for Utah's Rules Reorganization effective September 15, 1998.


(B) July 6, 2000 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Ursula Kramer, Director, Utah Division of Environmental Quality requesting Utah to withdraw Utah SIP submittals dated April 30, 1998, October 9, 1998, and April 19, 2000.


(C) October 6, 2000 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Rick Sprott, Acting Director, Utah Division of Air Quality (UDAQ) notifying UDAQ of an October 6, 1995 EPA memorandum (included with the October 6, 2000 letter) stating that Clean Air Act section 172(c)(9) pertaining to contingency measures requirements would not apply to PM10 nonattainment areas that had attained the standard with at least 3 years of clean air quality and as long as the area continued to attain the standard.


(D) October 16, 2000 letter from Michael Leavitt, Governor of Utah to William Yellowtail, Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII requesting the withdraw of Utah's SIP submittals dated April 30, 1998, October 9, 1998, and April 19, 2000.


(E) April 2, 2002 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Rick Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality informing UDAQ of our intent to not act on Utah's SIP submittal dated October 26, 2000 and our intent to remove existing asbestos rule language (R701-1-8) from Utah's federally approved SIP.


(F) April 7, 2005 letter from Rick Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality agreeing with EPA on the exclusion of Utah rules R307-1-6, R307-121, R307-122, R307-135, R307-214, R307-215, R307-220, R307-221, R307-320, R307-332, R307-415, R307-417, and R307-1-8 from Utah's federally approved SIP.


(60) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Part C.7, “Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake City,” as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-12, “Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide,” as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section X, “Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County,” as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004; and revisions to UAC R307-110-33, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County,” as submitted by the Governor on October 19, 2004.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UAC R307-110-12, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on October 6, 2004, effective December 2, 2004. This incorporation by reference of UAC R307-110-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UAC R307-110-12 incorporates by reference: Section IX, Part C.7, “Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake City,” adopted by Utah Air Quality Board on October 6, 2004, effective December 2, 2004.


(B) UAC R307-110-33, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part C, Salt Lake County,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on October 6, 2004, effective October 7, 2004.


(61) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Part C.8, “Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden,” as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-12, “Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide,” as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Section X, “Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County,” as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004; and revisions to UAC R307-110-35, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County,” as submitted by the Governor on November 29, 2004.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UAC R307-110-12, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 3, 2004, effective January 4, 2005. This incorporation by reference of UAC R307-110-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UAC R307-110-12 incorporates by reference:


Section IX, Part C.8, “Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Provisions for Ogden,” adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 3, 2004, effective January 4, 2005.


(B) UAC R307-110-35, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part E, Weber County,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 3, 2004, effective November 4, 2004.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) A July 28, 2005 letter from Jan Miller, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Kerri Fiedler, EPA Region VIII, to address typographical errors in the November 29, 2004 submittal.


(B) An August 2, 2005 letter from Richard Sprott, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Gary House, Weber-Morgan Board of Health, addressing limits on Weber County authority to revise vehicle emission cutpoints.


(62) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, “Section IX, Part C.6, Carbon Monoxide Provisions for Provo,” as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-12, “Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part C, Carbon Monoxide,” as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability,” as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-31, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability,” as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County,” as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; revisions to UAC R307-110-34, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County,” as submitted by the Governor on April 1, 2004; the removal of UAC R307-301 from the Federally-approved SIP as requested by the Governor on April 1, 2004; and UAC R307-302-3, and UAC R307-302-4, “No-Burn Periods for Carbon Monoxide” and “Violations,” respectively, as submitted by the Governor on September 20, 1999.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) UAC R307-110-12, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004. This incorporation by reference of UAC R307-110-12 only extends to the following Utah SIP provisions and excludes any other provisions that UAC R307-110-12 incorporates by reference: “Section IX, Part C.6, Carbon Monoxide Provisions for Provo,” adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004.


(B) UAC R307-110-31, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004.


(C) UAC R307-110-34, “Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part D, Utah County,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on March 31, 2004, effective May 18, 2004.


(D) UAC R307-302-3, “No-Burn Periods for Carbon Monoxide,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 13, 1998, effective September 15, 1998.


(E) UAC R307-302-4, “Violations,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on August 13, 1998, effective September 15, 1998.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) An August 2, 2005 letter from Richard Sprott, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Jerry Grover, Utah County Commission, addressing limits on Utah County authority to revise vehicle emission cut-points.


(B) An August 19, 2005 letter from Richard Sprott, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Richard Long, EPA Region VIII, providing supplemental Technical Support Documentation to Volumes 11 and 12 of the State's Technical Support Document for the Provo area's carbon monoxide attainment demonstration and maintenance plan that was submitted by Governor Walker on April 1, 2004.


(C) A September 8, 2005 letter from Jan Miller, Utah Department of Environmental Quality, to Kerri Fiedler, EPA Region VIII, to address typographical errors in “Section X, Part D, Utah County Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Program” that was submitted by Governor Walker on April 1, 2004.


(63) Revisions to the definition of “Volatile Organic Compounds,” in UAC rule R307-101-2, as submitted by the Governor on November 11, 2005. Revisions to the definition of “Clearing Index,” in UAC rule R307-101-2, as submitted by the Governor on November 23, 2005.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Utah Administrative Code rule R307-101-2, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on July 6, 2005, effective on July 7, 2005. This incorporation by reference extends only to the definition of Volatile Organic Compounds and excludes any other provisions that R307-101-02 incorporates by reference.


(B) Utah Administrative Code rule R307-101-2, as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on September 7, 2005, effective on September 8, 2005. This incorporation by reference extends only to the definition of the Clearing Index and excludes any other provisions that R307-101-2 incorporates by reference.


(64) Revisions to State Implementation Plan were submitted by the State of Utah on February 7, 2006. The revisions are to the Utah Administrative Code to revise the continuous emission monitoring requirements for performance audits of acid rain monitors and to correct several typographical and grammatical errors.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Utah Administrative Code sections: R307-170-7(1); 307-170-4; *R307-170-5(1)(b);* R307-170-5(7); R307-170-7(6); R307-170-7(6)(a) and (b); and in R307-170-9 sections (5)(a) and (d), (6)(b), (*7*)(*a*)(*i*), (7)(b), and (9)(a); effective January 5, 2006.


(65) On March 22, 2007 the Governor of Utah submitted the addition to the Utah Administrative Code (UAC) of Rule R307-110-36. This rule incorporates by reference Section XXIII, Interstate Transport, of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP). The Interstate Transport declaration satisfies the requirements of Section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) of the Clean Air Act (CAA). On September 17, 2007, the Governor of Utah also submitted an amendment to the UAC Rule R307-130-4, “Options,” that removes from the text a typographical error. It removes the word “not” which had been accidentally placed in this rule.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Addition to the UAC of rule R307-110-36 that incorporates by reference Section XXIII, “Interstate Transport,” of the Utah SIP. Rule R307-110-36 was adopted by the UAQB on February 7, 2007, effective February 9, 2007, and it was submitted by the Governor to EPA on March 22, 2007.


(B) Revision to UAC Rule R307-130-4, “Options.” This revision removes from the text the word “not.” The amended text was adopted by the UAQB on June 21, 2007, effective July 13, 2007, and it was submitted by the Utah Governor to EPA on September 17, 2007.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) Replacement page for UAC Rule R307-110-36 attached to the March 22, 2007 submittal letter by the Utah Governor to EPA. The new page correctly refers to Section XXIII of the Utah SIP instead of the incorrect reference to Section XXII included in the corresponding page submitted with the Administrative Documentation for Rule R307-110-36.


(66) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, “Section XII, Transportation Conformity Consultation,” as submitted by the Governor on June 26, 2007; and revisions to UAC R307-110-20, “Section XII, Transportation Conformity Consultation,” as submitted by the Governor on June 26, 2007.


(i) Incorporation by Reference.


(A) UAC R307-110-20, “Section XII, Transportation Conformity Consultation,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on May 2, 2007, effective on May 2, 2007.


(67) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan, Sections R307-101-2, “Definitions,” R307-115-1, “Determining Conformity,” R307-170-7, “Performance Specification Audits,” R307-310-2, “Definitions,” and R307-101-3, “Version of CFR Incorporated by Reference,” as submitted by the Governor on April 17, 2008.


(i) Incorporation by Reference.


(A) UAC R307-101-2, “Definitions,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 6, 2008, effective on February 8, 2008.


(B) UAC R307-115-1, “Determining Conformity,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 6, 2008, effective on February 8, 2008.


(C) UAC R307-170-7, “Performance Specification Audits,” as by the Utah Air Quality Board adopted on February 6, 2008, effective on February 8, 2008.


(D) UAC R307-310-2, “Definitions,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 6, 2008, effective on February 8, 2008.


(E) UAC R307-101-3, “Version of CFR Incorporated by Reference,” as adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on February 6, 2008, effective on February 8, 2008.


(68) On September 7, 1999 and December 1, 2003 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) to incorporate the requirements of the Consolidated Emission Reporting Rule (CERR). The revisions update the State's emission reporting rules so that they are consistent with the revisions EPA made to the CERR on June 10, 2002.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A). Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, Rule 307-221 EMISSION STANDARDS: EMISSION CONTROLS FOR EXISTING MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS, Rule 307-221-1, Purpose and Applicability. Effective January 7, 1999. Published in the Utah State Bulletin, Volume 98, Number 22, November 15, 1998.


(B). Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, Rule 307-150 EMISSION INVENTORIES, Rule 150-1, Purpose and General Requirements; Rule 150-2 Definitions; Rule 150-3 Applicability; Rule 307-150-5 Sources Identified in R307-150-3(2); Rule 307-150-6 Sources Identified in R307-150-3(3); Rule 307-150-7 Sources Identified in R307-150-3(4). Effective December 31, 2003. Published in the Utah State Bulletin, Volume 23, Number 23, December 1, 2003.


(ii) Additional Material.


(A) October 15, 2002 letter from Richard Long, EPA Region VIII to Rick Sprott, Director, Utah Division of Air Quality (UDAQ) notifying UDAQ of the June 10, 2002 publication of the Consolidated Emission Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 51, Subpart A) and the need for the State to update its emission inventory reporting requirements.


(69) On September 15, 2006 and March 7, 2008 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) that contained revised rules pertaining to the State's Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) preconstruction permit program.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) The Utah Administrative Code (UAC), R307-110-9, *Section VIII, Prevention of Significant Deterioration,* is amended effective June 16, 2006.


(B) The Utah Administrative Code (UAC), R307-405, *Permits: Major Sources in Attainment or Unclassified Areas (PSD),* (except R307-405-3(2)(a)(i), “Major Source Baseline Date”) is amended effective September 7, 2007.


(70) On February 22, 1999, the Governor submitted revisions to the Ozone Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake and Davis Counties, Section IX, Part D.2 of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP). EPA is approving the revisions except for the following: the revisions to Section IX.D.2.h(2) of the SIP, “Determination of Contingency Action Level,” which EPA is disapproving; the revisions to the remainder of Section IX.D.2.h, which were superseded by revisions to the SIP that EPA approved at § 52.2320(c)(56); and the revisions to Sections IX.D.2.b, IX.D.2.d(1)(a), IX.D.2.e(1), IX.D.2.f(1)(a), IX.D.2.i, and IX.D.2.j, which were superseded by revisions to the SIP that EPA approved at § 52.2320(c)(56).


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) Additional material.


(A) Ozone Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake and Davis Counties, Section IX, Part D.2 that was adopted by the Air Quality Board on June 3, 1998 and submitted by the Governor on February 22, 1999.


(71) On May 26, 2011 and September 29, 2011, the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan to incorporate the requirements of the regional haze program.


(i) Incorporation by reference


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-150—*Emission Inventories,* sections -1, *Purpose and General Requirements,* -2, *Definitions,* -3, *Applicability,* -5, *Sources Identified in R307-150(3)(2), Large Major Source Inventory Requirements,* -6, *Sources Identified in R307-150-3(3),* -7, *Sources Identified in R307-150-3(4), Other Part 70 Sources,* and -8, *Exempted Hazardous Air Pollutants.* Effective December 31, 2003; as published in the Utah State Bulletin December 1, 2003 and January 15, 2004.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-150—*Emission Inventories,* section -4, *Sulfur Dioxide Milestone Emission Inventory Requirements.* Effective September 4, 2008; as published in the Utah State Bulletin July 1, 2008 and October 1, 2008.


(C) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-250—*Western Backstop Sulfur Dioxide Trading Program,* sections -1, *Purpose,* -3, *WEB Trading Program Trigger,* -10, *Allowance Transfers,* -11, *Use of Allowances from a Previous Year,* and -13, *Special Penalty Provisions for the 2018 Milestone.* Effective December 31, 2003; as published in the Utah State Bulletin December 1, 2003 and January 15, 2004.


(D) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-250—*Western Backstop Sulfur Dioxide Trading Program,* sections -2, *Definitions,* -4, *WEB Trading Program Applicability,* -5, *Account Representative for WEB Sources, -*6, *Registration,* -7, *Allowance Allocations,* -8, *Establishment of Accounts,* -9, *Monitoring, Recordkeeping, and Reporting,* and -12, *Compliance.* Effective November 10, 2008; as published in the Utah State Bulletin October 1, 2008 and December 1, 2008.


(ii) Additional materials


(A) Section XX of the Utah *Regional Haze State Implementation Plan.* Effective April 7, 2011. Published in the Utah State Bulletin February 1, 2011.


(72) On May 26, 2011 and September 29, 2011, the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan to incorporate the smoke management requirements of the regional haze program.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-204—*Emission Standards: Smoke Management,* sections -1, *Purpose and Goals,* and -2, *Applicability.* Effective December 31, 2003; as published in the Utah State Bulletin October 1, 2003 and January 15, 2004.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-204—*Emission Standards: Smoke Management,* section -4, *General Requirements.* Effective April 7, 2006; as published in the Utah State Bulletin March 1, 2006 and May 1, 2006.


(C) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, Rule R307-204—*Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-204—*Emission Standards: Smoke Management,* sections -3, *Definitions,* -5, *Burn Schedule,* -6, *Small Prescribed Fires (de minimis),* -7, *Small Prescribed Pile Fires (de minimis),* -8, *Large Prescribed Fires,* -9, *Large Prescribed Pile Fires*, and -10, *Requirements for Wildland Fire Use Events.* Effective July 7, 2011; as published in the Utah State Bulletin May 1, 2011 and August 1, 2011.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Section XX.G of the Utah *Regional Haze State Implementation Pan.* Effective April 7, 2011. Published in the Utah State Bulletin February 1, 2011.


(73) On March 22, 2007, the Governor submitted revisions to Section IX, Part D of the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) in the form of a maintenance plan for the 1997 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for Salt Lake County and Davis County. On March 22, 2007, the Governor also submitted revisions to associated rules: UAC R307-101-2, R307-110-13, R307-320, R307-325, R307-326, R307-327, R307-328, R307-335, R307-340, R307-341, and R307-342. EPA is approving the maintenance plan, except for the following aspects, which EPA is disapproving: those contingency measures listed in section 6.d of the State's maintenance plan that are voluntary in nature, which consist of: “Alert Day Enhancements,” “Heavy Equipment Emission Control Program,” “Reduce Emissions of VOCs” (to the extent the State would adopt and implement the measure as a voluntary commitment rather than a regulatory measure), “Identification of High-Polluting Vehicles,” and “Other VOC or NO_X_ emissions control measures as appropriate” (to the extent such measures would be voluntary); the contingency measure listed in section 6.d of the State's maintenance plan as “Establish an Offset Ratio for NO_X_;” the State's proposal in section 5.a.(3)(b)of the maintenance plan to remove from the SIP the VOC RACT approval orders for Hill Air Force Base; the State's proposal in section 5.b.(1) of the maintenance plan to remove from the SIP the NO_X_ RACT limits for the PacifiCorp Gadsby Power Plant; and section 5.g of the maintenance plan, which indicates that the employer-based trip reduction program is included as part of the plan. EPA is approving the revisions to UAC R307-110-13, which incorporates the maintenance plan into Utah's rules, but only to the extent we are approving the 1997 8-hour ozone maintenance plan. EPA is disapproving UAC R307-320, the employer-based trip reduction program. EPA is approving the revisions to UAC R307-325, R307-326, R307-327, R307-328, R307-335, R307-340, R307-341, and R307-342, subject to our interpretation of these rules expressed in the preamble to our rulemaking action. EPA is not acting on the revisions to UAC R307-101-2 because the revisions have been superseded by later revisions to the rule, which EPA approved at § 52.2320(c)(67).


(i) *Incorporation by reference.*

(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-325, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: General Requirements;* Rule R307-326, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: Control of Hydrocarbon Emissions in Petroleum Refineries;* Rule R307-327, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: Petroleum Liquid Storage;* and Rule R307-340, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: Surface Coating Processes.* Effective March 9, 2007, as published in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2006 and February 1, 2007 in proposed form, and April 1, 2007 as finally adopted.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-328, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas and Utah and Weber Counties: Gasoline Transfer and Storage;* Rule R307-335, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: Degreasing and Solvent Cleaning Operations;* Rule R307-341, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: Cutback Asphalt;* and, UAC R307-342, *Ozone Nonattainment and Maintenance Areas: Qualification of Contractors and Test Procedures for Vapor Recovery Systems for Gasoline Delivery Tanks.* Effective January 16, 2007 as published in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2006 in proposed form and February 1, 2007 as finally adopted.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Utah State Implementation Plan, Section IX, Part D, *8-Hour Ozone Maintenance Provisions for Salt Lake and Davis Counties*, with the following exceptions: Subsection 5.a.(*3*)(b), paragraphs 2, 3, and 4, beginning with “The State of Utah . . .” and ending with “. . . (Stratospheric Ozone).” on pages 17 and 18; subsection 5.b.(1), beginning in paragraph 1 at “On April 3, 2002 . . .” and ending with “the ozone maintenance plan.” at the end of paragraph 2 on page 18; subsection 5.g., *Control Measure Carried Forward from the 1-hour Ozone Plan,* on page 20; subsection 6.d., first bullet, *Alert Day Enhancements, on page 22;* subsection 6.d., third bullet, *Heavy Equipment Emission Control Program, on page 22;* subsection 6.d., fourth bullet, phrase “Request voluntary commitments or” on page 23; subsection 6.d., fifth bullet, *Identification of High-Polluting Vehicles, on page 23;* and, subsection 6.d., sixth bullet, *Establish an Offset Ratio for NO*_X_, *on page 23.* Adopted by the Air Quality Board on January 3, 2007.


(74) On August 16, 2012 the State of Utah submitted as a SIP revision a revised version of its breakdown rule, Utah Administrative Code (UAC) R307-107, which replaces the prior version of UAC R307-107.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-107, *General Requirements: Breakdowns.* Effective July 31, 2012; as published in the Utah State Bulletin on March 1, 2012, modified on July 1, 2012, and August 15, 2012. Note: The August 15, 2012 publication contains a typographical error in the title of Rule R307-107.


(75) On September 15, 2006, the Governor submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) permitting rules. The September 15, 2006 submittal contains new, amended and renumbered rules in Utah Administrative Code (UAC) Title R-307 that pertain to the issuance of Utah air quality permits. EPA is approving the following rules or parts of rules from the September 15, 2006 submittal: R307-401-1 through 6; R307-401-8; R307-401-9 (except for paragraph (b) and the portions of paragraph (c) that reference paragraph (b)); R307-401-10 through 11; R307-401-13; R307-401-17 through 20; and R307-410-1 through 4. EPA is disapproving the following rules or parts of rules from the September 15, 2006 submittal: R307-401-7; R307-401-9(b) and the portions of 9(c) that reference (9)(b); R307-401-12; and R307-410-5. EPA is limitedly approving and limitedly disapproving R307-410-6 from the September 15, 2006 submittal—this means EPA is approving this rule because it will strengthen the SIP but is simultaneously disapproving it because it does not fully comply with applicable requirements. EPA is not acting on the revisions to UAC R307-101-2 because the revisions have been superseded by later revisions to the rule, which EPA approved at § 52.2320(c)(67) (see 73 FR 51222). EPA is not acting on R307-401-14 through 16 because EPA previously acted on such provisions (notice of final rulemaking signed October 19, 2012).


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-401, *Permits: New and Modified Sources,* Rule R307-401-1, *Purpose;* Rule R307-401-2, *Definitions;* Rule R307-401-3, *Applicability;* Rule R307-401-4, *General Requirements;* Rule R307-401-5, *Notice of Intent;* Rule R307-401-6, *Review Period;* Rule R307-401-8, *Approval Order;* R307-401-9, *Small Source Exemption* except for R307-401-9(1)(b) and the phrase “or (b)” in R307-401-9(1)(c); Rule R307-401-10, *Source Category Exemptions;* Rule R307-401-11, *Replacement-in-Kind Equipment;* Rule R307-401-13, *Plantwide Applicability Limits;* Rule R307-401-17, *Temporary Relocation;* Rule R307-401-18, *Eighteen Month Review;* Rule R307-401-19, *Analysis of Alternatives;* and Rule R307-401-20, *Relaxation of Limitations.* Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-410, *Permits: Emissions Impact Analysis,* Rule R307-410-1, *Purpose;* Rule R307-410-2, *Definitions;* Rule R307-410-3, *Use of Dispersion Models;* R307-410-4, *Modeling of Criteria Pollutant Impacts in Attainment Areas;* and R307-410-6, *Stack Heights and Dispersion Techniques.* Effective June 16, 2006, as published in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2005, modified on April 1, 2006, and July 15, 2006. _Note:_ The July 15, 2006 publication contains a typographical error in the title for Rule R307-410.


(76) On April 14, 2011 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) that contained revised rules, submitted in their entirety, pertaining to regulation of Greenhouse Gases (GHGs) under the State's Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code (UAC), *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-401, *Permit: New and Modified Sources,* R307-401-9, *Small Source Exemption,* (5); and R307-405, *Permits: Major Sources in Attainment or Unclassified Areas (PSD),* R307-405-3, *Definitions,* except (2)(a), (b), (f), (5), and (6); effective January 1, 2011, as published in the Utah State Bulletin on September 15, 2010 and December 15, 2010.


(77) On February 6, 1996, Utah submitted as a revision to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) a “Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program,” Section XXI of the Utah SIP. EPA is disapproving the Utah Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program as submitted on February 6, 1996. On September 20, 1999 the State of Utah submitted revisions to its SIP that revised the numbering and format of the Utah Administrative Code rules within Utah's SIP. From the September 20, 1999 submittal, EPA is approving R307-110-16, “Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part G, Fluoride,” and disapproving R307-110-29, “Section XXI, Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program,” which incorporated Utah's Diesel Inspection and Maintenance Program by reference into Utah's rules. EPA has previously acted on other provisions from the September 20, 1999 submittal.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-110, *General Requirements: State Implementation Plan,* R307-110-16, *Section IX, Control Measures for Area and Point Sources, Part G, Fluoride;* effective September 15, 1998; as published in the Utah State Bulletin on June 1, 1998 and October 1, 1998.


(78) On April 17, 2008 the State of Utah submitted revisions to the Utah Administrative Code (UAC) R307-401-14, *Used Oil Fuel Burned for Energy Recovery.* On September 15, 2006 the State of Utah submitted revisions to the UAC R307-401-15, *Air Strippers and Soil Venting Projects,* and R307-401-16, *De minimis Emissions From Soil Aeration Projects.*

(i) Incorporation by Reference


(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* Rule R307-401-14, *Used Oil Fuel Burned for Energy Recovery.* Effective February 8, 2008; as published in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2007 and March 1, 2008.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-401-15, *Air Strippers and Soil Venting Projects,* and R307-401-16, *De minimis Emissions From Soil Aeration Projects.* Effective June 16, 2006; as published in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2005 and July 15, 2006.


(79) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan involving Utah Rule R307-311; *Utah County: Trading of Emission Budgets for Transportation Conformity.* The Utah Air Quality Board adopted this SIP revision on March 4, 2015, it became state effective on March 5, 2015, and was submitted by the Governor to EPA by a letter dated March 9, 2015.


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Utah Rules R307, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-311, *Utah County: Trading of Emission Budgets for Transportation Conformity.* Effective March 5, 2015, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on January 1, 2015 and published on April 1, 2015 as effective.


(80) Revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan involving Section X, *Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program,* Part A, *General Requirements and Applicability,* and Utah Rules R307-110-1 and R307-110-31. The Utah Air Quality Board (UAQB) adopted these SIP revisions on December 5, 2012, they became state effective on December 6, 2012, and were submitted by the Governor to EPA by a letter dated January 10, 2013. In addition, revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan involving; Section X, *Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program,* Part F, *Cache County* and Utah Rule R307-110-36 were submitted for Agency action. These SIP revisions were adopted by the UAQB November 6, 2013, they became State effective on November 7, 2013, and were submitted by the Governor to EPA by a letter dated January 28, 2014.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A)(*1*) Utah Rules R307, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-110, *General Requirements: State Implementation Plan,* R307-110-1, *Incorporation by Reference,* and R307-110-31, *Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability;* effective December 6, 2012, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012, and published as adopted in the Utah State Bulletin on January 1, 2013.


(*2*) *Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part A, General Requirements and Applicability,* adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on December 5, 2012. 


(B)(*1*) Utah Rule R307, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-110, *General Requirements: State Implementation Plan,* R307-110-36, *Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, Part F, Cache County;* effective November 7, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on September 1, 2013, and published as adopted in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2013.


(*2*) *Section X, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program Part F, Cache County,* adopted by the Utah Air Quality Board on November 6, 2013.


(81) On February 25, 2013, August 5, 2013, and March 5, 2014, the Governor submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) rules. The February 25, 2013 submittal renumbers Interstate Transport to R307-110-37. The August 5, 2013 SIP revisions give the Director of the Division of Air Quality the authority to make regulatory decisions that were previously made by either the Air Quality Board or the Executive Secretary of the Air Quality Board. The March 5, 2014 submittal establishes a 30-day public comment period for the public notice and comment period for all actions for new or modified sources. EPA is approving these revisions.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.*

(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-110, *General Requirements: State Implementation Plan*, R307-110-37, *Section XXIII, Interstate Transport*; effective December 6, 2012, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on January 1, 2013.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-401, *Permit: New and Modified Sources*, R307-401-7, *Public Notice*; effective October 3, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on August 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on November 1, 2013.


(C) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-101, *General Requirements*; effective November 8, 2012, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on September 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2012.


(D) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-102, *General Requirements: Broadly Applicable Requirements*; effective November 8, 2012, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on September 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2012.


(E) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-307, *Davis, Salt Lake, and Utah Counties: Road Salting and Sanding*; effective November 8, 2012, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on September 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2012.


(82) On January 28, 2010, September 16, 2010, June 18, 2013, November 4, 2013 and August 29, 2014, the Governor submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP). We are approving the January 28, 2010 revisions to R307-405-2, with the exception of the proposed change to the incorporation by reference date, and approving all of the revisions to R307-102. We are approving the June 18, 2013 SIP revisions, with the exception of the non-substantive change to re-number R307-410-5(1)[(d)] to R307-410-5(1)(c)(i)(C). The August 29, 2014 submittal's newly amended rule supersedes and replaces all previous versions of submittals of R307-101-3, *General Requirements, Version of Code of Federal Regulations Incorporated by Reference.* EPA is approving the August 29, 2014 revisions. Previous submittals of R307-101-3 were received on January 28, 2010, September 16, 2010, April 26, 2012 and November 4, 2013. No further EPA action is required on these earlier submittals.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.*

(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-101, *General Requirements*, R307-101-2, *Definitions*; effective December 2, 2009 as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2009, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on January 1, 2010.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-101, *General Requirements*, R307-101-3, *Version of Code of Federal Regulations Incorporated by Reference*; effective August 7, 2014, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on June 1, 2014, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on September 1, 2014.


(C) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-401, *Permit: New and Modified Sources*, R307-401-15, *Air Strippers and Soil Venting Projects*; effective February 7, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on December 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on March 1, 2013.


(D) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality*, R307-405, *Permits: Major Sources in Attainment or Unclassified Areas (PSD)*, R307-405-2, *Applicability*; effective February 5, 2009, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on November 1, 2008, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on March 1, 2009.


(83) On February 2, 2012, May 9, 2013, June 8, 2013, February 18, 2014, April 17, 2014, May 20, 2014, July 10, 2014, August 6, 2014, and December 9, 2014, the Governor submitted revisions to the Utah State Implementation Plan (SIP) rules. The EPA is approving the repeal of R307-340 and R307-342. The EPA is approving the submitted revisions and associated nonsubstantive changes to the following rules: R307-307, R307-351-2, R307-351-4, and R307-355-5. The EPA is conditionally approving the submitted revisions to the following rules: R307-101 (including nonsubstantive changes to R307-101-2), R307-312-5(2)(a), and R307-328-4(6). The EPA is approving the submitted revisions to the following rules: R307-303, R307-307, R307-312 (except R307-312-5(2)(a) which is conditionally approved), R307-328 (except R307-328-4(6) which is conditionally approved), R307-335, R307-342, R307-343, R307-344, R307-345, R307-346, R307-347, R307-348, R307-349, R307-350, R307-351 (except R307-351-2 which is approved with nonsubstantive changes), R307-352, R307-353, R307-354, R307-355 (except R307-355-5 which is approved with nonsubstantive changes), R307-356, R307-357, R307-357-4, and R307-361.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.*

(A) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-101, *General Requirements,* R307-101-2, *Definitions;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(B) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-303, *Commercial Cooking;* effective April 10, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on August 1, 2012, December 1, 2012 and March 1, 2013 and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on May 1, 2013.


(C) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-328, *Gasoline Transfer and Storage;* effective June 7, 2011, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on February 1, 2011 and May 1, 2011, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on June 15, 2011.


(D) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-335, *Degreasing and Solvent Cleaning Operations;* effective January 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on August 1, 2012 and December 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on January 15, 2013.


(E)(*1*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-342, *Adhesives and Sealants;* effective August 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on March 1, 2013 and July 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on August 15, 2013.


(*2*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-357, *Consumer Products* (except R307-357-4, *Standards*); effective August 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on March 1, 2013 and July 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on August 15, 2013.


(F)(*1*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-343, *Emissions Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations;* effective May 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012, January 1, 2013 and April 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on May 15, 2013.


(*2*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-353, *Plastic Parts Coatings;* effective May 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012, January 1, 2013 and April 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on May 15, 2013.


(G)(*1*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-312, *Aggregate Processing Operations for PM*_2.5_*Nonattainment Areas;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*2*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-344, *Paper, Film and Foil Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*3*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-345, *Fabric and Vinyl Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*4*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-346, *Metal Furniture Surface Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*5*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-347, *Large Appliance Surface Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*6*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-348, *Magnet Wire Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*7*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-349, *Flat Wood Panel Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*8*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-352, *Metal Container, Closure and Coil Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(*9*) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-354, *Automotive Refinishing Coatings;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(H) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-350, *Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products Coatings;* effective December 3, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on August 1, 2013 and November 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on January 1, 2014.


(I) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-356, *Appliance Pilot Light;* effective January 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on August 15, 2012, and December 1, 2012, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on January 15, 2013.


(J) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-357, *Consumer Products,* R307-357-4, *Consumer Products, Standards;* effective May 8, 2014, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on April 1, 2014, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on June 1, 2014.


(K) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-361, *Architectural Coatings;* effective October 31, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on July 1, 2013 and October 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on November 15, 2013.


(L) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-307, *Road Salting and Sanding;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(M) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-351, *Graphic Arts;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.


(N) Title R307 of the Utah Administrative Code, *Environmental Quality, Air Quality,* R307-355, *Control of Emissions from Aerospace Manufacture and Rework Facilities;* effective February 1, 2013, as proposed in the Utah State Bulletin on October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013, and published as effective in the Utah State Bulletin on February 15, 2013.



---

[N] [37 FR 10898, May 31, 1972, as amended at 79 FR 27193, May 13, 2014; 81 FR 4958, 4961, Jan. 29, 2016; 81 FR 9345, Feb. 25, 2016. Redesignated and amended at 81 FR 39200, June 16, 2016]




