# § 5.33   Business combinations involving a national bank or Federal savings association.

(a) *Authority.* 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh), 93a, 181, 214a, 214b, 215, 215a, 215a-1, 215a-3, 215b, 215c, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1828(c), 1831u, 2903, and 5412(b)(2)(B).


(b) *Scope.* This section sets forth the provisions governing business combinations and the standards for:


(1) OCC review and approval of an application by a national bank or a Federal savings association for a business combination resulting in a national bank or Federal savings association; and


(2) Requirements of notices and other procedures for national banks and Federal savings associations involved in other combinations in which a national bank or Federal savings association is not the resulting institution.


(c) *Licensing requirements.* As prescribed by this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must submit an application and obtain prior OCC approval for a business combination when the resulting institution is a national bank or Federal savings association. As prescribed by this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must give notice to the OCC prior to engaging in any other combination where the resulting institution will not be a national bank or Federal savings association.
1 A national bank must submit an application and obtain prior OCC approval for any merger between the national bank and one or more of its nonbank affiliates.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Bank* means any national bank or any State bank.


(2) *Business combination* means:


(i) Any merger or consolidation between a national bank or a Federal savings association and one or more depository institutions or State trust companies, in which the resulting institution is a national bank or Federal savings association;


(ii) In the case of a Federal savings association, any merger or consolidation with a credit union in which the resulting institution is a Federal savings association;


(iii) In the case of a national bank, any merger between a national bank and one or more of its nonbank affiliates;


(iv) The acquisition by a national bank or a Federal savings association of all, or substantially all, of the assets of another depository institution; or


(v) The assumption by a national bank or a Federal savings association of any deposit liabilities of another insured depository institution or any deposit accounts or other liabilities of a credit union or any other institution that will become deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Company* means a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, business trust, association, or similar organization.


(5) For business combinations under paragraphs (g)(4) and (5) of this section, a company or shareholder is deemed to *control* another company if:


(i) Such company or shareholder, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other company; or


(ii) Such company or shareholder controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other company. No company is deemed to own or control another company by virtue of its ownership or control of shares in a fiduciary capacity.


(6) *Credit union* means a financial institution subject to examination by the National Credit Union Administration Board.


(7) *Home State* means, with respect to a national bank, the State in which the main office of the national bank is located and, with respect to a State bank, the State by which the bank is chartered.


(8) *Interim national bank or interim Federal savings association* means a national bank or Federal savings association that does not operate independently but exists solely as a vehicle to accomplish a business combination.


(9) *Nonbank affiliate* of a national bank means any company (other than a bank or Federal savings association) that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the national bank.


(10) *Other combination* means:


(i) Any merger or consolidation between a national bank or a Federal savings association and one or more depository institutions or State trust companies, in which the resulting institution is not a national bank or Federal savings association;


(ii) In the case of a Federal stock savings association, any merger or consolidation with a credit union in which the resulting institution is a credit union;


(iii) The transfer by a national bank or a Federal savings association of any deposit liabilities to another insured depository institution, a credit union or any other institution; or


(iv) The acquisition by a national bank or a Federal savings association of all, or substantially all, of the assets, or the assumption of all or substantially all of the liabilities, of any company other than a depository institution.


(11) *Savings association* and *State savings association* have the meaning set forth in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(b).


(12) *State trust company* means a trust company organized under State law that is not engaged in the business of receiving deposits, other than trust funds.


(e) *Policy and related filing requirements*—(1) *Factors*—(i) *In general.* When the OCC evaluates any application for a business combination, the OCC considers the following factors:


(A) The capital level of any resulting national bank or Federal savings association;


(B) The conformity of the transaction to applicable law, regulation, and supervisory policies;


(C) The purpose of the transaction;


(D) The impact of the transaction on safety and soundness of the national bank or Federal savings association; and


(E) The effect of the transaction on the national bank's or Federal savings association's shareholders (or members in the case of a mutual savings association), depositors, other creditors, and customers.


(ii) *Bank Merger Act.* When the OCC evaluates an application for a business combination under the Bank Merger Act, the OCC also considers the following factors:


(A) *Competition.* (*1*) The OCC considers the effect of a proposed business combination on competition. The filer must provide a competitive analysis of the transaction, including a definition of the relevant geographic market or markets. A filer may refer to the Comptroller's Licensing Manual for procedures to expedite its competitive analysis.


(*2*) The OCC will deny an application for a business combination if the combination would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. The OCC also will deny any proposed business combination whose effect in any section of the United States may be substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the probable effects of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community clearly outweigh the anticompetitive effects of the transaction. For purposes of weighing against anticompetitive effects, a business combination may have favorable effects in meeting the convenience and needs of the community if the depository institution being acquired has limited long-term prospects, or if the resulting national bank or Federal savings association will provide significantly improved, additional, or less costly services to the community.


(B) *Financial and managerial resources and future prospects.* The OCC considers the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the existing or proposed institutions.


(C) *Convenience and needs of community.* The OCC considers the probable effects of the business combination on the convenience and needs of the community served. The filer must describe these effects in its application, including any planned office closings or reductions in services following the business combination and the likely impact on the community. The OCC also considers additional relevant factors, including the resulting national bank's or Federal savings association's ability and plans to provide expanded or less costly services to the community.


(D) *Money laundering.* The OCC considers the effectiveness of any insured depository institution involved in the business combination in combating money laundering activities, including in overseas branches.


(E) *Financial stability.* The OCC considers the risk to the stability of the United States banking and financial system.


(F) *Deposit concentration limit.* The OCC will not approve a transaction that would violate the deposit concentration limit in 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(13) for interstate merger transactions, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(13)(C)(i).


(iii) *Community Reinvestment Act*—(A) *In General.* The OCC takes into account the filer's Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) record of performance in considering an application for a business combination. The OCC's conclusion of whether the CRA performance is or is not consistent with approval of an application is considered in conjunction with the other factors of this section.


(B) *Interstate mergers under 12 U.S.C. 1831u.* The OCC considers the CRA record of performance of the filer and its resulting bank affiliates and the filer's record of compliance with applicable State community reinvestment laws when required by 12 U.S.C. 1831u(b)(3).


(C) *CRA Sunshine.* A filer must:


(*1*) Disclose whether it has entered into and disclosed a covered agreement, as defined in 12 CFR 35.2, in accordance with 12 CFR 35.6 and 35.7; and


(*2*) Provide summaries of, or documents relating to, all substantive discussions with respect to the development of the content of a covered agreement disclosed in (e)(1)(iii)(C)(*1*) that include the names of participants, dates, and synopsis of the discussions.


(iv) *Interstate mergers under 12 U.S.C. 1831u.* The OCC considers the standards and requirements contained in 12 U.S.C. 1831u for interstate merger transactions between insured banks, when applicable.


(2) *Acquisition and retention of branches.* A filer must disclose the location of any branch it will acquire and retain in a business combination, including approved but unopened branches. The OCC considers the acquisition and retention of a branch under the standards set out in § 5.30 or § 5.31, as applicable, but it does not require a separate application.


(3) *Subsidiaries.* (i) A filer must identify any subsidiary, financial subsidiary investment, bank service company investment, service corporation investment, or other equity investment to be acquired in a business combination and state the activities of each subsidiary or other company in which the filer would be acquiring an investment. The OCC does not require a separate application or notice under §§ 5.34, 5.35, 5.36, 5.38, 5.39, 5.58, and 5.59.


(ii) A national bank filer proposing to acquire, through a business combination, a subsidiary, financial subsidiary investment, bank service company investment, service corporation investment, or other equity investment of any entity other than a national bank must provide the same information and analysis of the subsidiary's activities, or of the investment, that would be required if the filer were establishing the subsidiary, or making such investment, pursuant to §§ 5.34, 5.35, 5.36, or 5.39.


(iii) A Federal savings association filer proposing to acquire, through a business combination, a subsidiary, bank service company investment, service corporation investment, or other equity investment of any entity other than a Federal savings association must provide the same information and analysis of the subsidiary's activities, or of the investment, that would be required if the filer were establishing the subsidiary, or making such investment, pursuant to §§ 5.35, 5.38, 5.58, or 5.59.


(4) *Interim national bank or interim Federal savings association*—(i) *Application.* A filer for a business combination that plans to use an interim national bank or interim Federal savings association to accomplish the transaction must file an application to organize an interim national bank or interim Federal savings association as part of the application for the related business combination.


(ii) *Conditional approval.* The OCC grants conditional preliminary approval to form an interim national bank or interim Federal savings association when it acknowledges receipt of the application for the related business combination.


(iii) *Corporate status.* An interim national bank or interim Federal savings association becomes a legal entity and may enter into legally valid agreements when it has filed, and the OCC has accepted, the interim national bank's duly executed articles of association and organization certificate or the Federal savings association's charter and bylaws. OCC acceptance occurs:


(A) On the date the OCC advises the interim national bank that its articles of association and organization certificate are acceptable or advises the interim Federal savings association that its charter and bylaws are acceptable; or


(B) On the date the interim national bank files articles of association and an organization certificate that conform to the form for those documents provided by the OCC in the Comptroller's Licensing Manual or the date the interim Federal savings association files a charter and bylaws that conform to the requirements set out in this part 5.


(iv) *Other corporate procedures.* A filer should consult the Comptroller's Licensing Manual to determine what other information is necessary to complete the chartering of the interim national bank as a national bank or the interim Federal savings association as a Federal savings association.


(5) *Nonconforming assets.* (i) A filer must identify any nonconforming activities and assets, including nonconforming subsidiaries, of other institutions involved in the business combination that will not be disposed of or discontinued prior to consummation of the transaction. The OCC generally requires a national bank or Federal savings association to divest or conform nonconforming assets, or discontinue nonconforming activities, within a reasonable time following the business combination.


(ii) Any resulting Federal savings association must conform to the requirements of sections 5(c) and 10(m) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464(c) and 1467a(m)) within the time period prescribed by the OCC.


(6) *Fiduciary powers.* (i) A filer must state whether the resulting national bank or Federal savings association intends to exercise fiduciary powers pursuant to § 5.26(b).


(ii) If a filer intends to exercise fiduciary powers after the combination and requires OCC approval for such powers, the filer must include the information required under § 5.26(e)(2).


(7) *Expiration of approval.* Approval of a business combination, and conditional approval to form an interim national bank or interim Federal savings association, if applicable, expires if the business combination is not consummated within six months after the date of OCC approval, unless the OCC grants an extension of time.


(8) *Adequacy of disclosure.* (i) A filer must inform shareholders of all material aspects of a business combination and must comply with any applicable requirements of the Federal securities laws and securities regulations of the OCC. Accordingly, a filer must ensure that all proxy and information statements prepared in connection with a business combination do not contain any untrue or misleading statement of a material fact, or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.


(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association filer with one or more classes of securities subject to the registration provisions of section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78*l*(b) or 78*l*(g), must file preliminary proxy material or information statements for review with the Director, Bank Advisory, OCC, Washington, DC 20219. Any other filer must submit the proxy materials or information statements it uses in connection with the combination to the appropriate OCC licensing office no later than when the materials are sent to the shareholders.


(f) *Exceptions to rules of general applicability*—(1) *National bank or Federal savings association filer*—(i) *In general.* Sections 5.8, 5.10, and 5.11 do not apply to this section. However, if the OCC concludes that an application presents significant or novel policy, supervisory, or legal issues, the OCC may determine that some or all provisions in §§ 5.8, 5.10 and 5.11 apply.


(ii) *Statutory notice.* If an application is subject to the Bank Merger Act or to another statute that requires notice to the public, a national bank or Federal savings association filer must follow the public notice requirements contained in 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(3) or the other statute and §§ 5.8(b) through 5.8(e), 5.10, and 5.11.


(2) *Interim national bank or interim Federal savings association.* Sections 5.8, 5.10, and 5.11 do not apply to an application to organize an interim national bank or interim Federal savings association. However, if the OCC concludes that an application presents significant or novel policy, supervisory, or legal issues, the OCC may determine that any or all parts of §§ 5.8, 5.10, and 5.11 apply. The OCC treats an application to organize an interim national bank or interim Federal savings association as part of the related application to engage in a business combination and does not require a separate public notice and public comment process.


(3) *State bank, or State savings association, State trust company, or credit union as resulting institution.* Sections 5.7 through 5.13 do not apply to transactions covered by paragraphs (g)(7) through (g)(9) of this section.


(g) *Provisions governing consolidations and mergers with different types of entities*—(1) *Consolidations and mergers under 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a of a national bank with other national banks and State banks as defined in 12 U.S.C. 215b(1) resulting in a national bank.* A national bank entering into a consolidation or merger authorized pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a, respectively, is subject to the approval procedures and requirements with respect to treatment of dissenting shareholders set forth in those provisions.


(2) *Interstate consolidations and mergers under 12 U.S.C. 215a-1 resulting in a national bank.* (i) With the approval of the OCC, an insured national bank may consolidate or merge with an insured out-of-State bank, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1831u(g)(8), with the national bank as the resulting institution.


(ii) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures set out in paragraph (h) of this section, the resulting national bank entering into the consolidation or merger must comply with the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a, as applicable.


(iii) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks under paragraph (h)(1)(i), any national bank that will not be the resulting bank in a consolidation or merger pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 215a-1 must comply with the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a, as applicable.


(iv) *Corporate existence.* The corporate existence of each bank participating in a consolidation or merger continues in the resulting national bank, and all the rights, franchises, property, appointments, liabilities, and other interests of the participating bank are transferred to the resulting national bank, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 215(b), (e), and (f) or 12 U.S.C. 215a(a), (e), and (f), as applicable.


(3) *Consolidations and mergers of a national bank with Federal savings associations under 12 U.S.C. 215c resulting in a national bank.* (i) With the approval of the OCC, any national bank and any Federal savings association may consolidate or merge with a national bank as the resulting institution by complying with the following procedures:


(A) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures set out in paragraph (h) of this section, a national bank entering into the consolidation or merger must follow the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a, respectively, as if the Federal savings association were a national bank.


(B)(*1*) A Federal savings association entering into the consolidation or merger must comply with the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section and follow the procedures set out in paragraph (o) of this section.


(*2*) For purposes of this paragraph (g)(3), a combination in which a national bank acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the liabilities, of a Federal savings association will be treated as a consolidation for the Federal savings association.


(ii)(A) Unless the national bank has elected to follow the procedures set out in paragraph (h) of this section, national bank shareholders who dissent from a plan to consolidate may receive in cash the value of their national bank shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 215 as if the Federal savings association were a national bank.


(B) Unless the Federal savings association has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State savings associations pursuant to paragraph (o)(1)(i)(A) of this section, Federal savings association shareholders who dissent from a plan to consolidate or merge may receive in cash the value of their Federal savings association shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a as if the Federal savings association were a national bank.


(C) Unless the national bank or Federal savings association has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks or State savings associations, respectively, pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i) or (o)(1)(i)(A) of this section, respectively, the OCC will conduct an appraisal or reappraisal of the value of a national bank or Federal savings association held by dissenting shareholders in accordance with the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 215 or 215a, as applicable, except that the costs and expenses of any appraisal or reappraisal may be apportioned and assessed by the Comptroller as he or she may deem equitable against all or some of the parties. In making this determination the Comptroller will consider whether any party has acted arbitrarily or not in good faith in respect to the rights provided by this paragraph.


(iii) The consolidation or merger agreement must address the effect upon, and the terms of the assumption of, any liquidation account of any participating institution by the resulting institution.


(4) *Mergers of a national bank with its nonbank affiliates under 12 U.S.C. 215a-3 resulting in a national bank.* (i) With the approval of the OCC, a national bank may merge with one or more of its nonbank affiliates, with the national bank as the resulting institution, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, provided that the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized allows the nonbank affiliate to engage in such mergers. If the national bank is an insured bank, the transaction is also subject to approval by the FDIC under the Bank Merger Act, 12 U.S.C. 1828(c).


(ii) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures set out in paragraph (h) of this section, a national bank entering into the merger must follow the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 215a as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank, except as otherwise provided herein.


(iii) A nonbank affiliate entering into the merger must follow the procedures for such mergers set out in the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.


(iv) The rights of dissenting shareholders and appraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in the nonbank affiliate entering into the merger must be determined in the manner prescribed by the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.


(v) The corporate existence of each institution participating in the merger continues in the resulting national bank, and all the rights, franchises, property, appointments, liabilities, and other interests of the participating institutions are transferred to the resulting national bank, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 215a(a), (e), and (f) in the same manner and to the same extent as in a merger between a national bank and a State bank under 12 U.S.C. 215a(a), as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank.


(5) *Mergers of an uninsured national bank with its nonbank affiliates under 12 U.S.C. 215a-3 resulting in a nonbank affiliate.* (i) With the approval of the OCC, a national bank that is not an insured bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(h) may merge with one or more of its nonbank affiliates, with the nonbank affiliate as the resulting entity, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, provided that the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized allows the nonbank affiliate to engage in such mergers.


(ii) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, a national bank entering into the merger must follow the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 214a, as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank, except as otherwise provided in this section.


(iii) A nonbank affiliate entering into the merger must follow the procedures for such mergers set out in the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.


(iv)(A) National bank shareholders who dissent from an approved plan to merge may receive in cash the value of their national bank shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank. The OCC may conduct an appraisal or reappraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in a national bank involved in the merger if all parties agree that the determination is final and binding on each party and agree on how the total expenses of the OCC in making the appraisal will be divided among the parties and paid to the OCC.


(B) The rights of dissenting shareholders and appraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in the nonbank affiliate involved in the merger must be determined in the manner prescribed by the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the nonbank affiliate is organized.


(v) The corporate existence of each entity participating in the merger continues in the resulting nonbank affiliate, and all the rights, franchises, property, appointments, liabilities, and other interests of the participating national bank are transferred to the resulting nonbank affiliate as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 214b, in the same manner and to the same extent as in a merger between a national bank and a State bank under 12 U.S.C. 214a, as if the nonbank affiliate were a State bank.


(6) *Consolidations and mergers of a Federal savings association with other Federal savings associations, national banks, State banks, State savings banks, State savings associations, State trust companies, or credit unions resulting in a Federal savings association.* (i) With the approval of the OCC, a Federal savings association may consolidate or merge with another Federal savings association, a national bank, a State bank, a State savings association, a State trust company, or a credit union with the Federal savings association as the resulting institution by complying with the following procedures:


(A)(*1*) The filer Federal savings association must comply with the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section and follow the procedures set out in paragraph (o) of this section.


(*2*) For purposes of this paragraph (g)(6), a combination in which a Federal savings association acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the liabilities, of another other participating institution will be treated as a consolidation for the acquiring Federal savings association and as a consolidation by a Federal savings association whose assets are acquired, if any.


(B)(*1*) Unless it has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, a national bank entering into a merger or consolidation with a Federal savings association when the resulting institution will be a Federal savings association must comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a and 12 U.S.C. 214c as if the Federal savings association were a State bank. However, for these purposes the references in 12 U.S.C. 214c to “law of the State in which such national banking association is located” and “any State authority” mean “laws and regulations governing Federal savings associations” and “Office of the Comptroller of the Currency” respectively.


(*2*) Unless the national bank has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, national bank shareholders who dissent from a plan to merge or consolidate may receive in cash the value of their national bank shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a as if the Federal savings association were a State bank. The OCC will conduct an appraisal or reappraisal of the value of the national bank shares held by dissenting shareholders in accordance with the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 214a, except that the costs and expenses of any appraisal or reappraisal may be apportioned and assessed by the Comptroller as he or she may deem equitable against all or some of the parties. In making this determination the Comptroller will consider whether any party has acted arbitrarily or not in good faith in respect to the rights provided by this paragraph.


(C)(*1*) A Federal savings association entering into a merger or consolidation with another Federal savings association when the resulting institution will be the other Federal savings association must comply with the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section and the procedures of paragraph (o) of this section.


(*2*) Unless the Federal savings association has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State savings associations under paragraph (o)(1)(i)(A), Federal savings association shareholders who dissent from a plan to merge or consolidate may receive in cash the value of their Federal savings association shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a as if the other Federal savings association were a State bank. The OCC will conduct an appraisal or reappraisal of the value of the Federal savings association shares held by dissenting shareholders in accordance with the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 214a, except that the costs and expenses of any appraisal or reappraisal may be apportioned and assessed by the Comptroller as he or she may deem equitable against all or some of the parties. In making this determination the Comptroller will consider whether any party has acted arbitrarily or not in good faith in respect to the rights provided by this paragraph.


(*3*) Unless the Federal savings association has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State savings associations under paragraph (o)(1)(i)(A), the plan of merger or consolidation must provide the manner of disposing of the shares of the resulting Federal savings association not taken by the dissenting shareholders of the Federal savings association.


(D)(*1*) A State bank, State savings association, State trust company, or credit union entering into a consolidation or merger with a Federal savings association when the resulting institution will be a Federal savings association must follow the procedures for such consolidations or mergers set out in the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the State bank, State savings association, State trust company, or credit union is organized.


(*2*) The rights of dissenting shareholders and appraisal of dissenters' shares of stock in the State bank, State savings association, or State trust company, entering into the consolidation or merger will be determined in the manner prescribed by the law of the State or other jurisdiction under which the State bank, State savings association, or State trust company is organized.


(ii) The consolidation or merger agreement must address the effect upon, and the terms of the assumption of, any liquidation account of any participating institution by the resulting institution.


(7) *Consolidations and mergers under 12 U.S.C. 214a of a national bank with State banks resulting in a State bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 214(a)*—(i) *In general.* Prior OCC approval is not required for the merger or consolidation of a national bank with a State bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 214(a). Termination of a national bank's existence and status as a national banking association is automatic, and its charter cancelled, upon completion of the statutory and regulatory requirements for engaging in the consolidation or merger and consummation of the consolidation or merger.


(ii) *Procedures.* A national bank desiring to merge or consolidate with a State bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 214(a) when the resulting institution will be a State bank must comply with the requirements and follow the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 214a and 214c and must provide notice to the OCC under paragraph (k) of this section.


(iii) *Dissenters' rights and appraisal procedures.* National bank shareholders who dissent from a plan to merge or consolidate may receive in cash the value of their national bank shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a. The OCC conducts an appraisal or reappraisal of the value of the national bank shares held by dissenting shareholders as provided for in 12 U.S.C. 214a.


(iv) *Liquidation account.* The consolidation or merger agreement must address the effect upon, and the terms of the assumption of, any liquidation account of any participating institution by the resulting institution.


(8) *Interstate consolidations and mergers between an insured national bank and insured State banks resulting in a State bank*—(i) *In general.* Prior OCC approval is not required for the merger or consolidation of an insured national bank with an insured out-of-State State bank, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1831u(g)(8), with the State bank as the resulting institution, that has been approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the State bank. Termination of a national bank's existence and status as a national banking association is automatic, and its charter cancelled, upon completion of the statutory and regulatory requirements for engaging in the consolidation or merger and consummation of the consolidation or merger.


(ii) *Procedures.* Unless it has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State banks under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, the national bank entering into the consolidation or merger must comply with the procedures of 12 U.S.C. 214a, as applicable.


(iii) *Notice.* The national bank must provide a notice to the OCC under paragraph (k) of this section.


(9) *Consolidations and mergers of a Federal savings association with State banks, State savings banks, State savings associations, State trust companies, or credit unions resulting in a State bank, State savings bank, State savings association, State trust company, or credit union*—(i) *Policy.* Prior OCC approval is not required for the merger or consolidation of a Federal savings association with a State bank, State savings bank, State savings association, State trust company, or credit union when the resulting institution will be a State institution or credit union. Termination of a national bank's or Federal savings association's existence and status as a national banking association or Federal savings association is automatic, and its charter cancelled, upon completion of the statutory and regulatory requirements for engaging in the consolidation or merger and consummation of the consolidation or merger.


(ii) *Procedures.* (A) A Federal savings association desiring to merge or consolidate with a State bank, State savings bank, State savings association, State trust company, or credit union when the resulting institution will be a State institution or credit union must comply with the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section and the procedures of paragraph (o) of this section and must provide notice to the OCC under paragraph (k) of this section.


(B) For purposes of this paragraph (g)(9), a combination in which a State bank, State savings bank, State savings association, State trust company, or credit union acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the liabilities, of a Federal savings association must be treated as a consolidation by the Federal savings association.


(iii) *Dissenters' rights and appraisal procedures.* (A) Unless the Federal savings association has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State savings associations under paragraph (o)(1)(i)(A), Federal savings association shareholders who dissent from a plan to merge or consolidate may receive in cash the value of their Federal savings association shares if they comply with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 214a as if the Federal savings association were a national bank. The OCC conducts an appraisal or reappraisal of the value of the Federal savings association shares held by dissenting shareholders only if all parties agree that the determination will be final and binding. The parties also must agree on how the total expenses of the OCC in making the appraisal will be divided among the parties and paid to the OCC.


(B) Unless the Federal savings association has elected to follow the procedures applicable to State savings associations under paragraph (o)(1)(i)(A), the plan of merger or consolidation must provide the manner of disposing of the shares of the resulting State institution not taken by the dissenting shareholders of the Federal savings association.


(iv) *Liquidation account.* The consolidation or merger agreement must address the effect upon, and the terms of the assumption of, any liquidation account of any participating institution by the resulting institution.


(h) *Procedural requirements for national bank combinations*—(1) *Permissible elections.* A national bank participating in a combination pursuant to paragraph (g)(2), (g)(3), (g)(4), (g)(5), (g)(6), or (g)(8) of this section may elect to follow with respect to the combination:


(i) The procedures applicable to a State bank chartered by the State where the national bank's main office is located; or


(ii) Paragraph (p) of this section, if applicable.


(2) *Rules of Construction.* For purposes of paragraph (h)(1) of this section:


(i) Any references to a State agency in the applicable State procedures should be read as referring to the OCC; and


(ii) Unless otherwise specified in Federal law, all filings required by the applicable State procedures must be made to the OCC.


(i) [Reserved]

(j) [Reserved]


(k) *Exit notice to OCC*—(1) *Notice required.* As provided in paragraphs (g)(7)(ii), (g)(8)(iii), and (g)(9)(ii) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association engaging in a consolidation or merger in which it is not the filer and the resulting institution must file a notice rather than an application to the appropriate OCC licensing office advising of its intention.


(2) *Timing of notice.* The national bank or Federal savings association must submit the notice at the time the application to merge or consolidate is filed with the responsible agency under the Bank Merger Act, 12 U.S.C. 1828(c), or if there is no such filing then no later than 30 days prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation.


(3) *Content of notice.* The notice must include the following:


(i)(A) A short description of the material features of the transaction, the identity of the acquiring institution, the identity of the State or Federal regulator to whom the application was made, and the date of the application; or


(B) A copy of a filing made with another Federal or State regulatory agency seeking approval from that agency for the transaction under the Bank Merger Act or other applicable statute;


(ii) The planned consummation date for the transaction;


(iii) Information to demonstrate compliance by the national bank or Federal savings association with applicable requirements to engage in the transactions (*e.g.,* board approval or shareholder or accountholder requirements); and


(iv) If the national bank or Federal savings association submitting the notice maintains a liquidation account established pursuant to part 192 of this chapter, the notice must state that the resulting institution will assume such liquidation account.


(4) *Termination of status.* The national bank or Federal savings association must advise the OCC when the transaction is about to be consummated. Termination of a national bank's or Federal savings association's existence and status as a national banking association or Federal savings association is automatic, and its charter cancelled, upon completion of the statutory and regulatory requirements and consummation of the consolidation or merger. When the national bank or Federal savings association files the notice under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, the OCC provides instructions to the national bank or Federal savings association for terminating its status as a national bank or Federal savings association, including surrendering its charter to the OCC immediately after consummation of the transaction.


(5) *Expiration.* If the action contemplated by the notice is not completed within six months after the OCC's receipt of the notice, a new notice must be submitted to the OCC, unless the OCC grants an extension of time.


(l) *Mergers and consolidations; transfer of assets and liabilities to the resulting institution.* (1) In any consolidation or merger in which the resulting institution is a national bank or Federal savings association, on the effective date of the merger or consolidation, all assets and property (real, personal and mixed, tangible and intangible, choses in action, rights, and credits) then owned by each participating institution or which would inure to any of them, immediately by operation of law and without any conveyance, transfer, or further action, become the property of the resulting national bank or Federal savings association. The resulting national bank or Federal savings association is deemed to be a continuation of the entity of each participating institution, and will succeed to such rights and obligations of each participating institution and the duties and liabilities connected therewith.


(2) The authority in paragraph (l)(1) of this section is in addition to any authority granted by applicable statutes for specific transactions and is subject to the National Bank Act, the Home Owners' Loan Act, and other applicable statutes.


(m) *Certification of combination; effective date.* (1) When a national bank or Federal savings association is the filer and will be the resulting entity in a consolidation or merger, after receiving approval from the OCC, it must complete any remaining steps needed to complete the transaction, provide the OCC with a certification that all other required regulatory or shareholder approvals have been obtained, and inform the OCC of the planned consummation date.


(2) When the transaction is consummated, the filer must notify the OCC of the consummation date. The OCC will issue a letter certifying that the combination was effective on the date specified in the filer's notice.


(n) *Authority for and certain limits on business combinations and other transactions by Federal savings associations.* (1) Federal savings associations may enter into business combinations only in accordance with this section, the Bank Merger Act, and sections 5(d)(3)(A) and 10(s) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464(d)(3)(A) and 1467a(s)).


(2) A Federal savings association may consolidate or merge with another depository institution, a State trust company or a credit union, may engage in another business combination listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section, or may engage in any other combination listed in paragraph (d)(10), provided that:


(i) The combination is in compliance with, and receives all approvals required under, any applicable statutes and regulations;


(ii) Any resulting Federal savings association meets the requirements for insurance of accounts; and


(iii) A consolidation or merger involving a mutual savings association or the transfer of all or substantially all of the deposits of a mutual savings association must result in a mutually held depository institution that is insured by the FDIC, unless:


(A) The transaction is approved under part 192 governing mutual to stock conversions;


(B) The transaction involves a mutual holding company reorganization under 12 U.S.C. 1467a(o) or a similar transaction under State law; or


(C) The transaction is part of a voluntary liquidation for which the OCC has provided non-objection under § 5.48.


(3) Where the resulting institution is a Federal mutual savings association, the OCC may approve a temporary increase in the number of directors of the resulting institution provided that the association submits a plan for bringing the board of directors into compliance with the requirements of § 5.21(e) within a reasonable period of time.


(4)(i) The Federal savings associations described in paragraph (n)(4)(ii) of this section below must provide affected accountholders with a notice of a proposed account transfer and an option of retaining the account in the transferring Federal savings association. The notice must allow affected accountholders at least 30 days to consider whether to retain their accounts in the transferring Federal savings association.


(ii) The following savings associations must provide the notices:


(A) A Federal mutual savings association transferring account liabilities to an institution the accounts of which are not insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund or the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund; and


(B) Any Federal mutual savings association transferring account liabilities to a stock form depository institution.


(o) *Procedural requirements for Federal savings association approval of combinations*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Permissible elections.* A Federal savings association participating in a combination may elect to follow the applicable procedures with respect to the combination:


(A) The procedures applicable to a State savings association chartered by the State where the Federal savings association's home office is located: or


(B) The standard procedures provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Rules of Construction.* For purposes of paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section:


(A) Any references to a State agency in the applicable State procedures should be read as referring to the OCC; and


(B) Unless otherwise specified in Federal law, all filings required by the applicable State procedures must be made to the OCC.


(2) *Standard procedures*—(i) *Board approval.* Before a Federal savings association files a notice or application for any consolidation or merger, the combination and combination agreement must be approved by majority vote of the entire board of each constituent Federal savings association in the case of Federal stock savings associations or a two-thirds vote of the entire board of each constituent Federal savings association in the case of Federal mutual savings associations.


(ii) *Shareholder vote*—(A) *General rule.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (o)(2)(ii), an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of any constituent Federal stock savings association is required for approval of a consolidation or merger. If any class of shares is entitled to vote as a class pursuant to § 5.22(g)(4), an affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of each voting class and two-thirds of the total voting shares is required. The required vote must be taken at a meeting of the savings association.


(B) *General exception.* Stockholders of the resulting Federal stock savings association need not authorize a consolidation or merger if the transaction meets the requirements of paragraph (p) of this section.


(C) *Exceptions for certain combinations involving an interim association.* Stockholders of a Federal stock savings association need not authorize by a two-thirds affirmative vote consolidations or mergers involving an interim Federal savings association or interim State savings association when the resulting Federal stock savings association is acquired pursuant to the regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at 12 CFR 238.15(e) (relating to the creation of a savings and loan holding company by a savings association). In those cases, an affirmative vote of 50 percent of the shares of the outstanding voting stock of the Federal stock savings association plus one affirmative vote is required. If any class of shares is entitled to vote as a class pursuant to the charter provisions in § 5.22(g)(4), an affirmative vote of 50 percent of the shares of each voting class plus one affirmative vote is required. The required votes must be taken at a meeting of the association.


(3) *Change of name or home office.* If the name of the resulting Federal savings association or the location of the home office of the resulting Federal savings association will change as a result of the business combination, the resulting Federal savings association must amend its charter accordingly.


(4) *Mutual member vote.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the OCC may require that a consolidation, merger or other business combination be submitted to the voting members of any mutual savings association participating in the proposed transaction at duly called meetings and that the transaction, to be effective, must be approved by such voting members.


(p) *Exception to voting requirements.* Shareholders of a resulting national bank or Federal stock savings association need not authorize a consolidation or merger if:


(1) Either:


(i) The transaction does not involve an interim bank or an interim savings association; or


(ii) The transaction involves an interim bank or an interim savings association and the existing shareholders of the national bank or Federal stock savings association will directly hold the shares of the resulting national bank or Federal stock savings association;


(2) The national bank's articles of association or the Federal stock savings association's charter, as applicable, is not changed;


(3) Each share of stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the consolidation or merger is to be an identical outstanding share or a treasury share of the resulting national bank or Federal stock savings association after such effective date; and


(4) Either:


(i) No shares of voting stock of the resulting national bank or Federal stock savings association and no securities convertible into such stock are to be issued or delivered under the plan of combination; or


(ii) The authorized unissued shares or the treasury shares of voting stock of the resulting national bank or Federal stock savings association to be issued or delivered under the plan of merger or consolidation, plus those initially issuable upon conversion of any securities to be issued or delivered under such plan, do not exceed 20 percent of the total shares of voting stock of such national bank or Federal stock savings association outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the consolidation or merger.



---

[N] [85 FR 80448, Dec. 11, 2020; 86 FR 1255, Jan. 8, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 78218, Sept. 25, 2024]




