# ยง 930.20   Establishment and membership.

(a) There is hereby established a Cherry Industry Administrative Board, the membership of which shall be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The number of Board members may vary, depending upon the production levels of the districts. All but one of these members shall be qualified growers and handlers selected pursuant to this part, each of whom shall have an alternate having the same qualifications as the member for whom the person is an alternate. One member of the Board shall be a public member who, along with his or her alternate, shall be elected by the Board from the general public. 


(b) District representation on the Board shall be based upon the previous three-year average production in the district and shall be established as follows: 


(1) Up to and including 10 million pounds shall have 1 member; 


(2) Greater than 10 and up to and including 40 million pounds shall have 2 members; 


(3) Greater than 40 and up to and including 80 million pounds shall have 3 members; and 


(4) Greater than 80 million pounds shall have 4 members; and 


(5) Allocation of the seats in each district shall be as follows but subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section: 


(c) Upon the adoption of this part, the production area shall be divided into the following described subdivisions for purposes of this section:


(d) The ratio of grower to handler representation in districts with three members shall alternate each time the term of a Board member from the representative group having two seats expires. During the initial period of the order, the ratio shall be as designated in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(e) Board members from districts with one seat may be either grower or handler members and will be nominated and elected as outlined in ยง 930.23. 


(f) If the 3-year average production of a district changes so that a different number of seats should be allocated to the district, then the Board will be reestablished by the Secretary, and such seats will be filled according to the applicable provisions of this part. Each district's 3-year average production shall be recalculated annually as soon as possible after each season's final production figures are known. 


(g) In order to achieve a fair and balanced representation on the Board, and to prevent any one sales constituency from gaining control of the Board, not more than one Board member may be from, or affiliated with, a single sales constituency in those districts having more than one seat on the Board; *Provided,* That this prohibition shall not apply in a district where such a conflict cannot be avoided. There is no prohibition on the number of Board members from differing districts that may be elected from a single sales constituency which may have operations in more than one district. However, as provided in ยง 930.23, a handler or grower may only nominate Board members and vote in one district.


(h) Subject to the approval of the Secretary, the Board shall at its first meeting and annually thereafter elect from among any of its members a chairperson and a vice-chairperson and may elect other appropriate officers.


(i) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish rules and regulation's necessary and incidental to the administration of this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 49942, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 51713, Aug. 8, 2002; 75 FR 33677, June 15, 2010]




