# § 26.55   How is DBE participation counted toward goals?

(a) When a DBE participates in a contract, you count only the value of the work performed by the DBE toward DBE goals.


(1) Count the entire amount of that portion of a construction contract (or other contract not covered by paragraph (a)(2) of this section) that is performed by the DBE's own forces. Include the cost of supplies and materials obtained by the DBE for the work of the contract, including supplies purchased or equipment leased by the DBE (except supplies and equipment the DBE subcontractor purchases or leases from the prime contractor or its affiliate).


(2) Count the entire amount of fees or commissions charged by a DBE firm for providing a bona fide service, such as professional, technical, consultant, or managerial services, or for providing bonds or insurance specifically required for the performance of a DOT-assisted contract, toward DBE goals, provided you determine the fee to be reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services.


(3) When a DBE subcontracts part of the work of its contract to another firm, the value of the subcontracted work may be counted toward DBE goals only if the DBE's subcontractor is itself a DBE. Work that a DBE subcontracts to a non-DBE firm does not count toward DBE goals.


(b) When a DBE performs as a participant in a joint venture, count a portion of the total dollar value of the contract equal to the distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the contract that the DBE performs with its own forces toward DBE goals.


(c) Count expenditures to a DBE contractor toward DBE goals only if the DBE is performing a commercially useful function on that contract.


(1) A DBE performs a commercially useful function when it is responsible for execution of the work of the contract and is carrying out its responsibilities by performing, managing, and supervising the work involved. To perform a commercially useful function, the DBE must also be responsible, with respect to materials and supplies used on the contract, for negotiating price, determining quality and quantity, ordering the material, and installing (where applicable) and paying for the material itself. To determine whether a DBE is performing a commercially useful function, you must evaluate the amount of work subcontracted, industry practices, whether the amount the firm is to be paid under the contract is commensurate with the work it is performing and the DBE credit claimed for its performance of the work, and other relevant factors.


(2) A DBE does not perform a commercially useful function if its role is limited to that of an extra participant in a transaction, contract, or project through which funds are passed to obtain the appearance of DBE participation. In determining whether a DBE is such an extra participant, you must examine similar transactions, particularly those in which DBEs do not participate.


(3) If a DBE does not perform or exercise responsibility for at least 30 percent of the total cost of its contract with its own work force, or the DBE subcontracts a greater portion of the work of a contract than would be expected within normal industry practice for the type of work involved, you must presume that it is not performing a commercially useful function.


(4) When a DBE is presumed not to be performing a commercially useful function as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the DBE may present evidence to rebut this presumption. You may determine that the firm is performing a commercially useful function given the type of work involved and normal industry practices.


(5) Your decisions on commercially useful function matters are subject to review by the concerned operating administration, but are not administratively appealable to DOT.


(d) Use the following factors in determining whether a DBE trucking company is performing a commercially useful function:


(1) The DBE must be responsible for the management and supervision of the entire trucking operation for which it is responsible on a particular contract, and there cannot be a contrived arrangement for the purpose of meeting DBE goals.


(2) The DBE must itself own and operate at least one fully licensed, insured, and operational truck used on the contract.


(3) The DBE receives credit for the total value of the transportation services it provides on the contract using trucks it owns, insures, and operates using drivers it employs.


(4) The DBE may lease trucks from another DBE firm, including an owner-operator who is certified as a DBE. The DBE who leases trucks from another DBE receives credit for the total value of the transportation services the lessee DBE provides on the contract.


(5) The DBE may also lease trucks from a non-DBE firm, including from an owner-operator. The DBE that leases trucks equipped with drivers from a non-DBE is entitled to credit for the total value of transportation services provided by non-DBE leased trucks equipped with drivers not to exceed the value of transportation services on the contract provided by DBE-owned trucks or leased trucks with DBE employee drivers. Additional participation by non-DBE owned trucks equipped with drivers receives credit only for the fee or commission it receives as a result of the lease arrangement. If a recipient chooses this approach, it must obtain written consent from the appropriate DOT operating administration.


(6) The DBE may lease trucks without drivers from a non-DBE truck leasing company. If the DBE leases trucks from a non-DBE truck leasing company and uses its own employees as drivers, it is entitled to credit for the total value of these hauling services.


(7) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a lease must indicate that the DBE has exclusive use of and control over the truck. This does not preclude the leased truck from working for others during the term of the lease with the consent of the DBE, so long as the lease gives the DBE absolute priority for use of the leased truck. Leased trucks must display the name and identification number of the DBE.


(e) Count expenditures with DBEs for materials or supplies toward DBE goals as provided in the following:


(1)(i) If the materials or supplies are obtained from a DBE manufacturer, count 100 percent of the cost of the materials or supplies.


(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (e)(1), a manufacturer is a firm that owns (or leases) and operates a factory or establishment that produces, on the premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment required under the contract and of the general character described by the specifications. Manufacturing includes blending or modifying raw materials or assembling components to create the product to meet contract specifications. When a DBE makes minor modifications to the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment, the DBE is not a manufacturer. Minor modifications are additional changes to a manufactured product that are small in scope and add minimal value to the final product.


(2)(i) If the materials or supplies are purchased from a DBE regular dealer, count 60 percent of the cost of the materials or supplies (including transportation costs).


(ii) For purposes of this section, a regular dealer is a firm that owns (or leases) and operates, a store, warehouse, or other establishment in which the materials, supplies, articles or equipment of the general character described by the specifications and required under the contract are bought, kept in sufficient quantities, and regularly sold or leased to the public in the usual course of business.


(iii) Items kept and regularly sold by the DBE are of the “general character” when they share the same material characteristics and application as the items specified by the contract.


(iv) You must establish a system to determine that a DBE regular dealer per paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, over a reasonable period of time, keeps sufficient quantities and regularly sells the items in question. This system must also ensure that a regular dealer of bulk items per (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section owns/leases and operates distribution equipment for the products it sells. This requirement may be administered through questionnaires, inventory records reviews, or other methods to determine whether each DBE supplier has the demonstrated capacity to perform a commercially useful function (CUF) as a regular dealer prior to its participation. The system you implement must be maintained and used to identify all DBE suppliers with capacity to be eligible for 60 percent credit, contingent upon the performance of a CUF. This requirement is a programmatic safeguard apart from that described in § 26.53(c)(1).


(A) To be a regular dealer, the firm must be an established business that engages, as its principal business and under its own name, in the purchase and sale or lease of the products in question. A DBE supplier performs a CUF as a regular dealer and receives credit for 60 percent of the cost of materials or supplies (including transportation cost) when all, or at least 51 percent of, the items under a purchase order or subcontract are provided from the DBE's inventory, and when necessary, any minor quantities delivered from and by other sources are of the general character as those provided from the DBE's inventory.


(B) A DBE may be a regular dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products, steel, concrete or concrete products, gravel, stone, or asphalt without owning and operating a place of business as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section if the firm both owns and operates distribution equipment used to deliver the products. Any supplementing of regular dealers' own distribution equipment must be by a long-term operating lease and not on an ad hoc or contract-by-contract basis.


(C) A DBE supplier of items that are not typically stocked due to their unique characteristics (*e.g.,* limited shelf life or items ordered to specification) should be considered in the same manner as a regular dealer of bulk items per paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. If the DBE supplier of these items does not own or lease distribution equipment, as descried above, it is not a regular dealer.


(D) Packagers, brokers, manufacturers' representatives, or other persons who arrange, facilitate, or expedite transactions are not regular dealers within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(3) If the materials or supplies are purchased from a DBE distributor that neither maintains sufficient inventory nor uses its own distribution equipment for the products in question, count 40 percent of the cost of materials or supplies (including transportation costs). A DBE distributor is an established business that engages in the regular sale or lease of the items specified by the contract. A DBE distributor assumes responsibility for the items it purchases once they leave the point of origin (*e.g.,* a manufacturer's facility), making it liable for any loss or damage not covered by the carrier's insurance. A DBE distributor performs a CUF when it demonstrates ownership of the items in question and assumes all risk for loss or damage during transportation, evidenced by the terms of the purchase order or a bill of lading (BOL) from a third party, indicating Free on Board (FOB) at the point of origin or similar terms that transfer responsibility of the items in question to the DBE distributor. If these conditions are met, DBE distributors may receive 40 percent for drop-shipped items. Terms that transfer liability to the distributor at the delivery destination (*e.g.,* FOB destination), or deliveries made or arranged by the manufacturer or another seller do not satisfy this requirement.


(4) With respect to materials or supplies purchased from a DBE that is neither a manufacturer, a regular dealer, nor a distributor, count the entire amount of fees or commissions charged that you deem to be reasonable, including transportation charges for the delivery of materials or supplies. Do not count any portion of the cost of the materials and supplies themselves.


(5) You must determine the amount of credit awarded to a firm for the provisions of materials and supplies (*e.g.,* whether a firm is acting as a regular dealer, distributor, or a transaction facilitator) on a contract-by-contract basis.


(f) If a firm is not currently certified as a DBE in accordance with the standards of subpart D of this part at the time of the execution of the contract, do not count the firm's participation toward any DBE goals, except as provided for in § 26.87(j)).


(g) Do not count the dollar value of work performed under a contract with a firm after it has ceased to be certified toward your overall goal.


(h) Do not count the participation of a DBE subcontractor toward a contractor's final compliance with its DBE obligations on a contract until the contractor has paid the DBE the amount being counted.



---

[N] [64 FR 5126, Feb. 2, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 68951, Nov. 15, 2000; 68 FR 35554, June 16, 2003; 79 FR 59595, Oct. 2, 2014; 89 FR 24968, Apr. 9, 2024; 89 FR 55089, July 3, 2024]




