# § 903.23   What is the process by which HUD reviews, approves, or disapproves an Annual Plan?

(a) *Review of the plan.* When the PHA submits its Annual Plan to HUD, including any significant amendment or modification to the plan, HUD reviews the plan to determine whether: 


(1) The plan provides all the information that is required to be included in the plan; 


(2) The plan is consistent with the information and data available to HUD; 


(3) The plan is consistent with any applicable Consolidated Plan for the jurisdiction in which the PHA is located; and 


(4) The plan is not prohibited or inconsistent with the 1937 Act or any other applicable Federal law. 


(b) *Scope of HUD review.* HUD's review of the Annual Plan (and any significant amendments or modifications to the plan) will be limited to the information required by § 903.7(b), (g), (h), and (o), and any other element of the PHA's Annual Plan that is challenged. 


(c) *Disapproval of the plan.* (1) HUD may disapprove a PHA plan, in its entirety or with respect to any part, or disapprove any significant amendment or modification to the plan, only if HUD determines that the plan, or one of its components or elements, or any significant amendment or modification to the plan: 


(i) Does not provide all the information that is required to be included in the plan; 


(ii) Is not consistent with the information and data available to HUD; 


(iii) Is not consistent with any applicable Consolidated Plan for the jurisdiction in which the PHA is located; or 


(iv) Is not consistent with applicable Federal laws and regulations. 


(2) Not later than 75 days after the date on which the PHA submits its plan or significant amendment or modification to the plan, HUD will issue written notice to the PHA if the plan or a significant amendment or modification has been disapproved. The notice that HUD issues to the PHA must state with specificity the reasons for the disapproval. HUD may not state as a reason for disapproval the lack of time to review the plan. 


(3) If HUD fails to issue the notice of disapproval on or before the 75th day after the date on which the PHA submits its plan or significant amendment or modification to the plan, HUD shall be considered to have determined that all elements or components of the plan required to be submitted and that were submitted, and to be reviewed by HUD were in compliance with applicable requirements and the plan has been approved. 


(4) The provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section do not apply to troubled PHAs. The plan of a troubled PHA must be approved or disapproved by HUD through written notice. 


(d) *Designation of due date as submission date for first plan submissions.* For purposes of the 75-day period described in paragraph (b) of this section, the first 5-year and Annual Plans submitted by a PHA will be considered to have been submitted no earlier than the due date as provided in § 903.5. 


(e) *Public availability of the approved plan.* Once a PHA's plan has been approved, a PHA must make the approved plan and the required attachments and documents related to the plan, available for review and inspection, at the principal office of the PHA during normal business hours. 


(f) *Recordkeeping.* PHAs must maintain records reflecting actions to affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151, 5.152, and 903.7(o) of this title.





---

[N] [65 FR 81222, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003; 80 FR 42371, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47911, Aug. 7, 2020; 86 FR 30793, June 10, 2021]




