# ยง 772.5   Security maintenance.

(a) *General.* Borrowers are responsible for maintaining the collateral that is serving as security for their Minor Program loan in accordance with their lien instruments, security agreement and promissory note. 


(b) *Security inspection.* The Agency will inspect real estate that is security for a Minor Program loan at least once every 3 years, and chattel security at least annually. More frequent security inspections may be made as determined necessary by the Agency. Borrowers will allow representatives of the Agency, or any agency of the U.S. Government, in accordance with statutes and regulations, such access to the security property as the agency determines is necessary to document compliance with the requirements of this section. 


(c) *Violations.* If the Agency determines that the borrower has failed to adequately maintain security, made unapproved dispositions of security, or otherwise has placed the repayment of the Minor Program loan in jeopardy, the Agency will: 


(1) For chattel security, service the account according to part 765 of this chapter. If any normal income security as defined in that subpart secures a Minor Program loan, the reporting, approval and release provisions in that subpart shall apply. 


(2) For real estate security for AMP loans, contact the Regional Office of General Counsel for advice on the appropriate servicing including liquidation if warranted. 


(3) For real estate security for IMP loans, service the account according to part 765 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [68 FR 69949, Dec. 16, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 65541, Nov. 1, 2013]




