# ยง 700.145   Cost distribution.

(a) *General.* (1) Grantees, the Secretary concerned, and participants shall all contribute to the cost of providing supportive services according to section 802(i)(A)(i). Grantees must contribute at least 50 percent of program cost, participants must contribute fees that in total are at least 10 percent of program cost, and the Secretary concerned will provide funds in an amount not to exceed 40 percent. 


(2) Section 802(i)(1)(B)(ii) creates a cost-sharing provision between grantee and the Secretary concerned if total participant fees collected over a year are less than 10 percent of total program cost. This provision is subject to availability of appropriated grant funds. If funds are not available, the grantee must assume the funding shortfall. 


(b) *Prohibition on substitution of funds and maintenance of existing supportive services.* Grantees shall maintain existing funding for and provision of supportive services prior to the application date, as set forth in section 802(i)(1)(D). The grantee shall ensure that the activities provided to the project under a CHSP grant will be in addition to, and not in substitution for, these previously existing services. The value of these services do not qualify as matching funds. Such services must be maintained either for the time the participant remains in CHSP, or for the duration of CHSP grant. The grantee shall certify compliance with this paragraph to the Secretary concerned. 


(c) *Eligible matching funds.* (1) All sources of matching funds must be directly related to the types of supportive services prescribed by the PAC or used for administration of CHSP. 


(2) Matching funds may include: 


(i) Cash (which may include funds from Federal, State and local governments, third party contributions, available payments authorized under Medicaid for specific individuals in CHSP, Community Development Block Grants or Community Services Block Grants, Older American Act programs or excess residual funds with the approval of the Secretary concerned), 


(ii) The imputed dollar value of other agency or third party-provided direct services or staff who will work with or provide services to program participants; these services must be justified in the application to assure that they are the new or expanded services of CHSP necessary to keep the program participants independent. If services are provided by the state, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor, IHA, PHA, or for-profit or not-for-profit owner, any salary paid to staff from governmental sources to carry out the program of the grantee and any funds paid to residents employed by the Program (other than from amounts under a contract under section 700.155) is allowable match. 


(iii) In-kind items (these are limited to 10 percent of the 50 percent matching amount), such as the current market value of donated common or office space, utility costs, furniture, material, supplies, equipment and food used in direct provision of services. The applicant must provide an explanation for the estimated donated value of any item listed. 


(iv) The value of services performed by volunteers to CHSP, at the rate of $5.00 an hour. 


(d) *Limitation.* (1) The following are not eligible for use as matching funds: 


(i) PHA operating funds; 


(ii) CHSP funds; 


(iii) Section 8 funds other than excess residual receipts; 


(iv) Funds under section 14 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, unless used for service coordination or case management; and 


(v) Comprehensive grant funds unless used for service coordination or case management; 


(2) Local government contributions are limited by section 802(i)(1)(E). 


(e) *Annual review of match.* The Secretary concerned will review the infusion of matching funds annually, as part of the program or budget review. If there are insufficient matching funds available to meet program requirements at any point after grant start-up, or at any time during the term of the grant (*i.e.,* if matching funds from sources other than program participant fees drop below 50 percent of total supportive services cost), the Secretary concerned may decrease the federal grant share of supportive services funds accordingly. 




