# § 61.346   Standards: Individual drain systems.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator shall meet the following standards for each individual drain system in which waste is placed in accordance with § 61.342(c)(1)(ii) of this subpart:


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain on each drain system opening a cover and closed-vent system that routes all organic vapors vented from the drain system to a control device.


(i) The cover shall meet the following requirements:


(A) The cover and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports) shall be designed to operate with no detactable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h) of this subpart.


(B) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a lid that is gasketed and latched) at all times that waste is in the drain system except when it is necessary to use the opening for waste sampling or removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.


(C) If the cover and closed-vent system operate such that the individual drain system is maintained at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure, then paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section does not apply to any opening that meets all of the following conditions: 


(*1*) The purpose of the opening is to provide dilution air to reduce the explosion hazard; 


(*2*) The opening is designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, as determined initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h); and 


(*3*) The pressure is monitored continuously to ensure that the pressure in the individual drain system remains below atmospheric pressure. 


(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with § 61.349 of this subpart.


(2) Each cover seal, access hatch, and all other openings shall be checked by visual inspection initially and quarterly thereafter to ensure that no cracks or gaps occur and that access hatches and other openings are closed and gasketed properly.


(3) Except as provided in § 61.350 of this subpart, when a broken seal or gasket or other problem is identified, or when detectable emissions are measured, first efforts at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after identification.


(b) As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator may elect to comply with the following requirements:


(1) Each drain shall be equipped with water seal controls or a tightly sealed cap or plug.


(2) Each junction box shall be equipped with a cover and may have a vent pipe. The vent pipe shall be at least 90 cm (3 ft) in length and shall not exceed 10.2 cm (4 in) in diameter.


(i) Junction box covers shall have a tight seal around the edge and shall be kept in place at all times, except during inspection and maintenance.


(ii) One of the following methods shall be used to control emissions from the junction box vent pipe to the atmosphere:


(A) Equip the junction box with a system to prevent the flow of organic vapors from the junction box vent pipe to the atmosphere during normal operation. An example of such a system includes use of water seal controls on the junction box. A flow indicator shall be installed, operated, and maintained on each junction box vent pipe to ensure that organic vapors are not vented from the junction box to the atmosphere during normal operation.


(B) Connect the junction box vent pipe to a closed-vent system and control device in accordance with § 61.349 of this subpart.


(3) Each sewer line shall not be open to the atmosphere and shall be covered or enclosed in a manner so as to have no visual gaps or cracks in joints, seals, or other emission interfaces.


(4) Equipment installed in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section shall be inspected as follows:


(i) Each drain using water seal controls shall be checked by visual or physical inspection initially and thereafter quarterly for indications of low water levels or other conditions that would reduce the effectiveness of water seal controls.


(ii) Each drain using a tightly sealed cap or plug shall be visually inspected initially and thereafter quarterly to ensure caps or plugs are in place and properly installed. 


(iii) Each junction box shall be visually inspected initially and thereafter quarterly to ensure that the cover is in place and to ensure that the cover has a tight seal around the edge.


(iv) The unburied portion of each sewer line shall be visually inspected initially and thereafter quarterly for indication of cracks, gaps, or other problems that could result in benzene emissions.


(5) Except as provided in § 61.350 of this subpart, when a broken seal, gap, crack or other problem is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after identification.



---

[N] [55 FR 8346, Mar. 7, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 37231, Sept. 10, 1990; 58 FR 3097, Jan. 7, 1993]




