# ยง 594.3   Definitions.

*Empowerment zone* means an area designated by HUD as an Empowerment Zone under 26 U.S.C. 1391-1393. 


*Enterprise community* means an area designated by HUD as an Enterprise Community under 26 U.S.C. 1391-1393. 


*Grantee* means an eligible neighborhood organization that executes a grant agreement with HUD under this part. 


*Low- and moderate-income persons* means families and individuals whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary of HUD in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(20). 


*Neighborhood development funding organization* means: 


(1) A depository institution, the accounts of which are insured pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.,* or the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1751 *et seq.,* and any subsidiary (as such term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(w)) thereof; 


(2) A depository institution holding company and any subsidiary (as such term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(w)) thereof; or 


(3) A company at least 75 percent of the common stock of which is owned by one or more insured depository institutions or depository institution holding companies. 


*Neighborhood development organization* means the same as the term is defined in ยง 594.5. 


*Rural neighborhoods.* In small cities with under 10,000 in population and in rural areas, a neighborhood area can be the same unit as the unit of general local government. 


*Unit of general local government* means a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; an urban county; the Federated States of Micronesia; the Marshall Islands; or a general purpose political subdivision thereof. 



---

[N] [60 FR 16359, Mar. 29, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 5211, Feb. 9, 1996]




