# § 100.24   Federal election activity (52 U.S.C. 30101(20)).

(a) As used in this section, and in part 300 of this chapter,


(1) *In connection with an election in which a candidate for Federal office appears on the ballot* means:


(i) The period of time beginning on the date of the earliest filing deadline for access to the primary election ballot for Federal candidates as determined by State law, or in those States that do not conduct primaries, on January 1 of each even-numbered year and ending on the date of the general election, up to and including the date of any general runoff.


(ii) The period beginning on the date on which the date of a special election in which a candidate for Federal office appears on the ballot is set and ending on the date of the special election.


(2) *Voter registration activity.*

(i) Voter registration activity means:


(A) Encouraging or urging potential voters to register to vote, whether by mail (including direct mail), e-mail, in person, by telephone (including pre-recorded telephone calls, phone banks and messaging such as SMS and MMS), or by any other means;


(B) Preparing and distributing information about registration and voting;


(C) Distributing voter registration forms or instructions to potential voters;


(D) Answering questions about how to complete or file a voter registration form, or assisting potential voters in completing or filing such forms;


(E) Submitting or delivering a completed voter registration form on behalf of a potential voter;


(F) Offering or arranging to transport, or actually transporting potential voters to a board of elections or county clerk's office for them to fill out voter registration forms; or


(G) Any other activity that assists potential voters to register to vote.


(ii) Activity is not voter registration activity solely because it includes a brief exhortation to register to vote, so long as the exhortation is incidental to a communication, activity, or event. Examples of brief exhortations incidental to a communication, activity, or event include:


(A) A mailer praises the public service record of mayoral candidate X and/or discusses his campaign platform. The mailer concludes by reminding recipients, “Don't forget to register to vote for X by October 1st.”


(B) A phone call for a State party fundraiser gives listeners information about the event, solicits donations, and concludes by reminding listeners, “Don't forget to register to vote.”


(3) *Get-out-the-vote activity.*

(i) Get-out-the-vote activity means:


(A) Encouraging or urging potential voters to vote, whether by mail (including direct mail), e-mail, in person, by telephone (including pre-recorded telephone calls, phone banks and messaging such as SMS and MMS), or by any other means;


(B) Informing potential voters, whether by mail (including direct mail), e-mail, in person, by telephone (including pre-recorded telephone calls, phone banks and messaging such as SMS and MMS), or by any other means, about:


(*1*) Times when polling places are open;


(*2*) The location of particular polling places; or


(*3*) Early voting or voting by absentee ballot;


(C) Offering or arranging to transport, or actually transporting, potential voters to the polls; or


(D) Any other activity that assists potential voters to vote.


(ii) Activity is not get-out-the-vote activity solely because it includes a brief exhortation to vote, so long as the exhortation is incidental to a communication, activity, or event. Examples of brief exhortations incidental to a communication, activity, or event include:


(A) A mailer praises the public service record of mayoral candidate X and/or discusses his campaign platform. The mailer concludes by reminding recipients, “Vote for X on November 4th.”


(B) A phone call for a State party fundraiser gives listeners information about the event, solicits donations, and concludes by reminding listeners, “Don't forget to vote on November 4th.”


(4) *Voter identification* means acquiring information about potential voters, including, but not limited to, obtaining voter lists and creating or enhancing voter lists by verifying or adding information about the voters' likelihood of voting in an upcoming election or their likelihood of voting for specific candidates. The date a voter list is acquired shall govern whether a State, district, or local party committee has obtained a voter list within the meaning of this section.


(b) As used in part 300 of this chapter, *Federal election activity* means any of the activities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.


(1) Voter registration activity during the period that begins on the date that is 120 calendar days before the date that a regularly scheduled Federal election is held and ends on the date of the election. For purposes of voter registration activity, the term “election” does not include any special election. 


(2) The following activities conducted in connection with an election in which one or more candidates for Federal office appears on the ballot (regardless of whether one or more candidates for State or local office also appears on the ballot): 


(i) Voter identification. 


(ii) Generic campaign activity, as defined in 11 CFR 100.25. 


(iii) Get-out-the-vote activity. 


(3) A public communication that refers to a clearly identified candidate for Federal office, regardless of whether a candidate for State or local election is also mentioned or identified, and that promotes or supports, or attacks or opposes any candidate for Federal office. This paragraph applies whether or not the communication expressly advocates a vote for or against a Federal candidate. 


(4) Services provided during any month by an employee of a State, district, or local committee of a political party who spends more than 25 percent of that individual's compensated time during that month on activities in connection with a Federal election. 


(c) *Exceptions. Federal election activity* does not include any amount expended or disbursed by a State, district, or local committee of a political party for any of the following activities: 


(1) A public communication that refers solely to one or more clearly identified candidates for State or local office and that does not promote or support, or attack or oppose a clearly identified candidate for Federal office; provided, however, that such a public communication shall be considered a Federal election activity if it constitutes voter registration activity, generic campaign activity, get-out-the-vote activity, or voter identification. 


(2) A contribution to a candidate for State or local office, provided the contribution is not designated to pay for voter registration activity, voter identification, generic campaign activity, get-out-the-vote activity, a public communication, or employee services as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(3) The costs of a State, district, or local political convention, meeting or conference. 


(4) The costs of grassroots campaign materials, including buttons, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures, posters, and yard signs, that name or depict only candidates for State or local office. 


(5) Voter identification activity that is conducted solely in connection with a non-Federal election held on a date on which no Federal election is held, and which is not used in a subsequent election in which a Federal candidate appears on the ballot.


(6) Get-out-the-vote activity that is conducted solely in connection with a non-Federal election held on a date on which no Federal election is held, provided that any communications made as part of such activity refer exclusively to:


(i) Non-Federal candidates participating in the non-Federal election, if the non-Federal candidates are not also Federal candidates;


(ii) Ballot referenda or initiatives scheduled for the date of the non-Federal election; or


(iii) The date, polling hours, and locations of the non-Federal election.


(7) *De minimis* costs associated with the following:


(i) On the website or internet application of a party committee or an association of State or local candidates, posting a hyperlink to a state or local election board's website or internet application containing information on voting or registering to vote;


(ii) On the website or internet application of a party committee or an association of State or local candidates, enabling visitors to download a voter registration form or absentee ballot application;


(iii) On the website or internet application of a party committee or an association of State or local candidates, posting information about voting dates and/or polling locations and hours of operation; or


(iv) Placing voter registration forms or absentee ballot applications obtained from the board of elections at the office of a party committee or an association of State or local candidates.



---

[N] [67 FR 49110, July 29, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 8932, Feb. 22, 2006; 71 FR 14360, Mar. 22, 2006; 75 FR 55267, Sept. 10, 2010; 89 FR 214, Jan. 2, 2024]




