# ยง 261.411   Emergency procedures for facilities generating or accumulating 6000 kg or less of hazardous secondary material.

A generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility that generates or accumulates 6000 kg or less of hazardous secondary material must comply with the following requirements:


(a) At all times there must be at least one employee either on the premises or on call (*i.e.,* available to respond to an emergency by reaching the facility within a short period of time) with the responsibility for coordinating all emergency response measures specified in paragraph (d) of this section. This employee is the emergency coordinator.


(b) The generator or intermediate or reclamation facility must post the following information next to the telephone:


(1) The name and telephone number of the emergency coordinator;


(2) Location of fire extinguishers and spill control material, and, if present, fire alarm; and


(3) The telephone number of the fire department, unless the facility has a direct alarm.


(c) The generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility must ensure that all employees are thoroughly familiar with proper waste handling and emergency procedures, relevant to their responsibilities during normal facility operations and emergencies;




(d) The emergency coordinator or his designee must respond to any emergencies that arise. The applicable responses are as follows:


(1) In the event of a fire, call the fire department or attempt to extinguish it using a fire extinguisher;


(2) In the event of a spill, contain the flow of hazardous waste to the extent possible, and as soon as is practicable, clean up the hazardous waste and any contaminated materials or soil;


(3) In the event of a fire, explosion, or other release which could threaten human health outside the facility or when the generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility has knowledge that a spill has reached surface water, the generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility operating under a verified recycler variance under ยง 260.31(d) of this subchapter must immediately notify the National Response Center (using their 24-hour toll free number 800/424-8802). The report must include the following information:




(i) The name, address, and U.S. EPA Identification Number of the facility;


(ii) Date, time, and type of incident (*e.g.,* spill or fire);


(iii) Quantity and type of hazardous waste involved in the incident;


(iv) Extent of injuries, if any; and


(v) Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered materials, if any.





---

[N] [80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54103, Aug. 9, 2023]






