# § 17.3   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions contained in part 10 of this subchapter, and unless the context otherwise requires, in this part 17:


*Act* means the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543; 87 Stat. 884);


*Adequately covered* means, with respect to species listed pursuant to section 4 of the Act, that a proposed conservation plan has satisfied the permit issuance criteria under section 10(a)(2)(B) of the Act for the species covered by the plan, and, with respect to non-listed species, that a proposed conservation plan has satisfied the permit issuance criteria under section 10(a)(2)(B) of the Act that would apply if the non-listed species covered by the plan were listed. For the Service to cover a species under a conservation plan, it must be identified as a covered species on the section 10(a)(1)(B) permit.


*Alaskan Native* means a person defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1603(b) (85 Stat. 588)) as a citizen of the United States who is of one-fourth degree or more Alaska Indian (including Tsimshian Indians enrolled or not enrolled in the Metlaktla Indian Community), Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or combination thereof. The term includes any Native, as so defined, either or both of whose adoptive parents are not Natives. It also includes, in the absence of proof of a minimum blood quantum, any citizen of the United States who is regarded as an Alaska Native by the Native village or town of which he claims to be a member and whose father or mother is (or, if deceased, was) regarded as Native by any Native village or Native town. Any citizen enrolled by the Secretary pursuant to section 5 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act shall be conclusively presumed to be an Alaskan Native for purposes of this part;


*Applicant* means the person(s), as defined in the Act, who is named and identified on the application and, by signing the application, assumes the responsibility for implementing the terms of an issued permit. Other parties including, without limitations, affiliates, associates, subsidiaries, corporate families, and assigns of an applicant are not applicants or permittees unless, in accordance with applicable regulations, an application or permit has been amended to include them or unless a permit has been transferred consistent with § 13.25.


*Authentic native articles of handicrafts and clothing* means items made by an Indian, Aleut, or Eskimo that are composed wholly or in some significant respect of natural materials and are significantly altered from their natural form and are produced, decorated, or fashioned in the exercise of traditional native handicrafts without the use of pantographs, multiple carvers, or similar mass-copying devices. Improved methods of production utilizing modern implements such as sewing machines or modern techniques at a tannery registered pursuant to § 18.23(c) of this subchapter (in the case of marine mammals) may be used as long as no large-scale mass production industry results. Traditional native handicrafts include, but are not limited to, weaving, carving, stitching, sewing, lacing, beading, drawing, and painting. The formation of traditional native groups, such as cooperatives, is permitted as long as no large-scale mass production results; 


*Baseline condition* means population estimates and distribution or habitat characteristics across the enrolled property that currently sustains seasonal or permanent use by the covered species at the time a conservation benefit agreement is executed by the Service and the property owner, or by a programmatic permit holder and the property owner, under §§ 17.22(c) and 17.32(c) of this part, as applicable.


*Bred in captivity* or *captive-bred* refers to wildlife, including eggs, born or otherwise produced in captivity from parents that mated or otherwise transferred gametes in captivity, if reproduction is sexual, or from parents that were in captivity when development of the progeny began, if development is asexual.


*Captivity* means that living wildlife is held in a controlled environment that is intensively manipulated by man for the purpose of producing wildlife of the selected species, and that has boundaries designed to prevent animal, eggs or gametes of the selected species from entering or leaving the controlled environment. General characteristics of captivity may include but are not limited to artificial housing, waste removal, health care, protection from predators, and artificially supplied food.


*Changed circumstances* are changes in circumstances affecting a species or geographic area covered by a conservation plan that can reasonably be anticipated by the plan's developers and the Service for which responses can be identified in a conservation plan (e.g., the listing of new species, effects of climate change, or a fire or other natural catastrophic event in areas prone to those events).


*Conservation plan* means the plan required by section 10(a)(2)(A) of the ESA that an applicant must submit when applying for an incidental take permit. Conservation plans also are known as “habitat conservation plans” or “HCPs.”


*Conserved habitat areas* means areas explicitly designated for habitat restoration, acquisition, protection, or other conservation purposes under a conservation plan.


*Convention* means the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, TIAS 8249 (see part 23 of this chapter).


*Convention* means the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, TIAS 8249.


*Covered activity* means an action or series of actions that causes take of a covered species and for which take is authorized by a permit under § 17.22(b) and (c) or § 17.32(b) and (c), as applicable.


*Covered species* means any species that are included in a conservation plan or agreement and for which take is authorized through an incidental take or enhancement of survival permit.


(1) Covered species include species listed as endangered or threatened.


(2) Covered species may include species that are proposed or candidates for listing, at-risk species, or species that have other Federal protective status. An at-risk species is a non-listed species the status of which is declining and that is at risk of becoming a candidate for listing under the Act; at-risk species may include, but are not limited to, State-listed species, species identified by States as species of greatest conservation need, or species with State heritage ranks of G1 or G2.


(3) An incidental take or enhancement of survival permit need not include a listed species.


*Enhance the propagation or survival,* when used in reference to wildlife in captivity, includes but is not limited to the following activities when it can be shown that such activities would not be detrimental to the survival of wild or captive populations of the affected species:


(a) Provision of health care, management of populations by culling, contraception, euthanasia, grouping or handling of wildlife to control survivorship and reproduction, and similar normal practices of animal husbandry needed to maintain captive populations that are self-sustaining and that possess as much genetic vitality as possible;


(b) Accumulation and holding of living wildlife that is not immediately needed or suitable for propagative or scientific purposes, and the transfer of such wildlife between persons in order to relieve crowding or other problems hindering the propagation or survival of the captive population at the location from which the wildlife would be removed; and


(c) Exhibition of living wildlife in a manner designed to educate the public about the ecological role and conservation needs of the affected species.


*Endangered* means a species of wildlife listed in § 17.11 or a species of plant listed in § 17.12 and designated as endangered.


*Harass* in the definition of “take” in the Act means an intentional or negligent act or omission which creates the likelihood of injury to wildlife by annoying it to such an extent as to significantly disrupt normal behavioral patterns which include, but are not limited to, breeding, feeding, or sheltering. This definition, when applied to captive wildlife, does not include generally accepted:


(1) Animal husbandry practices that meet or exceed the minimum standards for facilities and care under the Animal Welfare Act,


(2) Breeding procedures, or


(3) Provisions of veterinary care for confining, tranquilizing, or anesthetizing, when such practices, procedures, or provisions are not likely to result in injury to the wildlife.


*Harm* in the definition of “take” in the Act means an act which actually kills or injures wildlife. Such act may include significant habitat modification or degradation where it actually kills or injures wildlife by significantly impairing essential behavioral patterns, including breeding, feeding or sheltering.


*Incidental taking* means any taking otherwise prohibited, if such taking is incidental to, and not the purpose of, the carrying out of an otherwise lawful activity.


*Industry or trade* in the definition of “commercial activity” in the Act means the actual or intended transfer of wildlife or plants from one person to another person in the pursuit of gain or profit;


*Native village or town* means any community, association, tribe, clan or group;


*Net conservation benefit* means the cumulative benefit provided through implementation of a conservation benefit agreement that is designed to improve the existing baseline condition of a covered species by reducing or eliminating threats, or otherwise improving the status of covered species, minus the adverse impacts to covered species from ongoing land or water use activities and conservation measures, so that the condition of the covered species or the amount or quality of its habitat is reasonably expected to be greater with implementation of the agreement than without it. If the Service determines that the species and habitat are already adequately managed to the benefit of the species, a net conservation benefit will be achieved if the property owner commits to continuing the species' management for a specified period of time, including addressing any likely future threats that are under the property owner's control, with the anticipation that the population will increase, habitat quality will improve, or both.


*Operating conservation program* means those conservation management activities which are expressly agreed upon and described in a conservation plan or its Implementing Agreement, if any, and which are to be undertaken for the affected species when implementing an approved conservation plan, including measures to respond to changed circumstances.


*Permit area* means the geographic area where the take permit applies. The permit area must be delineated in the permit and be included within a conservation plan or agreement.


*Permittee* means the named applicant who has been issued a permit and who assumes responsibility for implementing the permit. Other parties including, without limitation, affiliates, associates, subsidiaries, corporate families, and assigns of a permittee are not permittees unless the permit has been amended or transferred consistent with § 13.25.


*Plan area* means the geographic area where covered activities, including mitigation, described in the conservation plan associated with an incidental take permit may occur. The plan area must be identified in the conservation plan.


*Population* means a group of fish or wildlife in the same taxon below the subspecific level, in common spatial arrangement that interbreed when mature;


*Programmatic permit associated with a conservation benefit agreement* means an enhancement of survival permit issued under § 17.22(c) or § 17.32(c), with an accompanying conservation benefit agreement that allows at least one named permittee to extend the incidental take authorization to enrolled property owners who are capable of carrying out and agree to properly implement the conservation benefit agreement.


*Programmatic permit associated with a conservation plan* means an incidental take permit issued under § 17.22(b) or § 17.32(b), with an accompanying conservation plan that allows at least one named permittee to extend the incidental take authorization to participants who are capable of carrying out and agree to properly implement the conservation plan.


*Properly implemented conservation plan* means any conservation plan, Implementing Agreement and permit whose commitments and provisions have been or are being fully implemented by the permittee.


*Property owner,* with respect to conservation benefit agreements and plans outlined under § 17.22(b) and (c) and § 17.32(b) and (c), means a person or other entity with a property interest (including owners of rights to water or other natural resources) sufficient to carry out the proposed activities, subject to applicable State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations.


*Specimen* means any animal or plant, or any part, product, egg, seed or root of any animal or plant;


*Subsistence* means the use of endangered or threatened wildlife for food, clothing, shelter, heating, transportation and other uses necessary to maintain the life of the taker of the wildlife, or those who depend upon the taker to provide them with such subsistence, and includes selling any edible portions of such wildlife in native villages and towns in Alaska for native consumption within native villages and towns;


*Threatened* means a species of wildlife listed in § 17.11 or plant listed in § 17.12 and designated as threatened.


*Unforeseen circumstances* means changes in circumstances affecting a species or geographic area covered by a conservation plan or agreement that could not reasonably have been anticipated by plan or agreement developers and the Service at the time of the conservation plan's or agreement's negotiation and development, and that result in a substantial and adverse change in the status of the covered species.


*Wasteful manner* means any taking or method of taking which is likely to result in the killing or injury of endangered or threatened wildlife beyond those needed for subsistence purposes, or which results in the waste of a substantial portion of the wildlife, and includes without limitation the employment of a method of taking which is not likely to assure the capture or killing of the wildlife, or which is not immediately followed by a reasonable effort to retrieve the wildlife.



---

[N] [40 FR 44415, Sept. 26, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 28056, June 1, 1977; 44 FR 54006, Sept. 17, 1979; 46 FR 54750, Nov. 4, 1981; 47 FR 31387, July 20, 1982; 50 FR 39687, Sept. 30, 1985; 63 FR 8870, Feb. 23, 1998; 63 FR 48639, Sept. 11, 1998; 69 FR 24092, May 3, 2004; 71 FR 46870, Aug. 15, 2006; 89 FR 23938, Apr. 5, 2024; 89 FR 26094, Apr. 12, 2024]




