# ยง 8.100   Definitions.

*Authorized Classification Society* means a recognized classification society that has been delegated the authority to conduct certain functions and certifications on behalf of the Coast Guard.


*Class Rules* means the standards developed and published by a classification society regarding the design, construction and certification of commercial vessels.


*Classed* means that a vessel meets the classification society requirements that embody the technical rules, regulations, standards, guidelines and associated surveys and inspections covering the design, construction and through-life compliance of a ship's structure and essential engineering and electrical systems.


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the Coast Guard.


*Delegated Function* means a function related to Coast Guard commercial vessel inspection which has been delegated to a classification society. Delegated functions may include issuance of international convention certificates and participation in the Alternate Compliance Program under this part.


*Delegated Function Related to General Vessel Safety Assessment* means issuance of the SOLAS Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate or issuance of the SOLAS Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate.


*Exclusive Surveyor* means a person who is employed solely by a classification society and is authorized to conduct vessel surveys. Independent surveyors, hired on a case-by-case basis, or surveyors of another classification society are not considered exclusive surveyors for the performance of delegated functions on behalf of the Coast Guard.


*Gross Tons* means vessel tonnage measured in accordance with the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969. Vessels not measured by this convention must be measured in accordance with the method utilized by the flag state administration of that vessel.


*MARPOL 73/78* means the Protocol of 1978 relating to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, and includes the Convention which means the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, including Protocols I and II and Annexes I, II, and V thereto, including any modification or amendments to the Convention, Protocols or Annexes which have entered into force for the United States.


*Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI)* means any person from the civilian or military branch of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant and who, under the superintendence and direction of a Coast Guard District Commander, is in charge of an inspection zone for the performance of duties with respect to the inspection, enforcement, and administration of 46 U.S.C., Revised Statutes, and acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, and rules and regulations thereunder.


*Recognized Classification Society* means the American Bureau of Shipping or other classification society recognized by the Commandant under this part.


*SOLAS* means International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended.




