# ยง 302.35   State parent locator service.

The State plan shall provide as follows:


(a) *State PLS.* The IV-D agency shall maintain a State PLS to provide locate information to authorized persons for authorized purposes.


(1) *For IV-D cases and IV-D purposes by the IV-D agency.* The State PLS shall access the Federal PLS and all relevant sources of information and records available in the State, and in other States as appropriate, for locating custodial parents, noncustodial parents, and children for IV-D purposes.


(2) *For authorized non-IV-D individuals and purposes.* (i) The State PLS shall access and release information authorized to be disclosed under section 453(a)(2) and 453(j)(3) of the Act from the Federal PLS and, in accordance with State law, information from relevant in-State sources of information and records, as appropriate, for locating custodial parents, noncustodial parents, non-parent relatives, and children upon request of authorized individuals specified in paragraph (c) of this section, for authorized purposes specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) The State PLS shall not release information from the computerized support enforcement system required under part 307 of this chapter, IRS information, or financial institution data match information, nor shall the State PLS forward a non-IV-D request to another State IV-D agency.


(iii) The State PLS need not make subsequent location attempts if locate efforts fail to find the individual sought unless a new request is submitted.


(b) *Central State PLS requirement.* The IV-D program shall maintain a central State PLS to submit requests to the Federal PLS.


(c) *Authorized persons.* The State PLS shall accept requests for locate information only from the following authorized persons:


(1) Any State or local agency providing child and spousal support services under the State plan, and any Tribal IV-D agency providing child and spousal support services under a Tribal plan approved under 45 CFR part 309, provided the State and Tribe have in effect an intergovernmental agreement for the provision of Federal PLS services;


(2) A court that has authority to issue an order or to serve as the initiating court in an action to seek an order against a noncustodial parent for the support and maintenance of a child, or any agent of such court;


(3) The resident parent, legal guardian, attorney, or agent of a child who is not receiving assistance under title IV-A of the Act only if the individual:


(i) Attests that the request is being made to obtain information on, or to facilitate the discovery of, any individual in accordance with section 453(a)(2) of the Act for the purpose of establishing parentage, establishing, setting the amount of, modifying, or enforcing child support obligations;


(ii) Attests that any information obtained through the Federal or State PLS shall be used solely for these purposes and shall be otherwise treated as confidential;


(iii) Attests that the requestor is the resident parent, legal guardian, attorney, or agent of a child not receiving assistance under title IV-A; and


(iv) Pays the fee required for Federal PLS services under section 453(e)(2) of the Act and ยง 303.70(f)(2)(i) of this chapter, if the State does not pay the fee itself. The State may also charge a fee to cover its costs of processing the request, which must be as close to actual costs as possible, so as not to discourage requests to use the Federal PLS. If the State itself pays the fee for use of the Federal PLS or the State PLS in a non-IV-D case, Federal financial participation is not available in those expenditures.


(4) Authorized persons as defined in ยง 303.15 of this chapter in connection with parental kidnapping, child custody or visitation cases; or


(5) A State agency that is administering a program operated under a State plan under titles IV-B or IV-E of the Act.


(d) *Authorized purposes for requests and scope of information provided.* The State PLS shall obtain location information under this section only for the purpose specified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section.


(1) *To locate an individual with respect to a child in a IV-D, non-IV-D, IV-B, or IV-E case.* The State PLS shall locate individuals for the purpose of establishing parentage, or establishing, setting the amount of, modifying, or enforcing child support obligations or for determining who has or may have parental rights with respect to a child. For these purposes, only information in the Federal PLS or the State PLS may be provided. This information is limited to name, Social Security Number(s), most recent address, employer name and address, employer identification number, wages or other income from, and benefits of, employment, including rights to, or enrollment in, health care coverage, and asset or debt information.


(2) *To assist States in carrying out their responsibilities under title IV-D, IV-A, IV-B, and IV-E programs.* In addition to the information that may be released pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, State PLS information may be disclosed to State IV-D, IV-A, IV-B, and IV-E agencies for the purpose of assisting States to carry out their responsibilities to administer title IV-D, IV-A, IV-B, and IV-E programs, including information to locate an individual who is a child or a relative of a child in a IV-B or IV-E case. Information that may be disclosed about relatives of children involved in IV-B and IV-E cases is limited to name, Social Security Number(s), most recent address, employer name and address and employer identification number.


(3) *To locate an individual sought for the unlawful taking or restraint of a child or for child custody or visitation purposes.* The State PLS shall locate individuals for the purpose of enforcing a State law with respect to the unlawful taking or restraint of a child or for making or enforcing a child custody or visitation determination as defined in section 463(d)(1) of the Act. This information is limited to most recent address and place of employment of a parent or child.


(e) *Locate information subject to disclosure.* Subject to the requirements of this section and the privacy safeguards required under section 454(26) of the Act and the family violence indicators under section 307.11(f)(1)(x) of this part, the State PLS shall disclose the following information to authorized persons for authorized purposes,


(1) Federal PLS information described in sections 453 and 463 of the Act; and


(2) Information from in-state locate sources.



---

[N] [73 FR 56443, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 81906, Dec. 29, 2010]




