# § 360.7   Post-insolvency interest.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section establishes rules governing the calculation and distribution of post-insolvency interest to creditors with proven claims in all FDIC-administered receiverships established after June 13, 2002. 


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Equityholder.* The owner of an equity interest in a failed depository institution, whether such ownership is represented by stock, membership in a mutual association, or otherwise. 


(2) *Post-insolvency interest.* Interest calculated from the date the receivership is established on proven creditor claims in receiverships with surplus funds. 


(3) *Post-insolvency interest rate.* For any calendar quarter, the coupon equivalent yield of the average discount rate set on the three-month Treasury bill at the last auction held by the United States Treasury Department during the preceding calendar quarter, and adjusted each quarter thereafter. 


(4) *Principal amount.* The proven claim amount and any interest accrued thereon as of the date the receivership is established. 


(5) *Proven claim.* A claim that is allowed by a receiver or upon which a final non-appealable judgment has been entered in favor of a claimant against a receivership by a court with jurisdiction to adjudicate the claim. 


(c) *Post-insolvency interest distributions.* (1) Post-insolvency interest shall only be distributed following satisfaction by the receiver of the principal amount of all creditor claims. 


(2) The receiver shall distribute post-insolvency interest at the post-insolvency interest rate prior to making any distribution to equityholders. Post-insolvency interest distributions shall be made in the order of priority set forth in section 11(d)(11)(A) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(11)(A). 


(3) Post-insolvency interest distributions shall be made at such time as the receiver determines that such distributions are appropriate and only to the extent of funds available in the receivership estate. Post-insolvency interest shall be calculated on the outstanding balance of a proven claim, as reduced from time to time by any interim dividend distributions, from the date the receivership is established until the principal amount of a proven claim has been fully distributed but not thereafter. Post-insolvency interest shall be calculated on a contingent claim from the date such claim becomes proven. 


(4) Post-insolvency interest shall be determined using a simple interest method of calculation.



---

[N] [67 FR 34386, May 14, 2002]




