# ยง 1160.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part: 


(a) *Council* means the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities as defined in ยง 1160.2. 


(b) *Letter of Intent* means an agreement by the Council to provide an indemnity covering a future exhibition subject to compliance with all requirements at the date the indemnity is to be effective.


(c) *Lender* means the owner of an object.


(d) *Eligible item* means an object which qualifies for coverage under the Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act.


(e) *Exhibition* means a public display of an indemnified items(s) at one or more locations, as approved by the Council, presented by any person, nonprofit agency or institution, or Government, in the United States or elsewhere.


(f) *On Exhibition* means the period of time beginning on the date an indemnified item leaves the place designated by the lender and ending on the termination date.


(g) *Indemnity Agreement* means the contract between the Council and the indemnitee covering loss or damage to indemnified items under the authority of the Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act.


(h) *Indemnitee* means the party or parties to an indemnity agreement issued by the Council, to whom the promise of indemnification is made.


(i) *Participating institution(s)* means the location(s) where an exhibition indemnified under this part will be displayed.


(j) *Termination date* means the date thirty (30) calendar days after the date specified in the indemnity Certificate by which an indemnified item is to be returned to the place designated by the lender or the date on which the item is actually so returned, whichever date is earlier. (In museum terms this means wall-to-wall coverage.) After 11:59 p.m. on the termination date, the item is no longer covered by the indemnity agreement unless an extension has theretofore been requested by the indemnitee and granted in writing by the Council.




