# ยง 667.500   What procedures apply to the resolution of findings arising from audits, investigations, monitoring and oversight reviews?

(a) *Resolution of subrecipient-level findings.* (1) The Governor is responsible for resolving findings that arise from the State's monitoring reviews, investigations and audits (including OMB Circular A-133 audits) of subrecipients. 


(2) A State must utilize the audit resolution, debt collection and appeal procedures that it uses for other Federal grant programs. 


(3) If a State does not have such procedures, it must prescribe standards and procedures to be used for this grant program. 


(b) *Resolution of State and other direct recipient level findings.* (1) The Secretary is responsible for resolving findings that arise from Federal audits, monitoring reviews, investigations, incident reports, and recipient level OMB Circular A-133 audits. 


(2) The Secretary uses the DOL audit resolution process, consistent with the Single Audit Act of 1996 and OMB Circular A-133, and Grant Officer Resolution provisions of ยง 667.510, as appropriate. 


(3) A final determination issued by a Grant Officer under this process may be appealed to the DOL Office of Administrative Law Judges under the procedures at ยง 667.800. 


(c) *Resolution of nondiscrimination findings.* Findings arising from investigations or reviews conducted under nondiscrimination laws will be resolved in accordance with WIA section 188 and the Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIA section 188, codified at 29 CFR part 37. 




