# ยง 111.6   Procedures.

(a) *Recipients of payment.* The Secretary concerned makes TC payments to Service member dependents, former dependents, or court-appointed guardians as described by 10 U.S.C. 1059. If a recipient is incapable of handling his or her own affairs, payments may be made only to a court-appointed guardian.


(b) *Payments.* (1) Payments begin in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.


(2) Payments must continue for at least 12 months and no more than 36 months, as prescribed by the Secretary concerned. When the unserved portion of the Service member's obligated active duty service, as of the starting date of payment, is greater than 12 months and less than or equal to 36 months, payments continue for no less than the unserved portion.


(i) For enlisted Service members, obligated active duty service is the time remaining on their terms of enlistment.


(ii) For officers, obligated active duty service is indefinite unless an officer has a date of separation established. In that case, it is the time remaining until the date of separation.


(3) The amount of payment will be in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059. Partial month entitlements are pro-rated. If a recipient dies, arrears of payments are not paid.


(4) Payments will be stopped in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.


(i) Payments will end on the first day of the first month following the month in which the Secretary concerned notifies the recipient of such transitional compensation in writing that the payment of TC will stop.


(ii) Recipients are not required to repay amounts of TC received before the effective date payment is stopped, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section; however, TC may be recouped for erroneous payments or payments made based on false information provided.


(c) *Forfeiture provisions.* In addition to 10 U.S.C. 1059, the following requirements apply:


(1) The former spouse receiving TC must notify the Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS) within 30 days of remarriage or if the spouse or former spouse begins residing in the same household as the spouse or former spouse.


(2) If a Service member's dependent child is not living in the same household as the spouse or former spouse who forfeits TC, payments are made to each dependent child or his or her court-appointed guardian.


(3) In order to continue benefits, the spouse or former spouse must annually certify to DFAS that he or she is not remarried and is not cohabitating with the Service member separated for the abuse. DFAS will provide a form for recertification of benefits.


(d) *Coordination of benefits.* A spouse or former spouse may not concurrently receive TC payments and retired pay payments pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1059 and 1408(h), respectively. If a spouse or former spouse is eligible for both TC payments and retired pay payments, the spouse or former spouse chooses which of the two payments to receive. If the spouse or former spouse receives TC payments and later receives payments from a Service member's retired pay, any TC received concurrently with retired pay must be recouped.


(e) *Source of funds.* TC must be paid from operations and maintenance funds of the Department of the Service member.


(f) *Application of procedures.* An individual must initiate a request for TC through a Service-appointed representative. The Service-appointed representative:


(1) Collects data and validates the claim using DD Form 2698 (available at *http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2698.pdf*).


(2) Approves payment and forwards the application to DFAS unless otherwise submitted by the Secretary concerned in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.


(g) Commissary and exchange benefits. (1) A recipient of TC is entitled to use commissary and exchange stores while receiving payments.


(2) If a recipient entitled to use commissary and exchange stores is also entitled to use commissary and exchange stores under another provision of law, the entitlement is determined under the other provision of law and not paragraph (g)(1).


(h) *Medical benefits.* (1) The Secretary concerned will determine appropriate medical and dental care eligibility for TC recipients and affected dependents. At a minimum, an abused dependent who is receiving TC in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may receive medical and dental care, including mental health services, in facilities of the Uniformed Services or through the TRICARE program as outlined in 10 U.S.C. 1076, 1077, and 1079.


(2) Dental care may be provided on a space-available basis in facilities of the Military Services.


(3) Eligible dependents of a Service member who is retirement eligible, but who loses eligibility for retirement pay because of dependent-abuse misconduct, may receive medical and dental care in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1408(h).




