# ยง 3560.205   Rent and utility allowance changes.

(a) *General.* Borrowers must fully document that changes to rents and utility allowances are necessary to cover housing or utility costs allowed under the approved budget for the housing. Any changes must apply to all similar units in the housing project.


(b) *Agency approval.* Borrowers must submit a fully documented request to the Agency to effect any rent or utility allowance change.


(1) Borrowers must obtain written consent or approval from the Agency as specified in paragraph (e) of this section before implementing any changes in the rents or utility allowances.


(2) If a borrower implements an unauthorized rent or utility allowance charge, the Agency will require the borrower to roll back rents to the last authorized rent charge, and the borrower must reimburse tenants for any unauthorized rents collected.


(c) *Timing of request for changes.* Borrowers must submit rent and utility allowance change requests in conjunction with the annual budget submission as required under ยง 3560.303(d). The effective dates of any approved changes will coincide with the start of the housing project's fiscal year or the start of the season for seasonally occupied farm labor housing. However, the Agency will accept borrower requests for rent or utility allowance changes anytime during the year if a change is necessary to preserve the financial integrity of the housing complex and the financial distress is due to circumstances beyond the borrower's control.


(d) *Tenant notification.* Borrowers must notify tenants and solicit their comments to proposed rent or utility allowance change requests that are submitted to the Agency at the same time that the initial request is made to the Agency.


(1) Tenants will be given 20 calendar days to provide their comments to the Agency.


(2) Borrowers must deliver the proposed rent or utility allowance change request notice to each tenant and post at least one copy of the notice at the housing project site in a visible location frequented by tenants.




(e) *Approval.* If the Agency approves a rent or utility allowance increase request on which the comments were solicited, tenants or members receiving notice of a proposed rent or utility allowance change in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be notified of the rent or utility allowance change to be effective, at least 30 calendar days from the date of the notification.




(f) *Denial of change request.* The Agency may deny a rent or utility allowance increase request in the following circumstances.


(1) The Agency determines that the borrower did not provide sufficient information to justify operating costs.


(2) The borrower is out of compliance with Agency requirements including any corrective action requirements agreed to in a workout agreement developed according to subpart J of this part.


(3) Sufficient funds are being collected under existing rents to meet approved expenses.


(g) *Notice of denial.* If the rent change will not be approved as requested, the Agency will notify the borrower of the denial in accordance with ยง 3560.303(d). 



---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 87 FR 11282, Mar. 1, 2022]




