# § 301.51-1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Asian longhorned beetle.* The insect known as Asian longhorned beetle (*Anoplophora glabripennis*) in any stage of development.


*Certificate.* A document which is issued for a regulated article by an inspector or by a person operating under a compliance agreement, and which represents that such article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.51-5(a).


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between APHIS and a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles that are moved interstate, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed under this subpart.


*Infestation.* The presence of the Asian longhorned beetle in any life stage.


*Inspector.* Any employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or other individual authorized by the Administrator to enforce the provisions of this subpart.


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State.


*Limited permit.* A document in which an inspector affirms that the regulated article not eligible for a certificate is eligible for interstate movement only to a specified destination and in accordance with conditions specified on the permit.


*Moved (movement, move).* Shipped, offered for shipment, received for transportation, transported, carried, or allowed to be moved, shipped, transported, or carried.


*Person.* Any association, company, corporation, firm, individual, joint stock company, partnership, society, or any other legal entity.


*Quarantined area.* Any State, or any portion of a State, listed in accordance with § 301.51-2 or otherwise designated as a quarantined area in accordance with § 301.51-3(b).




*Regulated article.* Any article identified as a regulated article under § 301.51-2 as follows: listed as of January 30, 2023, added in accordance with § 301.51-2(b), or otherwise designated in accordance with § 301.51-2(c).




*State.* The District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any State, territory, or possession of the United States. 







---

[N] [62 FR 10416, Mar. 7, 1997, as amended at 87 FR 80006, Dec. 29, 2022]






