# ยง 180.100   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) The terms *ALJ, Department, Fair Housing Act, General Counsel,* and *HUD* are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A. 


(b) The terms *Aggrieved Person, Assistant Secretary, Attorney General, Discriminatory Housing Practice, Person,* and *State* are defined in 24 CFR part 103, subpart A. 


(c) Other terms used in this part are defined as follows:


*Agency* has the same meaning as *HUD.*

*Applicant* and *Application* have the meanings provided in 24 CFR 1.2 or 24 CFR 8.3, as applicable. 


*Charge* means the statement of facts issued under 24 CFR 103.405 upon which HUD has found reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur.


*Complaint* means a complaint filed under the statutes covered by this part. 


*Complainant* means the person (including the Assistant Secretary) who filed a complaint under the statutes covered by this part. 


*Docket Clerk* is the docket clerk for HUD's Office of Hearings and Appeals, 451 7th Street, SW., Room B-133, Washington, DC 20410. The telephone number is 202-254-0000 and the facsimile number is 202-619-7304.


*Fair Housing Act matters* refers to proceedings under this part pursuant to the Fair Housing Act and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR parts 100 and 103. 


*Federal financial assistance* has the meaning provided in 24 CFR 1.2, 6.3, 8.3, or 146.7, as applicable.


*Hearing* means a trial-type proceeding that involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, and briefs and oral arguments on the evidence and applicable law. 


*Intervenor* is a person entitled by law or permitted by the ALJ to participate as a party. 


*Non-Fair Housing Act matters* refers to proceedings under this part pursuant to:


(1) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 1;


(2) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, (29 U.S.C. 794) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8;


(3) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6103) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146; or


(4) Section 109 of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 5301-5321) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 6.


*Notice of Proposed Adverse Action* is the statement of facts issued pursuant to a non-Fair Housing Act matter upon which HUD has found reason to terminate or refuse to grant or continue Federal financial assistance. 


*Party* is a person who has full participation rights in a proceeding under this part. 


*Prevailing party* has the same meaning as the term has in section 722 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (42 U.S.C. 1988). 


*Recipient* has the meaning provided in 24 CFR 1.2, 6.3, 8.3, or 146.7, as applicable.


*Respondent* means the person accused of violating one of the statutes covered by this part, including a recipient. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of HUD, or to the extent of any delegation of authority by the Secretary to act under any of the statutory authorities listed in ยง 180.105(a), any other HUD official to whom the Secretary may hereafter delegate such authority. 



---

[N] [61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 3801, Jan. 25, 1999; 72 FR 53879, Sept. 20, 2007; 74 FR 4635, Jan. 26, 2009]




