# § 202.3a   Instructions for filing fees.

(a) *General instructions for remittance of filing fees.* Payment of filing fees specified by the following sections shall be made according to the directions listed in this section: §§ 230.111, 240.0-9, and 270.0-8 of this chapter. All such fees are to be paid through the U.S. Treasury designated lockbox depository or system and may be paid by wire transfer, debit card, or credit card or via the Automated Clearing House Network (“ACH”) pursuant to the specific instructions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Checks will not be accepted for payment of fees. To ensure proper posting, all filers must include their Commission-assigned Central Index Key (CIK) number (also known as the Commission-assigned registrant or payor account number) on fee payments. If a third party submits a fee payment, the fee payment must specify the account number to which the fee is to be applied.


(b) *Instructions for payment of filing fees.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, these instructions provide direction for remitting fees specified in paragraph (a) of this section. You may contact the Filing Fees Branch in the Office of Financial Management at (202) 551-8900 or go to *https://www.sec.gov/paymentoptions* for additional information if you have questions.


(1) *Instructions for payment of fees by wire transfer (FEDWIRE).* U.S. Bank, N.A. in St. Louis, Missouri, is the U.S. Treasury designated financial agent for Commission filing fee payments. The hours of operation at U.S. Bank for wire transfers are each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, 8:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time, whichever is currently in effect. Any bank or wire transfer service may initiate wire transfers of filing fee payments through the FEDWIRE system to U.S. Bank. A filing entity does not need to establish an account at U.S. Bank in order to remit filing fee payments.


(i) To ensure proper credit and prompt filing acceptance, in all wire transfers of filing fees to the Commission, you must include:


(A) The Commission's account number at U.S. Bank (850000001001); and


(B) The payor's CIK number.


(ii) You may refer to the examples found on the Commission's website at *https://www.sec.gov/paymentoptions* for the proper format.


(2) *Instructions for payment of fees by debit card or credit card or via the Automated Clearing House Network (ACH).* To remit a filing fee payment by debit card or credit card or via ACH, please go to the Commission's EDGAR system.


(c) *Special instructions for §§ 230.462(b) and 230.110(d) of this chapter.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, for registration statements filed pursuant to §§ 230.462(b) and § 230.110(d) of this chapter, payment of filing fees for the purposes of this section may be made by:


(1) The registrant or its agent instructing its bank or a wire transfer service to transmit to the Commission the applicable filing fee by a wire transfer of such amount from the issuer's account or its agent's account to the U.S. Treasury designated lockbox depository as soon as practicable, but no later than the close of the next business day following the filing of the registration statement; and


(2) The registrant submitting with the registration statement at the time of filing a certification that:


(i) The registrant or its agent has so instructed its bank or a wire transfer service;


(ii) The registrant or its agent will not revoke such instructions; and


(iii) The registrant or its agent has sufficient funds in such account to cover the amount of such filing fee.


(d) *Filing fee accounts.* A filing fee account is maintained for each filer who submits a filing requiring a fee on the Commission's EDGAR system or who submits funds to the U.S. Treasury designated depository in anticipation of paying a filing fee. Account statements are regularly prepared and provided to account holders. Account holders must maintain a current account address with the Commission to ensure timely access to these statements.


(e) *Return of funds from inactive accounts.* Funds held in any filing fee account in which there has not been a deposit, withdrawal or other adjustment for more than three years will be returned to the account holder, and account statements will not be sent again until a deposit, withdrawal or other adjustment is made with respect to the account. Filers must maintain a current account address to assure the timely return of funds. It may not be possible to return funds from inactive accounts if the Commission is unable to identify a current account address of an account holder after making reasonable efforts to do so.



---

[N] [73 FR 6013, Feb. 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 28890, May 19, 2011; 86 FR 70197, Dec. 9, 2021]




