# § 25.1583   Operating limitations.

(a) *Airspeed limitations.* The following airspeed limitations and any other airspeed limitations necessary for safe operation must be furnished: 


(1) The maximum operating limit speed *V*_MO_/*M*_MO_ and a statement that this speed limit may not be deliberately exceeded in any regime of flight (climb, cruise, or descent) unless a higher speed is authorized for flight test or pilot training. 


(2) If an airspeed limitation is based upon compressibility effects, a statement to this effect and information as to any symptoms, the probable behavior of the airplane, and the recommended recovery procedures. 


(3) The maneuvering speed established under § 25.1507 and statements, as applicable to the particular design, explaining that:


(i) Full application of pitch, roll, or yaw controls should be confined to speeds below the maneuvering speed; and


(ii) Rapid and large alternating control inputs, especially in combination with large changes in pitch, roll, or yaw, and full control inputs in more than one axis at the same time, should be avoided as they may result in structural failures at any speed, including below the maneuvering speed.


(4) The flap extended speed *V*_FE_ and the pertinent flap positions and engine powers. 


(5) The landing gear operating speed or speeds, and a statement explaining the speeds as defined in § 25.1515(a). 


(6) The landing gear extended speed *V*_LE,_ if greater than *V*_LO,_ and a statement that this is the maximum speed at which the airplane can be safely flown with the landing gear extended. 


(b) *Powerplant limitations.* The following information must be furnished: 


(1) Limitations required by § 25.1521 and § 25.1522. 


(2) Explanation of the limitations, when appropriate. 


(3) Information necessary for marking the instruments required by §§ 25.1549 through 25.1553. 


(c) *Weight and loading distribution.* The weight and center of gravity limitations established under § 25.1519 must be furnished in the Airplane Flight Manual. All of the following information, including the weight distribution limitations established under § 25.1519, must be presented either in the Airplane Flight Manual or in a separate weight and balance control and loading document that is incorporated by reference in the Airplane Flight Manual: 


(1) The condition of the airplane and the items included in the empty weight as defined in accordance with § 25.29. 


(2) Loading instructions necessary to ensure loading of the airplane within the weight and center of gravity limits, and to maintain the loading within these limits in flight. 


(3) If certification for more than one center of gravity range is requested, the appropriate limitations, with regard to weight and loading procedures, for each separate center of gravity range. 


(d) *Flight crew.* The number and functions of the minimum flight crew determined under § 25.1523 must be furnished. 


(e) *Kinds of operation.* The kinds of operation approved under § 25.1525 must be furnished. 


(f) *Ambient air temperatures and operating altitudes.* The extremes of the ambient air temperatures and operating altitudes established under § 25.1527 must be furnished. 


(g) [Reserved] 


(h) *Additional operating limitations.* The operating limitations established under § 25.1533 must be furnished. 


(i) *Maneuvering flight load factors.* The positive maneuvering limit load factors for which the structure is proven, described in terms of accelerations, must be furnished. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 1891, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29787, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-105, 66 FR 34024, June 26, 2001; 75 FR 49818, Aug. 16, 2010] 




