# ยง 252.12   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Advanced approaches* means the regulatory capital requirements at 12 CFR 217, subpart E, as applicable, and any successor regulation.


*Asset threshold* means average total consolidated assets of greater than $250 billion.


*Baseline scenario* means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a state member bank, and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.


*Capital action* has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.8(d)).


*Covered company subsidiary* means a state member bank that is a subsidiary of a covered company as defined in subpart F of this part.


*Planning horizon* means the period of at least nine consecutive quarters, beginning on the first day of a stress test cycle over which the relevant projections extend.


*Pre-provision net revenue* means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income less expenses before adjusting for loss provisions.


*Provision for credit losses* means:


(1) With respect to a state member bank that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for credit losses, as would be reported by the state member bank on the Call Report in the current stress test cycle; and


(2) With respect to a state member bank that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses as would be reported by the state member bank on the Call Report in the current stress test cycle.


*Regulatory capital ratio* means a capital ratio for which the Board has established minimum requirements for the state member bank by regulation or order, including, as applicable, the state member bank's regulatory capital ratios calculated under 12 CFR part 217 and the deductions required under 12 CFR 248.12; except that the state member bank shall not use the advanced approaches to calculate its regulatory capital ratios.


*Scenarios* are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a state member bank that the Board determines are appropriate for use in the company-run stress tests, including, but not limited to baseline and severely adverse scenarios.


*Severely adverse scenario* means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a state member bank and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.


*Stress test* means a process to assess the potential impact of scenarios on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a state member bank over the planning horizon, taking into account the current condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.


*Stress test cycle* means the period beginning on January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of that year.


*Subsidiary* has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2(o).



---

[N] [84 FR 59100, Nov. 1, 2019]




