# § 791.5   Scheduling of board meetings.

(a) *Meeting calls*—(1) *Regular meetings.* The Board will hold regular meetings each month unless there is no business or a quorum is not available. The Secretary of the Board will coordinate the dates for meetings. 


(2) *Special meetings.* The Chairman shall call special meetings either on the Chairman's own initiative or within fourteen days of a request from two Board members that is accompanied by an NCUA B-1 form and a Board Action Memorandum that states the specific issue(s) or action(s) to be considered by the Board.


(b) *Notice of meetings*—(1) *Notifying the public.* The Sunshine Act and subpart C set forth the procedures for notifying the public of Board meetings. 


(2) *Notifying board members*—(i) *Special meetings.* Except in cases of emergency, as determined by a majority of the Board, each Board member is entitled to receive notice of any special meeting at least twenty-four hours in advance of such meeting. The notice shall set forth the place, day, hour, and nature of business to be transacted at the meeting. In cases of emergency a record of the vote, including a statement explaining the decision that an emergency exists, will be maintained. 


(ii) *Regular meetings.* Each Board member is entitled to receive notice of the agenda and/or notice of any changes in the subject matter of such meetings concurrent with the public release of such notices under the Sunshine Act. Each Board member shall be entitled to at least twenty-four hours advance notice of the consideration of a particular subject matter, except in cases of emergency as determined by a majority of the Board. In cases of emergency, a record of the vote, including a statement explaining the decision that an emergency exists, will be maintained. 



---

[N] [53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 64267, Dec. 5, 1997; 63 FR 5859, Feb. 5, 1998; 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010]




