# § 161.002-2   Definitions.

In this subpart, the term—


*Device* means individual components (*e.g.* detectors, control panels, alarms, etc.) that are used to comprise a fire detection system. Devices may receive Coast Guard approval in accordance with § 161.002-19.


*Fire detection or fire detection and alarm systems system* means a complete detection system that is designed to give warning of the presence of fire or smoke in the protected spaces. A complete system includes normal and emergency power supplies, control units, remote annunciator panels, fire detectors and/or smoke detectors, manual pull stations, and audible and visual alarms, which are distinct from the alarms of any other system not indicating fire.


*Listed* means equipment or materials included in a list published by an organization that is an accepted independent laboratory, as defined in 46 CFR 159.010, or a nationally recognized testing laboratory, as set forth in 29 CFR 1910.7, whose listing states that either the equipment or material meets appropriate designated standards.


*Nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL)* means an organization that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has recognized as meeting the requirements in 29 CFR 1910.7. These requirements are for the capability, control programs, complete independence, and reporting and complaint-handling procedures to test and certify specific types of products for workplace safety. This means, in part, that an organization must have the necessary capability both as a product safety testing laboratory and as a product certification body to receive OSHA recognition as an NRTL.


*Sample extraction smoke detection systems* means systems that collect and analyze air samples from protected spaces in order to detect products of combustion. A complete system includes a control unit, a blower box, accumulators, and a piping system with associated fittings.





---

[N] [USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48274, July 22, 2016]












