# ยง 1101.21   Form of notice and opportunity to comment.

(a) *Notice may be oral or written.* The Commission will generally provide to manufacturers or private labelers written notice and opportunity to comment on information subject to section 6(b)(1). However, when the Commission publishes a finding that the public health and safety requires a lesser period of notice pursuant to section 6(b)(1) of the CPSA, the Commission may determine that it is necessary to provide the notice and opportunity to comment orally, either in person or by telephone.


(b) *Content of notice.* The Commission will provide the manufacturer or private labeler with:


(1) Either the actual text of the information to be disclosed or, if appropriate, a summary of the information.


(2) A general description of the manner in which the Commission will disclose the information, including any other relevant information the Commission intends to include with the disclosure. If the Commission advises that the form of disclosure will be by press release, for example, the Commission need not provide further notice to disclose a summary of the press release.


(3) A request for comment with respect to the information, including a request for explanatory data or other relevant information for the Commission's consideration.


(4) A statement that, in the absence of a specific request by a firm that its comments be withheld from disclosure, the Commission will release to the public the firm's comments (or a summary thereof prepared by the firm or, if the firm declines to do so, by the Commission).


(5) A statement that a request that comments be withheld from disclosure will be honored.


(6) Notice that the firm may request confidential treatment for the information, in accordance with section 6(a)(3) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(3) (*see* ยง 1101.24(b)).


(7) A statement that no further request for comment will be sought by the Commission if it intends to disclose the identical information in the same format, unless the firm specifically requests the opportunity to comment on subsequent information disclosures.


(8) The name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom comments should be sent and the time when any comments are due (*see* ยง 1101.22).



---

[N] [48 FR 57430, Dec. 29, 1983, as amended at 73 FR 72335, Nov. 28, 2008]




