# § 220.61   Informing the examining physician or psychologist of examination scheduling, report content and signature requirements.

Consulting physicians or psychologists will be fully informed at the time the Board contacts them of the following obligations:


(a) *General.* In scheduling full consultative examinations, sufficient time should be allowed to permit the examining physician to take a case history and perform the examination (including any needed tests).


(b) *Report content.* The reported results of the claimant's medical history, examination, pertinent requested laboratory findings, discussions and conclusions must conform to accepted professional standards and practices in the medical field for a complete and competent examination. The facts in a particular case and the information and findings already reported in the medical and other evidence of record will dictate the extent of detail needed in the consultative examination report for that case. Thus, the detail and format for reporting the results of a purchased examination will vary depending upon the type of examination or testing requested. The reporting of information will differ from one type of examination to another when the requested examination relates to the performance of tests such as ventilatory function tests, treadmill exercise tests, or audiological tests. The medical report must be complete enough to help the Board determine the nature, severity, duration of the impairment, and residual functional capacity. Pertinent points in the claimant's medical history, such as a description of chest pain, will reflect the claimant's statements of his or her symptoms, not simply the physician's or psychologist's statements or conclusions. The examining physician's or psychologist's report of the consultative examination will include the objective medical facts.


(c) *Elements of a complete examination.* A complete examination is one which involves all the elements of a standard examination in the applicable medical specialty. When a complete examination is involved, the report will include the following elements:


(1) The claimant's major or chief complaint(s).


(2) A detailed description, within the area of speciality of the examination, of the history of the claimant's major complaint(s).


(3) A description, and disposition, of pertinent “positive,” as well as “negative,” detailed findings based on the history, examination and laboratory test(s) related to the major complaint(s) and any other abnormalities reported or found during examination or laboratory testing.


(4) The results of laboratory and other tests (*e.g.,* x-rays) performed according to the requirements stated in the Board's directions to the examining physician or psychologist.


(5) The diagnosis and prognosis for the claimant's impairment(s).


(6) A statement as to what the claimant can still do despite his or her impairment(s) (except in disability claims for remarried widows and widowers, and surviving divorced spouses). This statement must describe the consultative physician's or psychologist's opinion concerning the claimant's ability, despite his or her impairment(s), to do basic work activities such as sitting, standing, lifting, carrying, handling objects, hearing, speaking, and traveling: and, in cases of mental impairment(s), the consultative physician's or psychologist's opinion as to the claimant's ability to reason or make occupational, personal, or social adjustments.


(7) When less than a complete examination is required (for example, a specific test or study is needed), not every element is required.


(d) *Signature requirements.* All consultative examination reports will be personally reviewed and signed by the physician or psychologist who actually performed the examination. This attests to the fact that the physician or psychologist doing the examination or testing is solely responsible for the report contents and for the conclusions, explanations or comments provided with respect to the history, examination and evaluation of laboratory test results.



---

[N] [56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63600, Dec. 4, 2009]




