# § 1562.29   Armed security officer requirements.

(a) *General.* Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each armed security officer must meet the following requirements:


(1) Be qualified to carry a firearm in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Successfully complete a TSA security threat assessment as described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) Meet such other requirements as TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, may establish in the Armed Security Officer Security Program.


(4) Be authorized by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, under 49 U.S.C. 44903(d).


(b) *Qualifications.* To be qualified to carry a firearm under this subpart, an individual must meet the requirements in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this section, unless otherwise authorized by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service.


(1) *Active law enforcement officers.* An active law enforcement officer must be an employee of a governmental agency who—


(i) Is authorized by law to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law;


(ii) Has statutory powers of arrest;


(iii) Is authorized by the agency to carry a firearm;


(iv) Is not the subject of any disciplinary action by the agency;


(v) Is not under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and


(vi) Is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm.


(2) *Retired law enforcement officers.* A retired law enforcement officer must be an individual who—


(i) Retired in good standing from service with a public agency as a law enforcement officer, other than for reasons of mental instability;


(ii) Before such retirement, was authorized by law to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law, and had statutory powers of arrest;


(iii) Before such retirement, was regularly employed as a law enforcement officer for an aggregate of 15 years or more, or retired from service with such agency, after completing any applicable probationary period of such service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by such agency;


(iv) Has a non-forfeitable right to benefits under the retirement plan of the agency;


(v) Is not under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and


(vi) Is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm.


(3) *Other individuals.* Any other individual must—


(i) Meet qualifications established by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, in the Armed Security Officer Program;


(ii) Not be under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and


(iii) Not be prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm.


(c) *Threat assessments.* To be authorized under this section, each armed security officer:


(1) Must undergo a fingerprint-based criminal history records check that does not disclose that he or she has a criminal offense that would disqualify him or her from possessing a firearm under 18 U.S.C. 922(g).


(2) May, if informed that a disqualifying offense has been disclosed, correct the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of § 1544.229 of this chapter regarding notification and correction of records.


(3) Must submit to TSA his or her:


(i) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used.


(ii) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address.


(iii) Date and place of birth.


(iv) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended).


(v) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States.


(vi) Alien registration number, if applicable.


(4) Must undergo a threat assessment by TSA prior to receiving authorization under this section and prior to boarding an aircraft operating into or out of DCA as provided in § 1562.23(d)(1) of this part.


(d) *Training.* Each armed security officer onboard an aircraft operating into or out of DCA must:


(1) Have basic law enforcement training acceptable to TSA; and


(2) Successfully complete a TSA-approved training course, developed in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, at the expense of the armed security officer.


(e) *Armed security officer program.* (1) Each armed security officer onboard an aircraft operating into or out of DCA must—


(i) Comply with the Armed Security Officer Program.


(ii) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of sensitive security information (SSI), as defined in part 1520 of this chapter, to persons with a need to know, and refer all requests for SSI by other persons to TSA.


(2) TSA and the Federal Air Marshal Service may conduct random inspections of armed security officers to ensure compliance with the Armed Security Officer Program.


(f) *Authority to carry firearm.* An armed security officer approved under this section is authorized—


(1) To carry a firearm in accordance with the Armed Security Officer Program on an aircraft operating under a DASSP into or out of DCA; and


(2) To transport a firearm in accordance with the Armed Security Officer Program at any airport as needed to carry out duties under this subpart, including for travel to and from flights conducted under this subpart.


(g) *Use of force.* Each armed security officer authorized to carry a firearm under this section may use force, including deadly force, in accordance with the Armed Security Officer Program.


(h) *Use of alcohol or intoxicating or hallucinatory drugs or substances.* An armed security officer onboard an aircraft operating into or out of DCA may not consume alcohol or use an intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance during the flight and within 8 hours before boarding the aircraft.


(i) *Credential*—(1) *TSA credential.* An armed security officer under this section must carry a credential issued by TSA.


(2) *Inspection of credential.* An armed security officer must present the TSA-issued credential for inspection when requested by an authorized representative of TSA, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Air Marshal Service, the National Transportation Safety Board, any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer, or any authorized aircraft operator representative.


(3) *Preflight identification to crewmembers.* When carrying a firearm, an armed security officer must identify himself or herself to all crewmembers either personally or through another member of the crew before the flight.


(j) *Suspension or withdrawal of authorization.* At the discretion of TSA, authorization under this subpart and 49 U.S.C. 44903(d) is suspended or withdrawn upon notification by TSA.




