# ยง 201.151   Filing of papers with the Commission: Procedure.

(a) *When to file.* All papers required to be served upon any person shall also be filed contemporaneously with the Commission electronically pursuant to the requirements of ยง 201.152(a). The person making such filing is responsible for ensuring that the Commission receives a complete and legible filing within the time limit set for such filing. Documents that are attached to filings shall be filed in accordance with this section.


(b) *Where to file.* Filing of papers with the Commission shall be made by filing them with the Secretary. When a proceeding is assigned to a hearing officer, a person making a filing with the Secretary shall promptly provide to the hearing officer a copy of any such filing, provided, however, that the hearing officer may direct or permit filings to be made with him or her, in which event the hearing officer shall note thereon the filing date and promptly provide the Secretary with either the original or a copy of any such filings. 


(c) *To whom to direct the filing.* Unless otherwise provided, where the Commission has assigned a case to a hearing officer, all motions, objections, applications or other filings made during a proceeding prior to the filing of an initial decision therein, or, if no initial decision is to be filed, prior to the time fixed for the filing of briefs with the Commission, shall be directed to and decided by the hearing officer. 


(d) *Certificate of service.* Papers filed with the Commission or a hearing officer shall be accompanied by a certificate stating the name of the person or persons served, the date of service, the method of service, and the mailing address or email address to which service was made, if not made in person.


(e) *Sensitive personal information.* Sensitive personal information is defined as a Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, financial account number, credit card or debit card number, passport number, driver's license number, state-issued identification number, home address (other than city and state), telephone number, date of birth (other than year), names and initials of minor children, as well as any unnecessary health information identifiable by individual, such as an individual's medical records. Sensitive personal information shall not be included in, and must be redacted or omitted from, all filings subject to:


(1) *Exceptions.* The following information may be included and is not required to be redacted from filings:


(i) The last four digits of a financial account number, credit card or debit card number, passport number, driver's license number, and state-issued identification number;


(ii) Home addresses and telephone numbers of parties and persons filing documents with the Commission;


(iii) Business telephone numbers; and


(iv) Copies of unredacted filings by regulated entities or registrants that are available on the Commission's public website.


(2) *Confidential treatment of information.* If the person making any filing believes that sensitive personal information (as defined above) contained therein is necessary to the proceeding, the person shall file unredacted documents, along with a motion for a protective order with redacted documents, in accordance with ยง 201.322 to limit disclosure of unredacted sensitive personal information.


(3) *Certification.* Any filing must include a certification that any information described in paragraph (e) of this section has been omitted or redacted from the filing or, if necessary to the filing, has been filed under seal pursuant to ยง 201.322.



---

[N] [60 FR 32796, June 23, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 13176, Mar. 19, 2004; 85 FR 86478, Dec. 30, 2020]




