# ยง 31.304   Definitions.

(a) *Criminal-type offender.* A juvenile offender who has been charged with or adjudicated for conduct which would, under the law of the jurisdiction in which the offense was committed, be a crime if committed by an adult.


(b) *Detain or confine* means to hold, keep, or restrain a person such that he is not free to leave, or such that a reasonable person would believe that he is not free to leave, except that a juvenile held by law enforcement solely for the purpose of returning him to his parent or guardian or pending his transfer to the custody of a child welfare or social service agency is not detained or confined within the meaning of this definition.


(c) *Facility.* A place, an institution, a building or part thereof, set of buildings or an area whether or not enclosing a building or set of buildings which is used for the lawful custody and treatment of juveniles and may be owned and/or operated by public and private agencies.


(d) *Juvenile offender.* An individual subject to the exercise of juvenile court jurisdiction for purposes of adjudication and treatment based on age and offense limitations by defined as State law, *i.e.,* a criminal-type offender or a status offender.


(e) *Juvenile who has been adjudicated as having committed an offense.* A juvenile with respect to whom the juvenile court has determined that such juvenile is a juvenile offender, *i.e.,* a criminal-type offender or a status offender.


(f) *Juvenile who is accused of having committed an offense.* A juvenile with respect to whom a petition has been filed in the juvenile court or other action has occurred alleging that such juvenile is a juvenile offender, *i.e.,* a criminal-type offender or a status offender, and no final adjudication has been made by the juvenile court.


(g) *Lawful custody.* The exercise of care, supervision and control over a juvenile offender or non-offender pursuant to the provisions of the law or of a judicial order or decree.


(h) *Local private agency.* For the purposes of the pass-through requirement of section 223(a)(5), a local private agency is defined as a private non-profit agency or organization that provides program services within an identifiable unit or a combination of units of general local government.


(i) *Non-offender.* A juvenile who is subject to the jurisdiction of the juvenile court, usually under abuse, dependency, or neglect statutes for reasons other than legally prohibited conduct of the juvenile.


(j) *Other individual accused of having committed a criminal offense.* An individual, adult or juvenile, who has been charged with committing a criminal offense in a court exercising criminal jurisdiction.


(k) *Other individual convicted of a criminal offense.* An individual, adult or juvenile, who has been convicted of a criminal offense in court exercising criminal jurisdiction.


(l) *Private agency.* A private non-profit agency, organization or institution is:


(1) Any corporation, foundation, trust, association, cooperative, or accredited institution of higher education not under public supervision or control; and


(2) Any other agency, organization or institution which operates primarily for scientific, education, service, charitable, or similar public purposes, but which is not under public supervision or control, and no part of the net earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and which has been held by IRS to be tax-exempt under the provisions of section 501(c)(3) of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code.


(m) *Secure.* As used to define a detention or correctional facility this term includes residential facilities which include construction features designed to physically restrict the movements and activities of persons in custody such as locked rooms and buildings, fences, or other physical structures. It does not include facilities where physical restriction of movement or activity is provided solely through facility staff.




