# ยง 93.800   Definitions.

The following terms, when used in this part, shall be construed as defined. Those terms used in the singular form in this part shall be construed as the plural form and vice versa, as the case may demand. 


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of this chapter, and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter; and to perform functions required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS).


*APHIS representative.* A veterinarian or other person employed by APHIS in animal health activities, who is authorized to perform the function involved.


*Enter (entered, entry) into the United States.* To introduce into the commerce of the United States after release from government detention. 


*Import (imported, importation) into the United States.* To bring into the territorial limits of the United States. 


*Incinerate (incinerated).* To reduce to ash by burning. 


*Inspector.* An employee of APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or any other legal entity.


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.)


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*United States.* All of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other territories and possessions of the United States.


*United States health certificate.* An official document issued by an APHIS representative or an accredited veterinarian at the point of origin of a movement of animals. It must show the identification tag, tattoo, or registration number of each animal to be moved; the age and sex of each animal to be moved; the number of animals covered by the document; the points of origin and destination; the consignor; and the consignee.


*Veterinary Services.* The Veterinary Services unit of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.



---

[N] [52 FR 29502, Aug. 10, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 23048, 23049, June 1, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56021, Oct. 28, 1997]




