# § 35.07-10   Actions required to be logged—TB/ALL.

(a) *General—TB/ALL.* The actions and observations noted in this section shall be entered in the Official Logbook or in logs or records considered to take place of the Official Logbooks. This section contains no requirements which are not made in specific laws or in other regulations in this subchapter, the items being merely grouped together for convenience. 


(b) *Entries—T/ALL.* Entries shall be made in the logs of tankships with respect to the following: 


(1) Onboard training, musters, and drills: held in accordance with subchapter W (Lifesaving Appliances or Arrangements) of this chapter. 


(2) Draft and load line marks. For tankships of 150 gross tons and over, prior to leaving port for ocean, coastwise, and Great Lakes voyages only. See § 35.20-5. 


(3) Verification of vessel compliance with applicable stability requirements. After loading and prior to departure and at all other times necessary to assure the safety of the vessel. See § 35.20-7.


(4) Steering gear tests. Prior to departure, or for tank ships on voyages of less than 48 hours duration or tankships operating on lakes, bays, sounds and rivers, once every week. See § 35.20-10. 


(5) Fuel oil data. Upon receipt of fuel oil on board to be used as fuel. See § 35.25-10. 


(6) Inspections and tests of firefighting equipment. Once every year. See § 31.10-18 of this subchapter. 


(7) Operation and inspection of the emergency lighting and power systems. Once in each week that the vessel is navigated. See § 35.10-15. 


(8) Cargo gear inspections: At least once a month. See § 31.37-70 of this subchapter. 


(c) *Entries—B/ALL.* Entries shall be made in the records for tank barges with respect to the following: 


(1) Inspections and tests of firefighting equipment. Once every year. See § 31.10-18 of this subchapter. 


(2) Draft and load line marks. For tank barges of 150 gross tons and over, prior to leaving port for ocean, coastwise, and Great Lakes voyages only. 


(3) Cargo gear inspections: At least once a month. See § 31.37-70 of this subchapter. 


(4) Verification of vessel compliance with applicable stability requirements. After loading and prior to departure and at all other times necessary to assure the safety of the vessel. See § 35.20-7.



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16704, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGD 89-037, 57 FR 41821, Sept. 11, 1992; CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25286, May 20, 1996, CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51199, Sept. 30, 1997]




