# § 1.163-13   Treatment of bond issuance premium.

(a) *General rule.* If a debt instrument is issued with bond issuance premium, this section limits the amount of the issuer's interest deduction otherwise allowable under section 163(a). In general, the issuer determines its interest deduction by offsetting the interest allocable to an accrual period with the bond issuance premium allocable to that period. Bond issuance premium is allocable to an accrual period based on a constant yield. The use of a constant yield to amortize bond issuance premium is intended to generally conform the treatment of debt instruments having bond issuance premium with those having original issue discount. Unless otherwise provided, the terms used in this section have the same meaning as those terms in section 163(e), sections 1271 through 1275, and the corresponding regulations. Moreover, unless otherwise provided, the provisions of this section apply in a manner consistent with those of section 163(e), sections 1271 through 1275, and the corresponding regulations. In addition, the anti-abuse rule in § 1.1275-2(g) applies for purposes of this section. For rules dealing with the treatment of bond premium by a holder, see §§ 1.171-1 through 1.171-5.


(b) *Exceptions.* This section does not apply to—


(1) A debt instrument described in section 1272(a)(6)(C) (regular interests in a REMIC, qualified mortgages held by a REMIC, and certain other debt instruments, or pools of debt instruments, with payments subject to acceleration); or


(2) A debt instrument to which § 1.1275-4 applies (relating to certain debt instruments that provide for contingent payments).


(c) *Bond issuance premium.* Bond issuance premium is the excess, if any, of the issue price of a debt instrument over its stated redemption price at maturity. For purposes of this section, the issue price of a convertible bond (as defined in § 1.171-1(e)(1)(iii)(C)) does not include an amount equal to the value of the conversion option (as determined under § 1.171-1(e)(1)(iii)(A)).


(d) *Offsetting qualified stated interest with bond issuance premium*—(1) *In general.* An issuer amortizes bond issuance premium by offsetting the qualified stated interest allocable to an accrual period with the bond issuance premium allocable to the accrual period. This offset occurs when the issuer takes the qualified stated interest into account under its regular method of accounting.


(2) *Qualified stated interest allocable to an accrual period.* See § 1.446-2(b) to determine the accrual period to which qualified stated interest is allocable and to determine the accrual of qualified stated interest within an accrual period.


(3) *Bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period.* The bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period is determined under this paragraph (d)(3). Within an accrual period, the bond issuance premium allocable to the period accrues ratably.


(i) *Step one: Determine the debt instrument's yield to maturity.* The yield to maturity of a debt instrument is determined under the rules of § 1.1272-1(b)(1)(i).


(ii) *Step two: Determine the accrual periods.* The accrual periods are determined under the rules of § 1.1272-1(b)(1)(ii).


(iii) *Step three: Determine the bond issuance premium allocable to the accrual period.* The bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period is the excess of the qualified stated interest allocable to the accrual period over the product of the adjusted issue price at the beginning of the accrual period and the yield. In performing this calculation, the yield must be stated appropriately taking into account the length of the particular accrual period. Principles similar to those in § 1.1272-1(b)(4) apply in determining the bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period.


(4) *Bond issuance premium in excess of qualified stated interest*—(i) *Ordinary income.* If the bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period exceeds the qualified stated interest allocable to the accrual period, the excess is treated as ordinary income by the issuer for the accrual period. However, the amount treated as ordinary income is limited to the amount by which the issuer's total interest deductions on the debt instrument in prior accrual periods exceed the total amount treated by the issuer as ordinary income on the debt instrument in prior accrual periods.


(ii) *Carryforward.* If the bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period exceeds the sum of the qualified stated interest allocable to the accrual period and the amount treated as ordinary income for the accrual period under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, the excess is carried forward to the next accrual period and is treated as bond issuance premium allocable to that period. If a carryforward exists on the date the debt instrument is retired, the carryforward is treated as ordinary income on that date.


(e) *Special rules*—(1) *Variable rate debt instruments.* An issuer determines bond issuance premium on a variable rate debt instrument by reference to the stated redemption price at maturity of the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument constructed for the variable rate debt instrument. The issuer also allocates any bond issuance premium among the accrual periods by reference to the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument. The issuer constructs the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument, as of the issue date, by using the principles of § 1.1275-5(e).


(2) *Inflation-indexed debt instruments.* An issuer determines bond issuance premium on an inflation-indexed debt instrument by assuming that there will be no inflation or deflation over the term of the instrument. The issuer also allocates any bond issuance premium among the accrual periods by assuming that there will be no inflation or deflation over the term of the instrument. The bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period offsets qualified stated interest allocable to the period. Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(4) of this section, if the bond issuance premium allocable to an accrual period exceeds the qualified stated interest allocable to the period, the excess is treated as a deflation adjustment under § 1.1275-7(f)(1)(ii). See § 1.1275-7 for other rules relating to inflation-indexed debt instruments.


(3) *Certain debt instruments subject to contingencies*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, the rules of § 1.1272-1(c) apply to determine a debt instrument's payment schedule for purposes of this section. For example, an issuer uses the payment schedule determined under § 1.1272-1(c) to determine the amount, if any, of bond issuance premium on the debt instrument, the yield and maturity of the debt instrument, and the allocation of bond issuance premium to an accrual period.


(ii) *Mandatory sinking fund provision.* Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, if a debt instrument is subject to a mandatory sinking fund provision described in § 1.1272-1(c)(3), the issuer must determine the payment schedule by assuming that a pro rata portion of the debt instrument will be called under the sinking fund provision.


(4) *Remote and incidental contingencies.* For purposes of determining the amount of bond issuance premium and allocating bond issuance premium among accrual periods, if a bond provides for a contingency that is remote or incidental (within the meaning of § 1.1275-2(h)), the issuer takes the contingency into account under the rules for remote and incidental contingencies in § 1.1275-2(h).


(f) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this section:


(g) *Effective date.* This section applies to debt instruments issued on or after March 2, 1998.


(h) *Accounting method changes*—(1) *Consent to change.* An issuer required to change its method of accounting for bond issuance premium to comply with this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with the requirements of § 1.446-1(e). Paragraph (h)(2) of this section provides the Commissioner's automatic consent for certain changes.


(2) *Automatic consent.* The Commissioner grants consent for an issuer to change its method of accounting for bond issuance premium on debt instruments issued on or after March 2, 1998. Because this change is made on a cut-off basis, no items of income or deduction are omitted or duplicated and, therefore, no adjustment under section 481 is allowed. The consent granted by this paragraph (h)(2) applies provided—


(i) The change is made to comply with this section;


(ii) The change is made for the first taxable year for which the issuer must account for a debt instrument under this section; and


(iii) The issuer attaches to its federal income tax return for the taxable year containing the change a statement that it has changed its method of accounting under this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 8746, 62 FR 68176, Dec. 31, 1997, as amended by T.D. 8838, 64 FR 48547, Sept. 7, 1999]




