# § 63.7555   What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep records according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status or semiannual compliance report that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(2) Records of performance tests, fuel analyses, or other compliance demonstrations and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(3) For units in the limited use subcategory, you must keep a copy of the federally enforceable permit that limits the annual capacity factor to less than or equal to 10 percent and fuel use records for the days the boiler or process heater was operating.


(b) For each CEMS, COMS, and continuous monitoring system you must keep records according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vii) through (xi).


(2) Monitoring data for continuous opacity monitoring system during a performance evaluation as required in § 63.6(h)(7)(i) and (ii).


(3) Previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3).


(4) Request for alternatives to relative accuracy test for CEMS as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i).


(5) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped.


(c) You must keep the records required in Table 8 to this subpart including records of all monitoring data and calculated averages for applicable operating limits, such as opacity, pressure drop, pH, and operating load, to show continuous compliance with each emission limit and operating limit that applies to you.


(d) For each boiler or process heater subject to an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must also keep the applicable records in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section.




(1) You must keep records of monthly fuel use by each boiler or process heater, including the type(s) of fuel and amount(s) used.


(2) If you combust non-hazardous secondary materials that have been determined not to be solid waste pursuant to § 241.3(b)(1) and (2) of this chapter, you must keep a record that documents how the secondary material meets each of the legitimacy criteria under § 241.3(d)(1) of this chapter. If you combust a fuel that has been processed from a discarded non-hazardous secondary material pursuant to § 241.3(b)(4) of this chapter, you must keep records as to how the operations that produced the fuel satisfy the definition of processing in § 241.2 of this chapter. If the fuel received a non-waste determination pursuant to the petition process submitted under § 241.3(c) of this chapter, you must keep a record that documents how the fuel satisfies the requirements of the petition process. For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials as fuel per § 241.4 of this chapter, you must keep records documenting that the material is listed as a non-waste under § 241.4(a) of this chapter. Units exempt from the incinerator standards under section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act because they are qualifying facilities burning a homogeneous waste stream do not need to maintain the records described in this paragraph (d)(2).


(3) A copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of maximum chlorine fuel input, using Equation 7 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl emission limit, for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing. For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of HCl emission rates, using Equation 16 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate compliance with the HCl emission limit. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses and basis for the estimates of maximum chlorine fuel input or HCl emission rates. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers and process heaters provided they are all burning the same fuel type. However, you must calculate chlorine fuel input, or HCl emission rate, for each boiler and process heater.


(4) A copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of maximum mercury fuel input, using Equation 8 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate continuous compliance with the mercury emission limit for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing. For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of mercury emission rates, using Equation 17 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limit. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses and basis for the estimates of maximum mercury fuel input or mercury emission rates. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers and process heaters provided they are all burning the same fuel type. However, you must calculate mercury fuel input, or mercury emission rates, for each boiler and process heater.


(5) If, consistent with § 63.7515(b), you choose to stack test less frequently than annually, you must keep a record that documents that your emissions in the previous stack test(s) were less than 75 percent of the applicable emission limit (or, in specific instances noted in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15 to this subpart, less than the applicable emission limit), and document that there was no change in source operations including fuel composition and operation of air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the relevant pollutant to increase within the past year.




(6) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the boiler or process heater, or of the associated air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(7) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with the general duty to minimize emissions in § 63.7500(a)(3), including corrective actions to restore the malfunctioning boiler or process heater, air pollution control, or monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(8) A copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of maximum TSM fuel input, using Equation 9 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate continuous compliance with the TSM emission limit for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing. For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of TSM emission rates, using Equation 18 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate compliance with the TSM emission limit. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses and basis for the estimates of maximum TSM fuel input or TSM emission rates. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers and process heaters provided they are all burning the same fuel type. However, you must calculate TSM fuel input, or TSM emission rates, for each boiler and process heater.


(9) You must maintain records of the calendar date, time, occurrence and duration of each startup and shutdown.


(10) You must maintain records of the type(s) and amount(s) of fuels used during each startup and shutdown.


(11) For each startup period, for units selecting paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.7575 you must maintain records of the time that clean fuel combustion begins; the time when you start feeding fuels that are not clean fuels; the time when useful thermal energy is first supplied; and the time when the PM controls are engaged.


(12) If you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.7575, for each startup period, you must maintain records of the hourly steam temperature, hourly steam pressure, hourly steam flow, hourly flue gas temperature, and all hourly average CMS data (*e.g.,* CEMS, PM CPMS, COMS, ESP total secondary electric power input, scrubber pressure drop, scrubber liquid flow rate) collected during each startup period to confirm that the control devices are engaged. In addition, if compliance with the PM emission limit is demonstrated using a PM control device, you must maintain records as specified in paragraphs (d)(12)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For a boiler or process heater with an electrostatic precipitator, record the number of fields in service, as well as each field's secondary voltage and secondary current during each hour of startup.


(ii) For a boiler or process heater with a fabric filter, record the number of compartments in service, as well as the differential pressure across the baghouse during each hour of startup.


(iii) For a boiler or process heater with a wet scrubber needed for filterable PM control, record the scrubber's liquid flow rate and the pressure drop during each hour of startup.


(13) If you choose to use paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.7575 and you find that you are unable to safely engage and operate your PM control(s) within 1 hour of first firing of non-clean fuels, you may choose to rely on paragraph (1) of definition of “startup” in § 63.7575 or you may submit to the delegated permitting authority a request for a variance with the PM controls requirement, as described below.


(i) The request shall provide evidence of a documented manufacturer-identified safety issue.


(ii) The request shall provide information to document that the PM control device is adequately designed and sized to meet the applicable PM emission limit.


(iii) In addition, the request shall contain documentation that:


(A) The unit is using clean fuels to the maximum extent possible to bring the unit and PM control device up to the temperature necessary to alleviate or prevent the identified safety issues prior to the combustion of primary fuel;


(B) The unit has explicitly followed the manufacturer's procedures to alleviate or prevent the identified safety issue; and


(C) Identifies with specificity the details of the manufacturer's statement of concern.


(iv) You must comply with all other work practice requirements, including but not limited to data collection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.


(e) If you elect to average emissions consistent with § 63.7522, you must additionally keep a copy of the emission averaging implementation plan required in § 63.7522(g), all calculations required under § 63.7522, including monthly records of heat input or steam generation, as applicable, and monitoring records consistent with § 63.7541.


(f) If you elect to use efficiency credits from energy conservation measures to demonstrate compliance according to § 63.7533, you must keep a copy of the Implementation Plan required in § 63.7533(d) and copies of all data and calculations used to establish credits according to § 63.7533(b), (c), and (f).


(g) If you elected to demonstrate that the unit meets the specification for mercury for the unit designed to burn gas 1 subcategory, you must maintain monthly records (or at the frequency required by § 63.7540(c)) of the calculations and results of the fuel specification for mercury in Table 6.


(h) If you operate a unit in the unit designed to burn gas 1 subcategory that is subject to this subpart, and you use an alternative fuel other than natural gas, refinery gas, gaseous fuel subject to another subpart under this part, other gas 1 fuel, or gaseous fuel subject to another subpart of this part or part 60, 61, or 65, you must keep records of the total hours per calendar year that alternative fuel is burned and the total hours per calendar year that the unit operated during periods of gas curtailment or gas supply emergencies.



---

[N] [76 FR 15664, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7185, Jan. 31, 2013; 80 FR 72816, Nov. 20, 2015; 87 FR 60846, Oct. 6, 2022]




