# § 416.204   Redeterminations of SSI eligibility.

(a) *Redeterminations defined.* A redetermination is a review of your eligibility to make sure that you are still eligible and that you are receiving the right amount of SSI benefits. This review deals with the requirements for eligibility other than whether you are still disabled or blind. Continuation of disability or blindness reviews are discussed in §§ 416.989 and 416.990.


(b) *When we make redeterminations.* (1) We redetermine your eligibility on a scheduled basis at periodic intervals. The length of time between scheduled redeterminations varies depending on the likelihood that your situation may change in a way that affects your benefits.


(2) We may also redetermine your eligibility when you tell us (or we otherwise learn) of a change in your situation which affects your eligibility or the amount of your benefit.


(c) *The period for which a redetermination applies:* (1) The first redetermination applies to—


(i) The month in which we make the redetermination;


(ii) All months beginning with the first day of the latest of the following:


(A) The month of first eligibility or re-eligibility; or


(B) The month of application; or


(C) The month of deferred or updated development; and


(iii) Future months until the second redetermination.


(2) All other redeterminations apply to—


(i) The month in which we make the redetermination;


(ii) All months beginning with the first day of the month the last redetermination was initiated; and


(iii) Future months until the next redetermination.


(3) If we made two redeterminations which cover the same month, the later redetermination is the one we apply to that month.



---

[N] [47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 48570, Nov. 26, 1985; 58 FR 64893, Dec. 10, 1993]




