# § 9.48   Monticello.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Monticello.”


(b) *Approved maps.* Approved maps for the Monticello viticultural area are three 1971 U.S.G.S. maps titled:


(1) Charlottesville Quadrangle, Virginia: 1:250,000 minute series;


(2) Roanoke Quadrangle, Virginia: 1:250,000 minute series; and


(3) Washington, DC: 1:250,000 minute series.


(c) *Boundaries.* (1) From Norwood, Virginia, following the Tye River west and northwest until it intersects with the eastern boundary of the George Washington National Forest;


(2) Following this boundary northeast to Virginia Rt. 664;


(3) Then west following Rt. 664 to its intersection with the Nelson County line;


(4) Then northeast along the Nelson County line to its intersection with the Albemarle County line at Jarman Gap;


(5) From this point continuing northeast along the eastern boundary of the Shenandoah National Park to its intersection with the northern Albemarle County line;


(6) Continuing northeast along the Greene County line to its intersection with Virginia Rt. 33;


(7) Follow Virginia Rt. 33 east to the intersection of Virginia Rt. 230 at Stanardsville;


(8) Follow Virginia Rt. 230 north to the Greene County line (the Conway River);


(9) Following the Greene County line (Conway River which becomes the Rapidan River) southeast to its intersection with the Orange County line;


(10) Following the Orange County line (Rapidan River) east and northeast to its confluence with the Mountain Run River;


(11) Then following the Mountain Run River southwest to its intersection with Virginia Rt. 20;


(12) Continuing southwest along Rt. 20 to the corporate limits of the town of Orange;


(13) Following southwest the corporate limit line to its intersection with U.S. Rt. 15;


(14) Continuing southwest on Rt. 15 to its intersection with Virginia Rt. 231 in the town of Gordonsville;


(15) Then southwest along Rt. 231 to its intersection with the Albemarle County line.


(16) Then continuing southwest along the county line to its intersection with the Rivanna River;


(17) Then southeast along the Rivanna River to its confluence with the James River, near the Fluvanna-Goochland County line;


(18) Then southwest, then northwest along the James River to its intersection with the Albemarle County line;


(19) Then following the James River to its confluence with the Tye River at Norwood, Virginia, the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-164, 49 FR 2758, Jan. 23, 1984, as amended by T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5957, Feb. 27, 1987; T.D. ATF-255, 52 FR 23652, June 24, 1987; T.D. TTB-154, 83 FR 64274, Dec. 14, 2018]




