# § 61.13   Issuance of airman certificates, ratings, and authorizations.

(a) *Application.* (1) An applicant for an airman certificate, rating, or authorization under this part must make that application on a form and in a manner acceptable to the Administrator.


(2) An applicant must show evidence that the appropriate fee prescribed in appendix A to part 187 of this chapter has been paid when that person applies for airmen certification services administered outside the United States.


(3) An applicant who is neither a citizen of the United States nor a resident alien of the United States may be refused issuance of any U.S. airman certificate, rating or authorization by the Administrator.


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, an applicant who satisfactorily accomplishes the training and certification requirements for the certificate, rating, or authorization sought is entitled to receive that airman certificate, rating, or authorization.


(b) *Limitations.* (1) An applicant who cannot comply with certain areas of operation required on the practical test because of physical limitations may be issued an airman certificate, rating, or authorization with the appropriate limitation placed on the applicant's airman certificate provided the—


(i) Applicant is able to meet all other certification requirements for the airman certificate, rating, or authorization sought;


(ii) Physical limitation has been recorded with the FAA on the applicant's medical records; and 


(iii) Administrator determines that the applicant's inability to perform the particular area of operation will not adversely affect safety. 


(2) A limitation placed on a person's airman certificate may be removed, provided that person demonstrates for an examiner satisfactory proficiency in the area of operation appropriate to the airman certificate, rating, or authorization sought. 


(c) *Additional requirements for Category II and Category III pilot authorizations.* (1) A Category II or Category III pilot authorization is issued by a letter of authorization as part of an applicant's instrument rating or airline transport pilot certificate. 


(2) Upon original issue, the authorization contains the following limitations: 


(i) For Category II operations, the limitation is 1,600 feet RVR and a 150-foot decision height; and 


(ii) For Category III operations, each initial limitation is specified in the authorization document. 


(3) The limitations on a Category II or Category III pilot authorization may be removed as follows: 


(i) In the case of Category II limitations, a limitation is removed when the holder shows that, since the beginning of the sixth preceding month, the holder has made three Category II ILS approaches with a 150-foot decision height to a landing under actual or simulated instrument conditions. 


(ii) In the case of Category III limitations, a limitation is removed as specified in the authorization. 


(4) To meet the experience requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and for the practical test required by this part for a Category II or a Category III pilot authorization, a flight simulator or flight training device may be used if it is approved by the Administrator for such use. 


(d) *Application during suspension or revocation.* (1) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a person whose pilot, flight instructor, or ground instructor certificate has been suspended may not apply for any certificate, rating, or authorization during the period of suspension. 


(2) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a person whose pilot, flight instructor, or ground instructor certificate has been revoked may not apply for any certificate, rating, or authorization for 1 year after the date of revocation. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 40895, July 30, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-116, 72 FR 18558, Apr. 12, 2007; Amdt. 61-132, 78 FR 77572, Dec. 24, 2013]








