# § 157.3   Definitions.

These terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.


*Actionable information.* Information that potentially justifies an unfavorable credentialing determination.


*CAC.* The DoD Federal PIV card.


*Contractor.* Defined in Executive Order 13467, “Reforming Processes Related to Sustainability for Government Employment, Fitness for Contractor Employees, and Eligibility for Access to Classified National Security Information”.


*Contractor employee fitness.* Defined in E.O. 13467.


*Debarment.* A prohibition from taking a competitive service examination or from being hired (or retained in) a covered position for a specific time period..


*Drugs.* Mood and behavior-altering substances, including drugs, materials, and other chemical compounds identified and listed in 21 U.S.C. 801-830 (also known as “The Controlled Substances Act of 1970, as amended”) (e.g., marijuana or cannabis, depressants, narcotics, stimulants, hallucinogens), and inhalants and other similar substances.


*Drug abuse.* The illegal use of a drug or use of a legal drug in a manner that deviates from approved medical direction.


*Employee.* Defined in E.O. 12968, “Access to Classified Information”.


*Fitness.* Defined in E.O. 13488, “Granting Reciprocity on Excepted Service and Federal Contractor Employee Fitness and Reinvestigating Individuals in Positions of Public Trust”.


*Fitness determination.* Defined in E.O. 13488.


*Logical and physical access.* Defined in E.O. 13467.


*Material.* Defined in 5 CFR part 731.


*Reasonable basis.* A reasonable basis to believe occurs when a disinterested observer, with knowledge of the same facts and circumstances, would reasonably reach the same conclusion.


*Terrorism.* Defined in 19 U.S.C. 2331.


*Unacceptable risk.* A threat to the life, safety, or health of employees, contractors, vendors, or visitors; to the U.S. Government physical assets or information systems; to personal property; to records, including classified, privileged, proprietary, financial, and medical records; or to the privacy rights established by The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, or other law that is deemed unacceptable when making risk management determinations.


*U.S. National.* Defined in U.S. OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12” (available at *http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/final_credentialing_standards.pdf*).




