# § 300.154   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) *General.* The owner and operator of a vessel subject to this subpart are responsible for complying with all recordkeeping and reporting requirements in this part in a timely and accurate manner. Reports and records required by this subpart must be in English, in the formats specified, and unless otherwise specified, based on Greenwich mean time (GMT). 


(b) *Vessel permit abstract report.* (1) The owner and operator of a vessel subject to this subpart must submit to NMFS Headquarters a permit abstract report containing the following information: 


(i) Vessel name. 


(ii) Russian Federation permit number. 


(iii) Duration of permit (e.g., 1/1/91-12/31/91). 


(iv) Authorized areas of fishing operations in geographic coordinates. 


(v) Authorized catch quota in tons. 


(vi) Authorized fishing gear. 


(vii) Type of permit (e.g., catcher). 


(2) The report must be faxed to (301) 713-2313 within 5 calendar days of receipt of the Russian permit. 


(c) *Activity reports.* The owner and operator of a vessel subject to this subpart must submit to the Regional Administrator by telefax to (907) 586-7313, the following reports: 


(1) *Depart Report* (Action code DEPART). At least 24 hours before the vessel departs from the EEZ for the Russian EZ, NMFS must receive the following information: 


(i) The date (month and day), and time (hour and minute GMT), and position (latitude and longitude to the nearest degree and minute), at which the vessel will depart the EEZ for the Russian EZ. 


(ii) The weight in metric tons (to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton) of all fish and fish product (listed by species and product codes) on board the vessel at the time it will depart the EEZ. 


(2) *Return Report (Action code RETURN).* At least 24 hours before a vessel that has been in the Russian EZ enters the EEZ, NMFS must receive the following information: 


(i) The date (month and day), time (hour and minute GMT), and position (latitude and longitude to the nearest degree and minute), at which the vessel will enter the EEZ. 


(ii) The weight in metric tons (to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton) of all fish and fish products (listed by species and product codes) on board the vessel at the time it will enter the EEZ, and the areas (Russian EZ, U.S. EEZ, or other) in which such fish products were harvested or received. 


(3) All reports must specify: The appropriate action code (“DEPART” or “RETURN”); the vessel's name and international radio call sign (IRCS); the sender's name and telephone number, and FAX, TELEX, and COMSAT numbers; the date (month and day) and time (hour and minute GMT) that the report is submitted to NMFS; and the intended date and U.S. port of landing. A list of species and product codes may be obtained from the Regional Administrator. 


(d) *Recordkeeping.* The owner and operator of a vessel subject to this subpart must retain all copies of all reports required by this subpart on board the vessel for 1 year after the end of the calendar year in which the report was generated. The owner and operator must retain and make such records available for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer at any time for 3 years after the end of the calendar year in which the report was generated, whether or not such records on board the vessel. 



---

[N] [61 FR 35550, July 5, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 59305, Sept. 26, 2011]




