# ยง 9004.11   Winding down costs.

(a) *Winding down costs. Winding down costs* are costs associated with the termination of the candidate's general election campaign such as complying with the post-election requirements of the Federal Election Campaign Act and the Presidential Election Campaign Fund Act, and other necessary administrative costs associated with ending the campaign, including office space rental, staff salaries, and office supplies. Winding down costs are qualified campaign expenses. 


(b) *Winding down limitation.* The total amount of winding down costs that may be paid for with public funds shall not exceed the lesser of: 


(1) 2.5% of the expenditure limitation pursuant to 11 CFR 110.8(a)(2); or 


(2) 2.5% of the total of: 


(i) The candidate's expenditures subject to the expenditure limitation as of the end of the expenditure report period; plus 


(ii) The candidate's expenses exempt from the expenditure limitation as of the end of the expenditure report period; except that 


(iii) The winding down limitation shall be no less than $100,000. 


(c) *Allocation of primary and general election winding down costs.* A candidate who runs in both the primary and general election may divide winding down expenses between his or her primary and general election committees using any reasonable allocation method. An allocation method is reasonable if it divides the total winding down costs between the primary and general election committees and results in no less than one third of total winding down costs allocated to each committee. A candidate may demonstrate that an allocation method is reasonable even if either the primary or the general election committee is allocated less than one third of total winding down costs.



---

[N] [68 FR 47416, Aug. 8, 2003]




