# ยง 1220.312   Remittance of assessments and submission of reports to United Soybean Board or Qualified State Soybean Board.

(a) Each first purchaser and each producer responsible for the remittance of assessments shall remit assessments and submit a report of assessments to the Qualified State Soybean Board in the State in which each first purchaser or each producer responsible for the remittance of assessments is located or if there is no Qualified State Soybean Board in such State, then to the United Soybean Board as provided in this section.


(b) First purchasers and producers responsible for remitting assessments shall remit assessments and reports on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the State or region in which the first purchasers or producers are located. The reporting period for each State and region shall be as follows:


(c) *Reports.* Each first purchaser or producer responsible for remitting assessments shall make reports on forms made available by the United Soybean Board or on Qualified State Soybean Board forms which contain the information required in ยง 1220.241 and are approved by the Board. A first purchaser with multiple facilities or purchasing locations within a State shall have the option to submit a single, consolidated report specifying the combined volume of soybeans purchased or the net market value of all soybeans purchased from the producers in the State. Reports shall be submitted with assessments due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Remittances.* Each first purchaser or producer responsible for remitting assessments shall remit all assessments to the Qualified State Soybean Board, its designee, or the United Soybean Board. All assessments shall be remitted in the form of a check or money order payable to the order of the applicable Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board and shall be sent to the designated address not later than the last day of the month following the month or quarter in which the soybeans, processed soybeans, or soybean products were marketed and shall be accompanied by the reports required by paragraph (c) of this section. All remittances shall be received subject to collection and payment at par. 


(e) *Receipt of Reports and Remittances.* The timeliness of receipt of reports and assessments by the Board or Qualified State Soybean Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Board or the Qualified State Soybean Board whichever is earlier.



---

[N] [57 FR 29439, July 2, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 40732, July 30, 1993; 60 FR 58500, Nov. 28, 1995; 68 FR 69954, Dec. 16, 2003]




