# § 522.90a   Ampicillin trihydrate suspension.

(a) *Specifications.* (1) Each milliliter contains ampicillin trihydrate equivalent to 200 milligrams (mg) of ampicillin.


(2) Each milliliter contains ampicillin trihydrate equivalent to 150 mg of ampicillin.


(b) *Sponsors.* See sponsor numbers in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(1) No. 054771 for use of product described in paragraph (a)(1) as in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3)(i)(A), (d)(3)(ii)(A), (d)(3)(iii), and (d)(4) of this section.


(2) No. 054771 for use of product described in paragraph (a)(2) as in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(B), (d)(3)(ii)(B), and (d)(3)(iii) of this section.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.40 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* For enteritis: 3 mg per pound of body weight, intramuscularly, once or twice daily, for up to 3 days. For pneumonia: 3 mg per pound of body weight, intramuscularly, twice daily, for up to 3 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of bacterial enteritis in calves caused by *Escherichia coli* and bacterial pneumonia caused by *Pasteurella* spp. susceptible to ampicillin.


(iii) *Limitations.* Treated animals must not be slaughtered for food use during treatment or for 9 days after the last treatment. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Swine*—(i) *Amount.* 3 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection, once or twice daily, for up to 3 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Treatment of bacterial enteritis (colibacillosis) caused by *E. coli* and bacterial pneumonia caused by *Pasteurella* spp. susceptible to ampicillin.


(iii) *Limitations.* Treated animals must not be slaughtered for food use during treatment or for 15 days after the last treatment. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(3) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* (A) 3 to 6 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection, once or twice daily. Usual treatment is 3 to 5 days.


(B) 3 to 5 mg of ampicillin per pound of body weight, once a day for up to 4 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* (A) Treatment of respiratory tract infections due to *E. coli, Pseudomonas* spp., *Proteus* spp., *Staphylococcus* spp., and *Streptococcus* spp.; tonsillitis due to *E. coli, Pseudomonas* spp., *Streptococcus* spp., and *Staphylococcus* spp.; generalized infections (septicemia) associated with abscesses, lacerations, and wounds due to *Staphylococcus* spp. and *Streptococcus* spp.


(B) Treatment of bacterial infections of the upper respiratory tract (tonsillitis) due to *Streptococcus* spp., *Staphylococcus* spp., *E. coli, Proteus* spp., and *Pasteurella* spp., and soft tissue infections (abscesses, lacerations, and wounds) due to *Staphylococcus* spp., *Streptococcus* spp., and *E. coli,* when caused by susceptible organisms.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(4) *Cats*—(i) *Amount.* 5 to 10 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, once or twice daily. Usual treatment is 3 to 5 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Treatment of generalized infections (septicemia) associated with abscesses, lacerations, and wounds due to *Staphylococcus* spp., *Streptococcus* spp., and *Pasteurella* spp.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [79 FR 16183, Mar. 25, 2014]




