# § 1304.3   Definitions.

(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1304.


(b) *Asbestos* means a group of mineral fibers composed of hydrated silicates, oxygen, hydrogen, and other elements such as sodium, iron, magnesium, and calcium in diverse combinations and are: Amosite, chrysotile, crocidolite, anthophyllite asbestos, actinolite asbestos, and tremolite asbestos.


(c) *Free-form asbestos* is that which is not bound, or otherwise “locked-in” to a product by resins or other bonding agents, or which can readily become airborne with any reasonably foreseeable use.


(d) *Patching compounds* are mixtures of talc, pigments, clays, casein, ground marble, mica or other similar materials and a binding material such as asbestos which are sold in a dry form ready to be mixed with water, or such combinations in ready-mix paste form.


(e) *Consumer patching compounds* are those that are customarily produced or distributed for sale to or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of consumers in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise. The Commission considers that patching compounds for application in these consumer environments are either distributed for sale to or are for the personal use or enjoyment of consumers.


(f) *Intentionally-added asbestos* is asbestos which is (1) added deliberately as an ingredient intended to impart specific characteristics; or, (2) contained in the final product as the result of knowingly using a raw material containing asbestos. Whenever a manufacturer finds out that the finished product contains asbestos, the manufacturer will be considered as knowingly using a raw material containing asbestos, unless the manufacturer takes steps to reduce the asbestos to the maximum extent feasible.


(g) *Initial introduction into commerce* occurs when the manufacturer ships a product covered by this regulation from a facility of the manufacturer to a distributor, retailer, or user.




