# ยง 155.600   Definitions and general requirements.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this subpart, the following terms have the following meaning:


*Applicant* means an individual who is seeking an exemption for him or herself through an application submitted to the Exchange.


*Application filer* means an applicant, an individual who is liable for the shared responsibility payment in accordance with section 5000A of the Code for an applicant, an authorized representative, or if the applicant is a minor or incapacitated, someone acting responsibly for an applicant.


*Exemption* means an exemption from the shared responsibility payment.


*Health care sharing ministry* has the same meaning as it does in section 5000A(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Code.


*Indian tribe* has the same meaning as it does in section 45A(c)(6) of the Code.


*Required contribution* has the same meaning as it does in section 5000A(e)(1)(B) of the Code.


*Required contribution percentage* means the product of eight percent and the rate of premium growth over the rate of income growth for the calendar year, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent.


*Shared responsibility payment* means the payment imposed with respect to a non-exempt individual who does not maintain minimum essential coverage in accordance with section 5000A(b) of the Code.


*Tax filer* has the same meaning as it does in ยง 155.300(a).


(b) *Attestation.* For the purposes of this subpart, any attestation that an applicant is to provide under this subpart may be made by the application filer on behalf of the applicant.


(c) *Reasonably compatible.* For purposes of this subpart, the Exchange must consider information through electronic data sources, other information provided by the applicant, or other information in the records of the Exchange to be reasonably compatible with an applicant's attestation if the difference or discrepancy does not impact the eligibility of the applicant for the exemption or exemptions for which he or she applied.


(d) *Accessibility.* Information, including notices, forms, and applications, must be provided to applicants in accordance with the standards specified in ยง 155.205(c).


(e) *Notices.* Any notice required to be sent by the Exchange to an individual in accordance with this subpart must be provided in accordance with the standards specified in ยง 155.230.



---

[N] [78 FR 39523, July 1, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 30349, May 27, 2014]




