# § 1.467-7   Section 467 recapture and other rules relating to dispositions and modifications.

(a) *Section 467 recapture.* Notwithstanding any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a lessor disposing of property in a transaction to which this paragraph (a) applies must recognize the recapture amount (determined under paragraph (b) of this section) and treat that amount as ordinary income. This paragraph (a) applies to any disposition of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement that—


(1) Is a leaseback (as defined in § 1.467-3(b)(2)) or a long-term agreement (as defined in § 1.467-3(b)(3));


(2) Is not disqualified under § 1.467-3(b)(1); and


(3) Allocates to any rental period fixed rent that, when annualized, exceeds the annualized fixed rent allocated to any preceding rental period.


(b) *Recapture amount*—(1) *In general.* The recapture amount for a disposition is the lesser of—


(i) The prior understated inclusion (determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section); or


(ii) The section 467 gain (determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section).


(2) *Prior understated inclusion.* The prior understated inclusion is the excess (if any) of—


(i) The aggregate amount of section 467 rent and section 467 interest for the period during which the lessor held the property, determined as if the section 467 rental agreement were a disqualified leaseback or long-term agreement subject to constant rental accrual under § 1.467-3; over


(ii) The aggregate amount of section 467 rent and section 467 interest accrued by the lessor during that period.


(3) *Section 467 gain*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the section 467 gain is the excess (if any) of—


(A) The amount realized from the disposition; over


(B) The sum of the adjusted basis of the property and the amount of any gain from the disposition that is treated as ordinary income under any provision of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 467(c) (for example, section 1245 or 1250).


(ii) *Certain dispositions.* In the case of a disposition that is not a sale or exchange, the section 467 gain is the excess (if any) of the fair market value of the property on the date of disposition over the amount determined under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section.


(c) *Special rules*—(1) *Gifts.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to a disposition by gift. However, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section for dispositions by transferees. If a disposition is in part a sale or exchange and in part a gift, paragraph (a) of this section applies to the disposition but the prior understated inclusion is determined by taking into account only section 467 rent and section 467 interest properly allocable to the portion of the property not disposed of by gift.


(2) *Dispositions at death.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to a disposition if the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee is determined under section 1014(a) or section 1022. However, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section for dispositions of property subject to section 1022 by transferees. This paragraph (c)(2) does not apply to property that constitutes a right to receive an item of income in respect of a decedent. See sections 691, 1014(c), and 1022(f).


(3) *Certain tax-free exchanges*—(i) *In general.* The recapture amount in the case of a disposition to which this paragraph (c)(3) applies is limited to the amount of gain recognized to the transferor (determined without regard to paragraph (a) of this section), reduced by the amount of any gain from the disposition that is treated as ordinary income under any provision of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 467(c). However, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section for dispositions by transferees.


(ii) *Dispositions covered*—(A) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, this paragraph (c)(3) applies to a disposition of property if the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor by reason of the application of section 332, 351, 361, 721, or 731.


(B) *Transfers to certain tax-exempt organizations.* This paragraph (c)(3) does not apply to a disposition to an organization (other than a cooperative described in section 521) which is exempt from tax imposed by chapter 1, subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code (a tax-exempt entity) except to the extent the property is used in an activity the income from which is subject to tax under section 511(a) (a section 511(a) activity). However, if assets used to any extent in a section 511(a) activity are disposed of by the tax-exempt entity, then, notwithstanding any other provision of law (except section 1031 or section 1033) the recapture amount with respect to such disposition, to the extent attributable under paragraph (c)(4) of this section to the period of the transferor's ownership of the property prior to the first disposition, shall be included in the tax-exempt entity's unrelated business taxable income. To the extent that the tax-exempt entity ceases to use the property in a section 511(a) activity, the entity will be treated for purposes of this paragraph (c)(3) and paragraph (c)(4) of this section as having disposed of the property to such extent on the date of the cessation.


(4) *Dispositions by transferee.* If the recapture amount with respect to a disposition of property (the first disposition) is limited under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(3) of this section, or under paragraph (c)(2) of this section because the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee is determined under section 1022, and the transferee subsequently disposes of the property in a transaction to which paragraph (a) of this section applies, the prior understated inclusion determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is computed by taking into account the amounts attributable to the period of the transferor's ownership of the property prior to the first disposition. Thus, for example, the section 467 rent and section 467 interest that would have been taken into account by the transferee if the section 467 rental agreement were a disqualified leaseback or long-term agreement subject to constant rental accrual include the amounts that would have been taken into account by the transferor, and the aggregate amount of section 467 rent and section 467 interest accrued by the transferee includes the aggregate amount of section 467 rent and section 467 interest that was taken into account by the transferor. The prior understated inclusion determined under this paragraph (c)(4) must be reduced by any recapture amount taken into account under paragraph (a) of this section by the transferor.


(5) *Like-kind exchanges and involuntary conversions.* If property is disposed of or converted and, before the application of paragraph (a) of this section, gain is not recognized in whole or in part under section 1031 or 1033, then the amount of section 467 gain taken into account by the lessor is limited to the sum of—


(i) The amount of gain recognized on the disposition or conversion of the property (determined without regard to paragraph (a) of this section); and


(ii) The fair market value of property acquired that is not subject to the same section 467 rental agreement and that is not taken into account under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section.


(6) *Installment sales.* In the case of an installment sale of property to which paragraph (a) of this section applies—


(i) The recapture amount is recognized and treated as ordinary income in the year of the disposition; and


(ii) Any gain in excess of the recapture amount is reported under the installment method of accounting if and to the extent that method is otherwise available under section 453.


(7) *Dispositions covered by section 170(e), 341(e)(12), or 751(c).* For purposes of sections 170(e), 341(e)(12), and 751(c), amounts treated as ordinary income under paragraph (a) of this section must be treated in the same manner as amounts treated as ordinary income under section 1245 or 1250.


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. In each of these examples the transferor of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement is entitled to the rent for the day of the disposition. The examples are as follows: 


(e) *Other rules relating to dispositions*—(1) *In general.* If there is a sale, exchange, or other disposition of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement (the transfer), the section 467 rent and, if applicable, section 467 interest for a period are taken into account by the owner of the property during the period. The following rules apply in determining the section 467 rent and section 467 interest for the portion of the rental period ending immediately prior to the transfer:


(i) The section 467 rent and section 467 interest for the portion of the rental period ending immediately prior to the transfer are a pro rata portion of the section 467 rent and the section 467 interest, respectively, for the rental period. Such amounts are also taken into account in determining the transferor's section 467 loan balance, prior to any adjustment thereof that may be required under paragraph (h) of this section, immediately before the transfer.


(ii) If the transferor of the property is entitled to the rent for the day of transfer, the transfer is treated as occurring at the end of the day of the transfer.


(iii) If the transferee of the property is entitled to the rent for the day of transfer, the transfer is treated as occurring at the beginning of the day of the transfer.


(2) *Treatment of section 467 loan.* If there is a transfer described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the following rules apply in determining the transferor's and the transferee's section 467 loans for the period after the transfer, the amount realized by the transferor, and the transferee's basis in the property:


(i) The beginning balance of the transferor's section 467 loan is equal to the net present value at the time of the transfer (but after giving effect to the transfer) of all subsequent amounts payable as fixed rent and interest on fixed rent to the transferor and all subsequent amounts payable as interest on prepaid fixed rent by the transferor. The transferor must continue to take into account interest on the transferor's section 467 loan balance after the date of the transfer.


(ii) The beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan is equal to the principal balance of the transferor's section 467 loan immediately before the transfer reduced (below zero, if appropriate) by the beginning balance of the transferor's section 467 loan. Amounts payable to the transferor are not taken into account in adjusting the transferee's section 467 loan balance.


(iii) If the beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan is negative, the transferor and transferee must treat the balance as a liability that is either assumed in connection with the transfer of the property or secured by the property acquired subject to the liability. If the beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan is positive, the transferor and transferee must treat the balance as an additional asset acquired in connection with the transfer of the property. In the case of a positive beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan, the transferee will have an initial cost basis in the section 467 loan equal to the lesser of the beginning balance of the loan or the aggregate consideration for the transfer of the property subject to the section 467 rental agreement and the transfer of the transferor's interest in the section 467 loan.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (e). In each of these examples the transferor of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement is entitled to the rent for the day of the transfer. The examples are as follows: 


(f) *Treatment of assignments by lessee and lessee-financed renewals*—(1) *Substitute lessee use.* If a lessee assigns its interest in a section 467 rental agreement to a substitute lessee, or if a period when a substitute lessee has the use of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement is otherwise included in the lease term under § 1.467-1(h)(6), the section 467 rent for a period is taken into account by the person having the use of the property during the period. The following rules apply in determining the section 467 rent and section 467 interest for the portion of the rental period ending immediately prior to the assignment:


(i) The section 467 rent and section 467 interest for the portion of the rental period ending immediately prior to the assignment are a pro rata portion of the section 467 rent and the section 467 interest, respectively, for the rental period. Such amounts are also taken into account in determining the lessee's section 467 loan balance, prior to any adjustment thereof that may be required under paragraph (h) of this section, immediately before the substitute lessee first has use of the property.


(ii) If the lessee is liable for the rent for the day that the substitute lessee first has use of the property, the substitute lessee's use shall be treated as beginning at the end of that day.


(iii) If the substitute lessee is liable for the rent for the day that the substitute lessee first has use of the property, the substitute lessee's use shall be treated as beginning at the beginning of that day.


(2) *Treatment of section 467 loan.* If, as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a lessee assigns its interest in a section 467 rental agreement to a substitute lessee or a period when a substitute lessee has the use of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement is otherwise included in the lease term under § 1.467-1(h)(6), the following rules apply in determining the amount of the lessee's and the substitute lessee's section 467 loans for the period when the substitute lessee has use of the property and in computing the taxable income of the lessee and substitute lessee:


(i) The beginning balance of the lessee's section 467 loan is equal to the net present value, as of the time the substitute lessee first has use of the property (but after giving effect to the transfer of the right to use the property), of all amounts subsequently payable by the lessee as fixed rent and interest on fixed rent and all amounts subsequently payable as interest on prepaid fixed rent to the lessee. For purposes of this paragraph (f), any amount otherwise payable by the lessee is not treated as an amount subsequently payable by the lessee to the extent that such payment, if made by the lessee, would give rise to a right of contribution or other similar claim against the substitute lessee or any other person. The lessee must continue to take into account interest on the lessee's section 467 loan balance after the substitute lessee first has use of the property.


(ii) The beginning balance of the substitute lessee's section 467 loan is equal to the principal balance of the lessee's section 467 loan immediately before the substitute lessee first has use of the property reduced (below zero, if appropriate) by the beginning balance of the lessee's section 467 loan. Amounts payable by the lessee to any person other than the substitute lessee (or a related person) or payable to the lessee by any person other than the substitute lessee (or a related person) are not taken into account in adjusting the substitute lessee's section 467 loan balance.


(iii) If the beginning balance of the substitute lessee's section 467 loan is positive, the beginning balance is treated as—


(A) Gross receipts of the lessee for the taxable year in which the substitute lessee first has use of the property; and


(B) A liability that is either assumed in connection with the transfer of the leasehold interest to the substitute lessee or secured by property acquired subject to the liability.


(iv) If the beginning balance of the substitute lessee's section 467 loan is negative, the following rules apply:


(A) If the principal balance of the lessee's section 467 loan immediately before the substitute lessee first has use of the property was negative, any consideration paid by the substitute lessee to the lessee in conjunction with the transfer of the use of the property shall be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the lessee to the extent that—


(*1*) The consideration does not exceed the amount owed to the lessee under the lessee's section 467 loan balance immediately before the substitute lessee first has use of the property; and


(*2*) The lessee has basis in the principal balance of the lessee's section 467 loan immediately before the substitute lessee first has use of the property.


(B) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(D) of this section, the excess, if any, of the beginning balance of the amount owed to the substitute lessee under the section 467 loan, over any consideration paid by the substitute lessee to the lessee in conjunction with the transfer of the use of the property, is treated as an amount incurred by the lessee for the taxable year in which the substitute lessee first has use of the property.


(C) To the extent the beginning balance of the amount owed to the substitute lessee under the section 467 loan exceeds any consideration paid by the substitute lessee to the lessee in conjunction with the transfer of the use of the property, repayments of the beginning balance are items of gross income of the substitute lessee in the taxable year in which repayment occurs (determined by applying any repayment first to the beginning balance of the substitute lessee's section 467 loan).


(D) Any amount incurred by the lessee under paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(B) of this section with respect to a transfer of the use of property (the current transfer) shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the extent that the lessee, in its capacity, if any, as a substitute lessee with respect to an earlier transfer of the use of the property would have recognized additional gross income under paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(C) of this section if the current transfer had not occurred.


(v) For purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, repayments occur as the negative balance is amortized through the net accrual of rent and negative interest.


(3) *Lessor use.* If a period when the lessor has the use of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement is included in the lease term under § 1.467-1(h)(6), the section 467 rent for the period is not taken into account and the lessor is treated as a substitute lessee for purposes of this paragraph (f).


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (f). In each of these examples, the substitute lessee is liable for the rent for the day on which the substitute lessee first has use of the property subject to the section 467 rental agreement. Further, assume that in each example the lessee assignment is not a substantial modification under § 1.467-1(f). The examples are as follows: 


(g) *Application of section 467 following a rental agreement modification*—(1) *Substantial modifications.* The following rules apply to any substantial modification of a rental agreement occurring after May 18, 1999 unless the entire agreement (as modified) is treated as a single agreement under § 1.467-1(f)(4)(vi):


(i) *Treatment of pre-modification items.* The lessor and lessee must take pre-modification items (within the meaning of § 1.467-1(f)(5)(v)) into account under their method of accounting used before the modification to report income and expense attributable to the rental agreement.


(ii) *Computations with respect to post-modification items.* In computing section 467 rent, section 467 interest, and the amount of the section 467 loan with respect to post-modification items—


(A) Post-modification items are treated as provided under a rental agreement (the post-modification agreement) separate from the agreement under which pre-modification items are provided;


(B) The lease term of the post-modification agreement begins at the beginning of the first period for which rent other than pre-modification rent is provided; and


(C) The applicable Federal rate for the post-modification agreement is the applicable Federal rate in effect on the day on which the modification occurs.


(iii) *Adjustments*—(A) *Adjustment relating to certain prepayments.* If any payments before the beginning of the lease term of the post-modification agreement are post-modification items, the lessor and lessee must take into account, in the taxable year in which the modification occurs, any adjustment necessary to prevent duplication with respect to such payments or the omission of interest thereon for periods before the beginning of the lease term.


(B) *Adjustment relating to retroactive beginning of lease term.* If the lease term of a post-modification agreement begins before the date on which the modification occurs, the lessor and lessee must take into account in the taxable year in which the modification occurs any amount necessary to prevent the duplication or omission of rent or interest for the period after the beginning of the lease term of the post-modification agreement and before the beginning of the taxable year in which the modification occurs. For this purpose, the amount necessary to prevent duplication or omission is determined after taking into account any adjustments required by the Commissioner for taxable years ending prior to the beginning of the taxable year in which the modification occurs. In determining any adjustments required by the Commissioner for taxable years ending prior to the beginning of the taxable year in which the modification occurs, the Commissioner will disregard the modification.


(iv) *Coordination with rules relating to dispositions and assignments*—(A) *Dispositions.* If the modification involves a sale, exchange, or other disposition of the property subject to the rental agreement—


(*1*) Adjustments required under this paragraph (g) are taken into account before applying paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (e) of this section;


(*2*) The prior understated inclusion for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section is the sum of the prior understated inclusion with respect to pre-modification items and the prior understated inclusion with respect to post-modification items; and


(*3*) Paragraph (e) of this section applies separately with respect to pre-modification items and post-modification items.


(B) *Assignments.* If the modification involves an assignment of the lessee's interest in the rental agreement to a substitute lessee or a substitute lessee having use of the property during a period otherwise included in the lease term—


(*1*) Adjustments required under this paragraph (g) are taken into account before applying paragraph (f) of this section; and


(*2*) Paragraph (f) of this section applies separately with respect to pre-modification items and post-modification items.


(2) *Other modifications.* The following rules apply to a modification (other than a substantial modification) of a rental agreement occurring after May 18, 1999:


(i) *Computation of section 467 loan for modified agreement.* The amount of the section 467 loan relating to the agreement is computed as of the effective date of the modification. The section 467 rent and section 467 interest for periods before the effective date of the modification are determined, solely for purposes of computing the amount of the section 467 loan, under the terms of the entire agreement (as modified).


(ii) *Change in balance of section 467 loan.* (A) If the balance of the section 467 loan determined under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section is greater than the balance of the section 467 loan immediately before the effective date of the modification, the difference is taken into account, in the taxable year in which the modification occurs, as additional rent.


(B) If the balance of the section 467 loan determined under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section is less than the balance of the section 467 loan immediately before the effective date of the modification, the difference is taken into account, in the taxable year in which the modification occurs, as a reduction of the rent previously taken into account by the lessor and lessee.


(C) For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2)(ii), a negative balance is less than a positive balance, a zero balance, or any other negative balance that is closer to a zero balance.


(iii) *Section 467 rent and interest after the modification.* The section 467 rent and section 467 interest for periods after the effective date of the modification are determined under the terms of the entire agreement (as modified).


(iv) *Applicable Federal rate.* The applicable Federal rate for the agreement does not change as a result of the modification.


(v) *Modification effective within a rental period.* If the effective date of a modification does not coincide with the beginning or end of a rental period under the agreement in effect before the modification, the section 467 rent and section 467 interest for the portion of the rental period ending immediately prior to the effective date of the modification are a pro rata portion of the section 467 rent and the section 467 interest, respectively, for the rental period. Such amounts are also taken into account in determining the section 467 loan balance, prior to any adjustment thereof that may be required under paragraph (h) of this section, immediately before the effective date of the modification. Similar rules apply with respect to the section 467 rent and section 467 interest determined under the terms of the entire agreement (as modified) for purposes of computing the amount of the section 467 loan under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and the section 467 rent and section 467 interest for a partial rental period beginning on the effective date of the modification.


(vi) *Other adjustments.* The lessor and lessee must take into account, in the taxable year in which a retroactive modification occurs, any amount necessary to prevent the duplication or omission of rent or interest for the period before the beginning of the taxable year in which the modification occurs.


(vii) *Coordination with rules relating to dispositions and assignments.* If the modification involves a sale, exchange, or other disposition of the property subject to the rental agreement, an assignment of the lessee's interest in the rental agreement to a substitute lessee or a substitute lessee having use of the property during a period otherwise included in the lease term, adjustments required under this paragraph (g) are taken into account before applying paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f) of this section.


(viii) *Exception for agreements entered into prior to effective date of section 467.* This paragraph (g)(2) does not apply to a modification of a rental agreement that is not subject to section 467 because of the effective date provisions of section 92(c) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-369 (98 Stat. 612)).


(3) *Adjustment by Commissioner.* If the entire agreement (as modified) is treated as a single agreement under § 1.467-1(f)(4)(vi), the Commissioner may require adjustments to taxable income to reflect the effect of the modification, including adjustments that are similar to those required under paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(4) *Effective date of modification.* The effective date of a modification of a rental agreement occurs at the earliest of—


(i) The date on which the modification occurs;


(ii) The beginning of the first period for which the amount of rent or interest provided under the entire agreement (as modified) differs from the amount of rent or interest provided under the agreement in effect before the modification;


(iii) The due date of the first payment, under either the entire agreement (as modified) or the agreement in effect before the modification, that is not identical, in due date and amount, under both such agreements;


(iv) The date, in the case of a modification involving the substitution of a new lessor, on which the property subject to the rental agreement is transferred; or


(v) The date, in the case of a modification involving the substitution of a new lessee, on which the substitute lessee first has use of the property subject to the rental agreement.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (g):


(h) *Omissions or duplications*—(1) *In general.* In applying the rules of this section in conjunction with the rules of §§ 1.467-1 through 1.467-5, adjustments must be made to the extent necessary to prevent the omission or duplication of items of income, deduction, gain, or loss. For example, if a transferee lessor acquires property subject to a section 467 rental agreement at other than the beginning or end of a rental period, and the transferee lessor's beginning section 467 loan balance differs from the transferor lessor's section 467 loan balance immediately prior to the transfer, it will be necessary to treat the rental period that includes the day of transfer as consisting of two rental periods, one beginning at the beginning of the rental period that includes the day of transfer and ending with or immediately prior to the transfer and one beginning with or immediately after the transfer and ending immediately prior to the beginning of the succeeding rental period. Because the substitution of two rental periods for one rental period may change the proportional rental amount or constant rental amount, the change in rental periods should be treated as a modification of the rental agreement that occurs immediately prior to the transfer. The change in rental periods, by itself, is not treated as a substantial modification of the rental agreement although the substitution of a new lessor may constitute a substantial modification of the rental agreement. Likewise, § 1.467-1(j)(2), which provides rules regarding when amounts are treated as payable, is designed to simplify calculations of present values, section 467 loan balances, and proportional and constant rental amounts. These simplifying conventions assume that there will be no change in the lessor or lessee under a section 467 rental agreement and that the terms of the section 467 rental agreement will not be modified. Therefore, as illustrated in the example in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, when actual events do not reflect these assumptions, it may be necessary to alter the application of these rules to properly reflect taxable income.


(2) *Example.* The following example illustrates an application of this paragraph (h):



---

[N] [T.D. 8820, 64 FR 26867, May 18, 1999, as amended by T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6238, Jan. 19, 2017]




