# ยง 219.209   Reports of tests and refusals.

(a)(1) A railroad that has experienced one or more events for which specimens were obtained must provide prompt telephonic notification summarizing such events. Notification must immediately be provided to the duty officer at the National Response Center (NRC) at (800) 424-8802 and to the Office of Safety, FRA, at (202) 493-6313.


(2) Each telephonic report must contain:


(i) Name of railroad;


(ii) Name, title and telephone number of person making the report;


(iii) Time, date and location of the accident/incident;


(iv) Brief summary of the circumstances of the accident/incident, including basis for testing (*e.g.,* impact accident with a reportable injury); and


(v) Number of employees tested.


(b) If a railroad is unable, as a result of non-cooperation of an employee or for any other reason, to obtain a specimen and provide it to FRA as required by this subpart, the railroad must immediately notify the FRA Drug and Alcohol Program Manager at 202-493-6313 and provide detailed information regarding the failure (either verbally or via a voicemail). The railroad must also provide a concise narrative written report of the reason for such failure and, if appropriate, any action taken in response to the cause of such failure. This report must be appended to the report of the accident/incident required to be submitted under part 225 of this chapter and must also be mailed to the FRA Drug and Alcohol Program Manager at 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590.



---

[N] [66 FR 41973, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 81 FR 37933, June 10, 2016]




