# § 10.1009   Certification for goods exported to Korea.

(a) *Submission of certification to CBP.* Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Korea must provide a copy of the certification (written or electronic) to CBP upon request.


(b) *Notification of errors in certification.* Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Korea and who has reason to believe that the certification contains or is based on incorrect information must promptly notify every person to whom the certification was provided of any change that could affect the accuracy or validity of the certification. Notification of an incorrect certification must also be given either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to CBP specifying the correction (*see* §§ 10.1032 and 10.1033 of this subpart).


(c) *Maintenance of records*—(1) *General.* Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Korea must maintain, for a period of at least five years after the date the certification was issued, all records and supporting documents relating to the origin of a good for which the certification was issued, including the certification or copies thereof and records and documents associated with:


(i) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, the good;


(ii) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, all materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and


(iii) The production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.


(2) *Method of maintenance.* The records referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be maintained as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.


(3) *Availability of records.* For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this part, the records required to be maintained under this section must be stored and made available for examination and inspection by the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer in the same manner as provided in part 163 of this chapter.



---

[N] [77 FR 15948, Mar. 19, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 32358, May 30, 2013]




