# § 94.104   Allocation of sub-awards.

(a) *Directed allocation of forty percent overall.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each SAA shall allocate each year's VOCA grant as specified below in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Where victims of priority category crimes are determined to be underserved as well, an SAA may count funds allocated to projects serving such victims in either the priority category or the underserved category, but not both.


(b) *Priority categories of crime victims (thirty percent total).* SAAs shall allocate a minimum of ten percent of each year's VOCA grant to each of the three priority categories of victims specified in the certification requirement in VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(a)(2)(A), which, as of July 8, 2016, includes victims of—


(1) Sexual assault,


(2) Spousal abuse and


(3) Child abuse.


(c) *Previously underserved category (ten percent total).* SAAs shall allocate a minimum of ten percent of each year's VOCA grant to underserved victims of violent crime, as specified in VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(a)(2)(B). To meet this requirement, SAAs shall identify which type of crime victim a service project assists by the type of crime they have experienced or the demographic characteristics of the crime victim, or both.


(d) *Exceptions to required allocations.* The Director may approve an allocation different from that specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, pursuant to a written request from the SAA that demonstrates (to the satisfaction of the Director) that there is good cause therefor.


(e) *Sub-award process: Documentation, conflicts of interest, and competition of funding to sub-recipients.* (1) SAAs have sole discretion to determine which organizations will receive funds, and in what amounts, subject to the requirements of VOCA, this subpart, and the provisions in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide relating to conflicts of interest. SAAs must maintain a documented methodology for selecting all competitive and non-competitive sub-recipients.


(2) SAAs are encouraged to award funds through a competitive process, when feasible. Typically, such a process entails an open solicitation of applications and a documented determination, based on objective criteria set in advance by the SAA (or pass-through entity, as applicable).


(f) *Direct-service projects run by SAAs.* An SAA may use no more than ten percent of its annual VOCA grant to fund its own direct service projects, unless the Director grants a waiver.



---

[N] [81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended by at FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]




