# § 206.118   Disposal of housing units.

(a) FEMA may sell temporary housing units purchased under § 206.117(b)(1)(ii), Temporary housing, direct assistance, as follows:


(1) *Sale to an occupant.* (i) FEMA may sell a temporary housing unit to the occupant, if they lack permanent housing and have a site that complies with local codes and ordinances and part 9 of this Title.


(ii) FEMA may approve adjustments to the sales price when selling a temporary housing unit to the occupant if the occupant is unable to pay the fair market value of the temporary housing unit and when doing so is in the best interest of the occupant and FEMA.


(iii) FEMA may sell a temporary housing unit to the occupant only on the condition that the purchaser agrees to obtain and maintain hazard insurance, as well as flood insurance on the temporary housing unit if it is or will be in a designated Special Flood Hazard Area.


(2) *Other methods of disposal.* (i) FEMA may sell, transfer, donate, or otherwise make a temporary housing unit available directly to a State or other governmental entity, or to a voluntary organization, for the sole purpose of providing temporary housing to eligible displaced applicants in major disasters and emergencies. As a condition of the sale, transfer, or donation, or other method of provision, the State, governmental entity, or voluntary organization must agree to:


(A) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5151; and


(B) Obtain and maintain hazard insurance on the temporary housing unit, as well as flood insurance if the housing unit is or will be in a designated Special Flood Hazard Area.


(ii) FEMA may also sell temporary housing units at a fair market value to any other person.


(b) A temporary housing unit will be sold “as is, where is”, except for repairs FEMA deems necessary to protect health or safety, which are to be completed before the sale. There will be no implied warranties. In addition, FEMA will inform the purchaser that they may have to bring the installation of the temporary housing unit up to codes and standards that are applicable at the proposed site.



---

[N] [89 FR 4123, Jan. 22, 2024]




