# § 512.190   Reconsideration review process.

(a) *Applicability of this section.* Section 512.190 is only applicable to the following:


(1) Innovation Center models that have waived section 1869 of the Act, or where section 1869 of the Act is not applicable for model participants.


(2) Model participants, unless the governing documentation for the Innovation Center model states otherwise.


(b) *Right to reconsideration.* The model participant may request reconsideration of a determination made by CMS in accordance with an Innovation Center model's governing documentation only if such reconsideration is not precluded by section 1115A(d)(2) of the Act, this subpart, or the governing documentation for the Innovation Center model for which CMS made the initial determination.


(1) A request for reconsideration by the model participant must satisfy all of the following criteria:


(i) Must be submitted to a designee of CMS (reconsideration official) who—


(A) Is authorized to receive such requests; and


(B) Did not participate in the determination that is the subject of the reconsideration request, or, if applicable, the timely error notice review process.


(ii)(A) Must include a copy of the initial determination issued by CMS; and


(B) Must contain a detailed, written explanation of the basis for the dispute, including supporting documentation.


(iii) Must be made within 30 days of the date of the initial determination for which reconsideration is being requested via email to an address as specified by CMS in the governing documentation for the Innovation Center model for which CMS made the initial determination.


(2) Requests that do not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are denied.


(3) Within 10 business days of receiving a request for reconsideration, the reconsideration official sends CMS and the model participant a written acknowledgement of receipt of the reconsideration request. This acknowledgement sets forth all of the following:


(i) The review procedures.


(ii) A schedule that permits each party to submit position papers and documentation in support of the party's position for consideration by the reconsideration official.


(4) If the request is regarding a model-specific payment and the governing documentation specifies an initial timely error notice process, the model participant must satisfy the timely error notice requirements specified in the governing documentation before submitting a reconsideration request under paragraph (b) of this section. In the event that the model participant fails to timely submit an error notice with respect to a particular model-specific payment, the reconsideration review process would not be available to the model participant with regard to that model-specific payment.


(c) *Standards for reconsideration.* (1) The parties must continue to fulfill all responsibilities and obligations under the governing documentation during the course of any dispute arising under the governing documentation.


(2) The reconsideration consists of a review of documentation that is submitted timely and in accordance with the standards specified by the reconsideration official and are enumerated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(3) The burden of proof is on the model participant to demonstrate to the reconsideration official with clear and convincing evidence that the determination is inconsistent with the terms of the governing documentation.


(d) *Reconsideration determination.* (1) The reconsideration determination is based solely upon both of the following:


(i) Position papers and supporting documentation that meet both of the following:


(A) Submitted timely to the reconsideration official in accordance with the schedule specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(B) The standards for submission under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) Documents and data that were timely submitted to CMS in the required format before CMS made the determination that is the subject of the reconsideration request.


(2)(i) The reconsideration official issues the reconsideration determination to CMS and to the model participant in writing.


(ii) Absent unusual circumstances, in which case the reconsideration official reserves the right to an extension upon written notice to the model participant, the reconsideration determination is issued within 60 days of receipt of timely filed position papers and supporting documentation in accordance with the schedule specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(3) The reconsideration determination is final and binding 30 days after its issuance, unless the model participant or CMS timely requests review of the reconsideration determination in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(e) *CMS Administrator review.* The model participant or CMS may request that the CMS Administrator review the reconsideration determination. The request must meet both of the following:


(1) Be made via email within 30 days of the date of the reconsideration determination to the address specified by CMS.


(2) Include a copy of the reconsideration determination and a detailed written explanation of why the model participant or CMS disagrees with the reconsideration determination.


(3) The CMS Administrator promptly sends the parties a written acknowledgement of receipt of the request for review.


(4) The CMS Administrator sends the parties notice of the following:


(i) Whether the request for review is granted or denied.


(ii) If the request for review is granted, the review procedures and a schedule that permits each party to submit a brief in support of the party's position for consideration by the CMS Administrator.


(4) If the request for review is denied, the reconsideration determination is final and binding as of the date the request for review is denied.


(5) If the request for review is granted all of the following occur:


(i) The record for review consists solely of—


(A) Timely submitted briefs and the evidence contained in the record of the proceedings before the reconsideration official; and


(B) Evidence as set forth in the documents and data described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.


(ii) The CMS Administrator reviews the record and issues to CMS and to the model participant a written determination.


(iii) The written determination of the CMS Administrator is final and binding as of the date the written determination is sent.



---

[N] [89 FR 96444, Dec. 4, 2024]


