# ยง 399.62   Target dates in hearing cases.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to initial and recommended decisions of administrative law judges, final decisions, and decisions on petitions for review or reconsideration in cases in which the Department has ordered a trial-type hearing before an administrative law judge. 


(b) *Issuance of target dates.* In cases to which this section applies, the Department or the administrative law judge, as the situation calls for, shall issue a notice of the target date for the completion of the initial or recommended decision, final decision, or decision on a petition for review or reconsideration. The Department or the administrative law judge shall endeavor to render the pending decision not later than the target date. 


(c) *Time for promulgating target dates.* (1) In the case of initial, recommended, or final decisions, notice of target dates shall be issued, served, and filed within 20 days of the submission of closing briefs, or the conclusion of oral argument to the administrative law judge or the Department, as may be appropriate. 


(2) In the case of petitions for review or for reconsideration, notices of target dates shall be issued, served, and filed within 20 days of the date for the filing of answers: *Provided,* That, in the case of petitions for reconsideration of Department decisions awarding new route authority, the Department shall, in lieu of issuing individual target dates, endeavor to render its decision no later than the day preceding the effective date of the new authority awarded.



---

[N] [PS-71, 41 FR 41407, Sept. 22, 1976, as amended by PS-73, 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977]




