# ยง 232.510   Commitment and commitment fee.

(a) *Issuance of commitment.* Upon approval of an application for insurance, a commitment shall be issued by the Commissioner setting forth the terms and conditions upon which the fire safety loan will be insured. 


(b) *Type of commitment.* The commitment will provide for the insurance of the loan after satisfactory completion of installation of the fire safety equipment, as determined by the Commissioner.


(c) *Term of commitment.* A commitment shall have a term as the Commissioner deems necessary for satisfactory completion of installation.


(d) *Commitment fee.* See 24 CFR 200.40(d)(2).


(e) *Increase in commitment prior to endorsement.* An application, filed prior to endorsement, for an increase in the amount of an outstanding firm commitment shall be accompanied by an additional application fee. The additional application fee shall be in an amount determined by the Secretary as equal to the amount determined under 24 CFR 200.40(d)(2), which shall not exceed $5.00 per thousand dollars of the amount of the requested increase. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount computed at the same dollar rate per thousand dollars of the amount of increase in commitment as was used for the inspection fee required in the original commitment. The additional inspection fee shall be paid prior to the date installation of fire safety equipment is begun, or, if installation has begun, it shall be paid with the application for increase.



---

[N] [39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]




