# ยง 172.245   Survival conditions.

A vessel is presumed to survive assumed damage if it meets the following conditions in the final stage of flooding: 


(a) *Final waterline.* The final waterline, in the final condition of sinkage, heel, and trim must be below the lower edge of an opening through which progressive flooding may take place, such as an air pipe, or an opening that is closed by means of a weathertight door or hatch cover. This opening does not include an opening closed by a: 


(1) Watertight manhole cover; 


(2) Flush scuttle; 


(3) Small watertight cargo tank hatch cover that maintains the high integrity of the deck; 


(4) Class 1 door in a watertight bulkhead; 


(5) Remotely operated sliding watertight door; 


(6) Side scuttle of the nonopening type; 


(7) Retractable inflatable seal; or 


(8) Guillotine door. 


(b) *Heel angle.* The maximum angle of heel must not exceed 15 degrees, except that this angle may be increased to 17 degrees if no deck edge immersion occurs. 


(c) *Range of stability.* Through an angle of 20 degrees beyond its position of equilibrium after flooding, a vessel must meet the following conditions: 


(1) The righting arm curve must be positive. 


(2) The maximum righting arm must be at least 4 inches (10 cm). 


(3) Each submerged opening must be weathertight 


(d) *Metacentric height.* After flooding, the metacentric height must be at least 2 inches (50 mm) when the vessel is in the equilibrium position. 


(e) *Progressive flooding.* In the design calculations required by ยง 172.225, progressive flooding between spaces connected by pipes, ducts or tunnels must be assumed unless: 


(1) Pipes within the assumed extent of damage are equipped with arrangements such as stop check valves to prevent progressive flooding to other spaces with which they connect; and, 


(2) Progressive flooding through ducts or tunnels is protected against by: 


(i) Retractable inflatable seals to cargo hopper gates; or 


(ii) Guillotine doors in bulkheads in way of the conveyor belt. 




