# § 331.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part—


*Home State* means, with respect to a State bank, the State by which the bank is chartered.


*Host State* means a State, other than the home State of a State bank, in which the State bank maintains a branch.


*Insured branch* has the same meaning as that term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813.


*Interest* means any payment compensating a creditor or prospective creditor for an extension of credit, making available a line of credit, or any default or breach by a borrower of a condition upon which credit was extended. Interest includes, among other things, the following fees connected with credit extension or availability: numerical periodic rates; late fees; creditor-imposed not sufficient funds (NSF) fees charged when a borrower tenders payment on a debt with a check drawn on insufficient funds; overlimit fees; annual fees; cash advance fees; and membership fees. It does not ordinarily include appraisal fees, premiums and commissions attributable to insurance guaranteeing repayment of any extension of credit, finders' fees, fees for document preparation or notarization, or fees incurred to obtain credit reports.


*Out-of-State State bank* means, with respect to any State, a State bank whose home State is another State.


*Rate on 90-day commercial paper* means the rate quoted by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors for 90-day A2/P2 nonfinancial commercial paper.


*State bank* has the same meaning as that term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813.




