# § 1005.223   Direct Guarantee Lender Annual recertification requirements.

(a) All Direct Guarantee Lenders are subject to annual recertification on a date and form as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(b) With each annual recertification, Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit updated contact information, continued eligibility documentation and other pertinent materials as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, including but not limited to:


(1) A certification that it has not been refused a license or sanctioned by any Tribe, State, or Federal entity or other governmental authority related to any lending activity;


(2) A certification that the Direct Guarantee Lender is in good standing with any Tribe, State, or Federal entity in which it will perform Direct Guarantee Lender activities; and


(3) Renewal documents and certification of continued eligibility from an authorizing entity listed in § 1005.203.


(4) Lenders approved under § 1005.205 must submit documentation supporting continued eligibility as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(c) All Sponsored Entities shall comply with this requirement and provide the annual recertification documentation directly to their Sponsor in accordance with their sponsorship agreement.


(d) Direct Guarantee Lenders must also submit the following in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance:


(1) A certification that the Direct Guarantee Lender continues to meet the direct guarantee program eligibility requirements in accordance with § 1005.209;


(2) A list of all Sponsored Entities with which the Direct Guarantee Lender has a sponsorship relationship, and a certification of their continued eligibility; and


(3) All reports.


(e) Direct Guarantee Lenders must retain documentation related to the continued eligibility of their Sponsored Entities for a period as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(f) Direct Guarantee Lenders may request an extension of the recertification deadline, but such a request must be presented to HUD at least 30 days before the recertification deadline.


(g) HUD will review the annual recertification submission and may request any further information required to determine recertification.


(h) HUD will provide written notification of approval to continue participation in the Section 184 Program or denial. A denial may be appealed pursuant to § 1005.909.


(1) If an annual recertification is not submitted by a reasonable deadline prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, HUD may subject the Direct Guarantee Lender to sanctions under § 1005.907.


(2) [Reserved]






