# ยง 387.307   Property broker surety bond or trust fund.

This section is effective January 16, 2026.


(a) *Security.* A broker must have a surety bond or trust fund of $75,000 in effect. FMCSA will not register a broker until a surety bond or trust fund for the full limits of liability prescribed herein is in effect. The broker registration shall remain in effect only as long as a surety bond or trust fund remains in effect and shall ensure the financial responsibility of the broker. Evidence of a surety bond must be filed using FMCSA's prescribed Form BMC-84. Evidence of a trust fund with a financial institution must be filed using FMCSA's prescribed Form BMC-85. The surety bond or the trust fund shall ensure the financial responsibility of the broker by providing for payments to shippers or motor carriers if the broker fails to carry out its contracts, agreements, or arrangements for the supplying of transportation by authorized motor carriers.


(b) *Acceptable assets.* Trust funds under this section must contain assets aggregating to $75,000 that can be liquidated to cash within 7 calendar days. Acceptable assets included in any trust fund filed under this section are limited to cash, irrevocable letters of credit issued by a federally insured depository institution, and Treasury bonds.


(c) *Financial institution.* When used in this section and in forms prescribed under this section, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, shall mean each agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of any person, as defined by the ICC Termination Act, doing business in one or more of the capacities:


(1) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h));


(2) A commercial bank or trust company;


(3) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;


(4) An insured depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2));


(5) A thrift institution (savings bank, building and loan association, credit union, industrial bank or other);


(6) An insurance company; or


(7) A person subject to supervision by any State or Federal bank supervisory authority.


(d) *Forms and Procedures.* (1) Forms for broker surety bonds and trust agreements. Form BMC-84 broker surety bond will be filed with FMCSA for the full security limits under paragraph (a) of this section; or Form BMC-85 broker trust fund agreement will be filed with FMCSA for the full security limits under paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Broker surety bonds and trust fund agreements in effect continuously. Surety bonds and trust fund agreements shall specify that coverage thereunder will remain in effect continuously until terminated as herein provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) *Cancellation notice.* The surety bond and the trust fund agreement may be cancelled only upon 30 days' written notice to FMCSA, on prescribed Form BMC-36, by the principal or surety for the surety bond, and on prescribed Form BMC-85, by the trustor/broker or trustee for the trust fund agreement. The notice period commences upon the actual receipt of the notice at FMCSA's Washington, DC office.


(ii) *Termination by replacement.* Broker surety bonds or trust fund agreements which have been accepted by FMCSA under these rules may be replaced by other surety bonds or trust fund agreements, and the liability of the retiring surety or trustee under such surety bond or trust fund agreements shall be considered as having terminated as of the effective date of the replacement surety bond or trust fund agreement. However, such termination shall not affect the liability of the surety or the trustee hereunder for the payment of any damages arising as the result of contracts, agreements or arrangements made by the broker for the supplying of transportation prior to the date such termination becomes effective.


(e) *Immediate suspension.* (1) A surety company issuing a Form BMC-84 or a financial institution issuing a Form BMC-85 must notify FMCSA in writing, by electronic means, when the surety company or financial institution:


(i) Makes a payment, with the consent of the broker, from the surety bond or trust fund for a claim by a shipper or motor carrier that causes the surety bond or trust fund to fall below $75,000;


(ii) Makes a payment in any case in which the broker does not respond within 7 business days to address the validity of the claim, and the surety provider or financial institution determines that the claim is valid, and the payment causes the surety bond or trust fund to fall below $75,000;


(iii) Makes a payment due to a judgment against the broker that causes the surety bond or trust fund to fall below $75,000; or


(iv) Determines that the broker is experiencing financial failure or insolvency and that the surety company or financial institution will be required to pay one or more claims pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 13906(b)(6) in an amount that will cause the surety bond or trust fund to fall below $75,000. The surety company or financial institution may make this determination when:


(A) It receives one or more claims that, if paid, would reduce the balance of the trust fund or surety bond below the required minimum;


(B) It has notified the broker of such claims and provided 7 business days for the broker to respond to the determination; and


(C) Either the broker fails to respond within the time period provided in paragraph (e)(1)(D)(ii) of this section, or provides a response and the surety company or financial institution nevertheless determines that the claim is legitimate and that the surety company or financial institution expects to make one or more payments on the claim from the bond or trust fund.


(2) Paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply when a broker has filed to initiate a proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the United States Code.


(3) The notification to FMCSA must include the broker's MC number or USDOT number, a description of the reason for the notification, and either:


(i) Evidence of the date a payment was made under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and amount of such payment, or


(ii) A list of currently pending claims, amounts, and evidence that the surety company or financial institution complied with the notification requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(D) of this section.


(4) The notification to FMCSA must be made within 2 business days of a payment or determination.


(5) Upon notification by the surety company or financial institution in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, FMCSA will provide written notice to the broker that its operating authority registration issued pursuant to part 365 of this chapter will be suspended within 7 business days of service of the notice unless the broker provides written evidence to FMCSA that the notification was sent in error, the surety bond or trust fund has been restored to the $75,000 amount required by this section, or the pending claims have been satisfied without the use of surety bond or trust fund assets. FMCSA will consider such evidence and provide written notice to the broker of its determination.


(6) If the broker fails to respond to the notice within 7 business days of service of the notice, FMCSA will enter a suspension of the broker's authority and provide written notice to the broker that the suspension is in effect. A broker whose authority has been suspended may request that FMCSA lift the suspension by providing written evidence that the notification was sent in error; the surety bond or trust fund has been restored to the $75,000 amount required by this section; or the pending claims have been satisfied without the use of surety bond or trust fund assets. FMCSA will consider such evidence and provide written notice to the broker of its determination.


(f) *Financial failure or insolvency of the broker.* (1) For purposes of this section, a *financial failure or insolvency* of a broker is defined as any payment made or other default pursuant to ยง 387.307(e)(1) not cured in accordance with ยง 387.307(e)(5) or (6).


(2) For purposes of this provision, a filing related to the broker pursuant to Title 11 of the United States Code does not constitute financial failure or insolvency.


(3) If a surety company or financial institution makes a determination as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, such surety company or financial institution shall initiate cancellation of the Form BMC-84 or Form BMC-85 pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.


(4) Upon notification by the surety company or financial institution, FMCSA will provide written notice of the cancellation in the FMCSA Register on its public website. The surety or financial institution must accept claims against the BMC-84 surety bond or BMC-85 trust fund for 60 calendar days (extended to the next business day if the final day of the period falls on a weekend or Federal holiday) following FMCSA's public notification of the financial failure or insolvency in the FMCSA Register.


(5) If a surety company or financial institution notifies FMCSA of its determination pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(iv) that a broker is experiencing financial failure or insolvency and the broker subsequently satisfies all pending claims that would have reduced the surety bond or trust fund below $75,000, the surety company or financial institution must immediately notify FMCSA that the broker is no longer experiencing financial failure or insolvency. Upon receiving evidence from the broker that the surety company or financial institution has terminated the cancellation process and reinstituted the bond or trust, or that the broker has obtained a new bond or trust from another eligible surety company or financial institution, FMCSA will promptly provide written notice in the FMCSA Register on its public website that the financial failure or insolvency has been cured.


(g) *Suspension of surety company or financial institution.* (1) If a surety company or financial institution violates the requirements of this section or 49 U.S.C. 13906(b) or (c), FMCSA shall suspend the authorization of such surety company or financial institution to have its instruments filed as evidence of financial responsibility pursuant to ยง 387.307 for 3 years.


(2) If FMCSA initiates a suspension action pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section it shall provide written notice to the surety company or financial institution, provide 30 calendar days (extended to the next business day if the final day of the period falls on a weekend or Federal holiday) for the surety company or financial institution to provide evidence contesting such proposed suspension, and then render a final decision in writing.



---

[N] [88 FR 78672, Nov. 16, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 107026, Dec. 31, 2024; 90 FR 1908, Jan. 10, 2025]


