# ยง 58.510   Rooms and compartments.

(a) Processing operations with open cheese vats should be separated from other rooms or areas. Excessive personnel traffic or other possible contaminating conditions should be avoided. Rooms, compartments, coolers, and dry storage space in which any raw material, packaging or ingredients supplies or finished products are handled, processed, packaged or stored shall be designed and constructed to assure clean and orderly operations. 


(b) *Ventilation.* Processing and packaging rooms or compartments shall be ventilated to maintain sanitary conditions, preclude the growth of mold and air borne bacterial contaminants, prevent undue condensation of water vapor and minimize or eliminate objectionable odors. To minimize air borne contamination in processing and packaging rooms a filtered air supply meeting the requirements of ยง 58.510(c) shall be provided. The incoming air shall exert an outward pressure so that the movement of air will be outward and prevent the movement of unfiltered air inward. 


(c) *Starter facility.* A separate starter room or properly designed starter tanks and satisfactory air movement techniques shall be provided for the propagation and handling of starter cultures. All necessary precautions shall be taken to prevent contamination of the room, equipment and the air therein. A filtered air supply with a minimum average efficiency of 90% when tested in accordance with the ASHRAE Synthetic Dust Arrestance Test should be provided so as to obtain an outward movement of air from the room to minimize contamination. 


(d) *Coolers.* Coolers shall be equipped with facilities for maintaining proper temperature and humidity conditions, consistent with good commercial practices for the applicable product, to protect the quality and condition of the products. Coolers shall be kept clean, orderly and free from mold, and maintained in good repair. They shall be adequately lighted and proper circulation of air shall be maintained at all times. The floors, walls, and ceilings shall be of such construction as to permit thorough cleaning. 




