# § 766.17   Decision of the administrative law judge.

(a) *Predecisional matters.* Except for default proceedings under § 766.7 of this part, the administrative law judge will give the parties reasonable opportunity to submit the following, which will be made a part of the record:


(1) Exceptions to any ruling by the judge or to the admissibility of evidence proffered at the hearing;


(2) Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law;


(3) Supporting legal arguments for the exceptions and proposed findings and conclusions submitted; and


(4) A proposed order.


(b) *Decision and order.* After considering the entire record in the proceeding, the administrative law judge will issue a written decision.


(1) *Initial decision.* For proceedings charging violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, the decision rendered shall be an initial decision. The decision will include findings of fact, conclusions of law, and findings as to whether there has been a violation of the EAA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. If the administrative law judge finds that the evidence of record is insufficient to sustain a finding that a violation has occurred with respect to one or more charges, the judge shall order dismissal of the charges in whole or in part, as appropriate. If the administrative law judge finds that one or more violations have been committed, the judge may issue an order imposing administrative sanctions, as provided in part 764 of the EAR. The decision and order shall be served on each party, and shall become effective as the final decision of the Department 30 days after service, unless an appeal is filed in accordance with § 766.21 of this part.


(2) *Recommended decision.* For proceedings not involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR, the decision rendered shall be a recommended decision. The decision will include recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law, and findings as to whether there has been a violation of the EAA, the EAR or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder. If the administrative law judge finds that the evidence of record is insufficient to sustain a recommended finding that a violation has occurred with respect to one or more charges, the judge shall recommend dismissal of any such charge. If the administrative law judge finds that one or more violations have been committed, the judge shall recommend an order imposing administrative sanctions, as provided in part 764 of the EAR, or such other action as the judge deems appropriate. The administrative law judge shall immediately certify the record, including the original copy of the recommended decision and order, to the Under Secretary for review in accordance with § 766.22 of this part. The administrative law judge shall also immediately serve the recommended decision on all parties. Because of the time limits established in the EAA for review by the Under Secretary, service upon parties shall be by personal delivery, express mail or other overnight carrier.


(c) *Suspension of sanctions.* Any order imposing administrative sanctions may provide for the suspension of the sanction imposed, in whole or in part and on such terms of probation or other conditions as the administrative law judge or the Under Secretary may specify. Any suspension order may be modified or revoked by the signing official upon application of BIS showing a violation of the probationary terms or other conditions, after service on the respondent of notice of the application in accordance with the service provisions of § 766.3 of this part, and with such opportunity for response as the responsible signing official in his/her discretion may allow. A copy of any order modifying or revoking the suspension shall also be served on the respondent in accordance with the provisions of § 766.3 of this part.


(d) *Time for decision.* Administrative enforcement proceedings not involving violations relating to part 760 of the EAR shall be concluded, including review by the Under Secretary under § 766.22 of this part, within one year of the submission of a charging letter, unless the administrative law judge, for good cause shown, extends such period. The charging letter will be deemed to have been submitted to the administrative law judge on the date the respondent files an answer or on the date BIS files a motion for a default order pursuant to § 766.7(a) of this part, whichever occurs first.




