# § 234.4   Changes to rules, procedures, or operations.

(a) *Advance notice.* (1) A designated financial market utility shall provide at least 60-days advance notice to the Board of any proposed change to its rules, procedures, or operations that could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by the designated financial market utility.


(2) The notice of the proposed change shall describe—


(i) The nature of the change and expected effects on risks to the designated financial market utility, its participants, or the market; and


(ii) How the designated financial market utility plans to manage any identified risks.


(3) The Board may require the designated financial market utility to provide additional information necessary to assess the effect the proposed change would have on the nature or level of risks associated with the utility's payment, clearing, or settlement activities and the sufficiency of any proposed risk-management techniques.


(4) A designated financial market utility shall not implement a change to which the Board has an objection.


(5) The Board will notify the designated financial market utility of any objection before the end of 60 days after the later of—


(i) The date the Board receives the notice of proposed change; or


(ii) The date the Board receives any further information it requests for consideration of the notice.


(6) A designated financial market utility may implement a change if it has not received an objection to the proposed change before the end of 60 days after the later of—


(i) The date the Board receives the notice of proposed change; or


(ii) The date the Board receives any further information it requests for consideration of the notice.


(7) With respect to proposed changes that raise novel or complex issues, the Board may, by written notice during the 60-day review period, extend the review period for an additional 60 days. Any extension under this paragraph will extend the time periods under paragraphs (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section to 120 days.


(8) A designated financial market utility may implement a proposed change before the expiration of the applicable review period if the Board notifies the designated financial market utility in writing that the Board does not object to the proposed change and authorizes the designated financial market utility to implement the change on an earlier date, subject to any conditions imposed by the Board.


(b) *Emergency changes.* (1) A designated financial market utility may implement a change that would otherwise require advance notice under this section if it determines that—


(i) An emergency exists; and


(ii) Immediate implementation of the change is necessary for the designated financial market utility to continue to provide its services in a safe and sound manner.


(2) The designated financial market utility shall provide notice of any such emergency change to the Board as soon as practicable and no later than 24 hours after implementation of the change.


(3) In addition to the information required for changes requiring advance notice in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the notice of an emergency change shall describe—


(i) The nature of the emergency; and


(ii) The reason the change was necessary for the designated financial market utility to continue to provide its services in a safe and sound manner.


(4) The Board may require modification or rescission of the change if it finds that the change is not consistent with the purposes of the Dodd-Frank Act or any applicable rules, order, or standards prescribed under section 805(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act.


(c) *Materiality.* (1) The term “materially affect the nature or level of risks presented” in paragraph (a)(1) of this section means matters as to which there is a reasonable possibility that the change would materially affect the overall nature or level of risk presented by the designated financial market utility, including risk arising in the performance of payment, clearing, or settlement functions.


(2) A change to rules, procedures, or operations that would materially affect the nature or level of risks presented includes, but is not limited to, changes that materially affect any one or more of the following:


(i) Participant eligibility or access criteria;


(ii) Product eligibility;


(iii) Risk management;


(iv) Settlement failure or default procedures;


(v) Financial resources;


(vi) Business continuity and disaster recovery plans;


(vii) Daily or intraday settlement procedures;


(viii) The scope of services, including the addition of a new service or discontinuation of an existing service;


(ix) Technical design or operating platform, which results in non-routine changes to the underlying technological framework for payment, clearing, or settlement functions; or


(x) Governance.


(3) A change to rules, procedures, or operations that does not meet the conditions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section and would not materially affect the nature or level of risks presented includes, but is not limited to the following:


(i) A routine technology systems upgrade;


(ii) A change in a fee, price, or other charge for services provided by the designated financial market utility;


(iii) A change related solely to the administration of the designated financial market utility or related to the routine, daily administration, direction, and control of employees; or


(iv) A clerical change and other non-substantive revisions to rules, procedures, or other documentation.



---

[N] [77 FR 45919, Aug. 2, 2012. Redesignated at 79 FR 65562, Nov. 5, 2014]




