# ยง 21.400   Veterans' Advisory Committee on Rehabilitation.

(a) *General.* The Secretary shall appoint an advisory committee to be known as the Veterans' Advisory Committee on Rehabilitation.


(b) *Purpose.* The purposes of the Veterans' Advisory Committee on Rehabilitation, hereafter referred to as the committee, are to:


(1) Assess the rehabilitation needs of service and nonservice-disabled veterans; and


(2) Review the programs and activities of VA designed to meet such needs;


(c) *Members.* The committee shall include:


(1) Members of the general public;


(2) Appropriate representation of veterans with service-connected disabilities; and


(3) Persons who have distinguished themselves in the public and private sectors in the fields of rehabilitation, and employment and training programs.


(d) *Members terms.* The Secretary shall appoint members of the committee for three-year terms. Members may be reappointed for additional three-year terms.


(e) *Chairperson.* The Secretary will designate one of the members of the committee to chair the committee.


(f) *Ex-officio members.* The committee shall also include ex-officio members named by the following agencies. The ex-officio members shall include one representative from:


(1) The Veterans Health Services and Research Administration;


(2) The Veterans Benefits Administration;


(3) The Rehabilitation Services Administration and one from the National Institute for Handicapped Research of the Department of Education; and


(4) The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment of the Department of Labor.


