# § 764.2   Violations.

(a) *Engaging in prohibited conduct.* No person may engage in any transaction or take any other action prohibited by or contrary to, or refrain from engaging in any transaction or take any other action required by ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.


(b) *Causing, aiding, or abetting a violation.* No person may cause or aid, abet, counsel, command, induce, procure, permit, or approve the doing of any act prohibited, or the omission of any act required, by ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.


(c) *Solicitation and attempt.* No person may solicit or attempt a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder.


(d) *Conspiracy.* No person may conspire or act in concert with one or more persons in any manner or for any purpose to bring about or to do any act that constitutes a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder.


(e) *Acting with knowledge of a violation.* No person may order, buy, remove, conceal, store, use, sell, loan, dispose of, transfer, transport, finance, forward, or otherwise service, in whole or in part, or conduct negotiations to facilitate such activities with respect to, any item that has been, is being, or is about to be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country), or that is otherwise subject to the EAR, with knowledge that a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder, has occurred, is about to occur, or is intended to occur in connection with the item.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Misrepresentation and concealment of facts.* (1) No person may make any false or misleading representation, statement, or certification, or falsify or conceal any material fact, either directly to BIS or an official of any other United States agency, or indirectly through any other person:


(i) In the course of an investigation or other action subject to the EAR; or


(ii) In connection with the preparation, submission, issuance, use, or maintenance of any “export control document” or any report filed or required to be filed pursuant to the EAR; or


(iii) For the purpose of or in connection with effecting an export, reexport, transfer (in-country) or other activity subject to the EAR.


(2) All representations, statements, and certifications made by any person are deemed to be continuing in effect. Every person who has made any representation, statement, or certification must notify BIS, and any other relevant agency, in writing, of any change of any material fact or intention from that previously represented, stated, or certified, immediately upon receipt of any information that would lead a reasonably prudent person to know that a change of material fact or intention has occurred or may occur in the future.


(h) *Evasion.* No person may engage in any transaction or take any other action with intent to evade the provisions of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.


(i) *Failure to comply with reporting, recordkeeping requirements.* No person may fail or refuse to comply with any reporting or recordkeeping requirement of ECRA, the EAR, or of any order, license, or authorization issued thereunder.


(j) *License alteration.* Except as specifically authorized in the EAR or in writing by BIS, no person may alter any license, authorization, export control document, or order issued under ECRA or the EAR.


(k) *Acting contrary to the terms of a denial order.* No person may take any action that is prohibited by a denial order or a temporary denial order issued by BIS to prevent imminent violations of ECRA, the EAR, or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.



---

[N] [85 FR 73416, Nov. 18, 2020]




