# § 2361.5   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the term:


*Act* means the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production Act of 1976 (as amended and codified at 42 U.S.C. 6501-6508).


*Authorized officer* means any employee of the Bureau of Land Management who has been delegated the authority to perform the duties of this subpart.


*Bureau* means the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).


*Co-Stewardship* broadly refers to cooperative and collaborative engagements of Bureau land managers and Tribes related to shared interests in managing, conserving, and preserving natural and cultural resources under the primary responsibility of Federal land managers. Such cooperative and collaborative engagements can take a wide variety of forms based on the circumstances and applicable authorities in each case. Forms of co-stewardship may include, among other forms, sharing of technical expertise; combining Tribal and Bureau capabilities to improve resource management and advance the responsibilities and interests of each; and making Tribal knowledge, experience, and perspectives integral to the public's experience of Federal lands.


*Exploration* means activities conducted on the Reserve for the purpose of evaluating petroleum resources, including crude oil, gases (including natural gas), natural gasoline, and other related hydrocarbons, oil shale, and the products of any such resources.


*Indigenous Knowledge (IK)* means a body of observations, oral and written knowledge, practices, and beliefs developed by Tribes and Indigenous Peoples through interaction and experience with the environment. It is applied to phenomena across biological, physical, social, and cultural systems. IK can be developed over millennia, continues to develop, and includes understanding based on evidence acquired through direct contact with the environment and long-term experiences, as well as extensive observations, lessons, and skills passed from generation to generation. IK is developed by Indigenous Peoples including, but not limited to, Tribal Nations, American Indians, and Alaska Natives.


*Infrastructure* means a permanent or semi-permanent structure or improvement on BLM-administered lands within the Reserve that is built to support commercial oil and gas activities, such as pipelines, gravel drilling pads, man camps, and other structures or improvements. Infrastructure does not include exploratory wells that are drilled in a single season; or construction, renovation, or replacement of facilities on existing gravel pads at previously disturbed sites where the facilities will promote safety and environmental protection. Additionally, infrastructure does not include: structures or improvements intended for use by subsistence hunters, trappers, fishers, berry-pickers, and other subsistence users to facilitate subsistence activities; construction that is ephemeral (such as snow or ice roads); infrastructure constructed in support of science or public safety; or infrastructure that will primarily be used by and provide a benefit to communities located within or in close proximity to the Reserve.


*Integrated Activity Plan (IAP)* means a land use management plan that governs the management of all BLM-administered lands and minerals throughout the Reserve.


*Reserve* means those lands within the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (prior to June 1, 1977, designated Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 4) which was established by Executive order, dated February 27, 1923, except for tract Numbered 1 as described in Public Land Order 2344 (the Naval Arctic Research-Laboratory—surface estate only) dated April 24, 1961.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior.


*Significant resource value* means any surface value, including subsistence, recreational, fish and wildlife, historical, scenic, or other surface value that the Bureau identifies as significant and supports the designation of a Special Area.


*Special Areas* means areas within the Reserve identified by the Secretary or by statute as having significant resource values and that are managed to assure maximum protection of such surface values, to the extent consistent with the requirements of the Act for the exploration and production of the Reserve.


*Use authorization* means a written approval of a request for use of land or resources.






