# § 41.24   Rule amendments to security futures products.

(a) *Self-certification of rules and rule amendments by designated contract markets and registered derivatives clearing organizations.* A designated contract market or registered derivatives clearing organization may implement any new rule or rule amendment relating to a security futures product by submitting to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, either in electronic or hard-copy form, to be received by the Commission no later than the day prior to the implementation of the rule or rule amendment, a filing that:


(1) Is labeled “Security Futures Product Rule Submission;'


(2) Includes a copy of the new rule or rule amendment;


(3) Includes a certification that the designated contract market or registered derivatives clearing organization has filed the rule or rule amendment with the Securities and Exchange Commission, if such a filing is required;


(4) If the board of trade is a designated contract market pursuant to section 5 of the Act or is a registered derivatives clearing organization pursuant to section 5b of the Act, it includes the documents and certifications required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 40.6 of this chapter, including a certification that the security futures product complies with the Act and rules thereunder; and


(5) Includes a copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in appendix D of part 40.


(6) Includes a request for confidential treatment as permitted under the procedures of § 40.8.


(b) *Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval.* A designated contract market or a registered derivatives clearing organization clearing security futures products may request that the Commission approve any rule or proposed rule or rule amendment relating to a security futures product under the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter, *provided however,* that the registered entity shall include the certifications required by § 41.22 with its submission under § 40.5 of this chapter. Notice designated contract markets may not request Commission approval of rules.



---

[N] [66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 74 FR 17394, Apr. 15, 2009; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]




