# § 137.305   Enriched farina.

(a) Enriched farina conforms to the definition and standard of identity prescribed for farina by § 137.300, except that:


(1) It contains in each pound not less than 2.0 milligrams (mg) and not more than 2.5 mg of thiamin, not less than 1.2 mg and not more than 1.5 mg of riboflavin, not less than 16.0 mg and not more than 20.0 mg of niacin or niacinamide, not less than 0.7 mg and not more than 0.87 mg of folic acid, and not less than 13.0 mg of iron (Fe).


(2) Vitamin D may be added in such quantity that each pound of the finished enriched farina contains not less than 250 U.S.P. units of the optional ingredient vitamin D.


(3) Calcium may be added in such quantity that each pound of the finished enriched farina contains not less than 500 milligrams of the optional ingredient calcium (Ca).


(4) It may contain not more than 8 percent by weight of the optional ingredient wheat germ or partly defatted wheat germ.


(5)(i) It may contain not less than 0.5 percent and not more than 1 percent by weight of the optional ingredient disodium phosphate; or


(ii) It may be treated with one of the proteinase enzymes papain or pepsin to reduce substantially the time required for cooking. In such treatment papain or pepsin, in an amount not to exceed 0.1 percent by weight, is added to the farina, which is moistened, warmed, and subsequently heated sufficiently to inactivate the enzyme and to dry the product to comply with the limit for moisture prescribed by § 137.300(a).


(6) In determining whether the ash content complies with the requirements of this section allowance is made for ash resulting from any added iron or salts of iron or calcium, or from any added disodium phosphate, or from any added wheat germ or partly defatted wheat germ.


(b)(1) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.


(2)(i) When the optional ingredient disodium phosphate is used, the label shall bear the statement “Disodium phosphate added for quick cooking”.


(ii) When the proteinase enzyme treatment is used, the label shall bear the statement “Enzyme treated for quicker cooking”. 


(3) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements prescribed by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter; except that where the name of the food is a part of a trademark or brand, then other written, printed, or graphic matter that is also a part of the trademark or brand may so intervene, if such statement is in such juxtaposition with the trademark or brand as to be conspicuously related to the name of the food.



---

[N] [42 FR 14402, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 2878, Jan. 6, 1993; 61 FR 8796, Mar. 5, 1996]




