# ยง 602.2   Disclosing reports of examination and other non-public information.

(a) *Disclosure by FCA.* Reports of examination are FCA property. We prepare them for our confidential use and the use of the institution examined. We do not give reports of examination to the public. Except as provided in this section, only the Chairman or the Chairman's designee may consent to disclosing reports of examination of Farm Credit System institutions and other institutions subject to our examination. You may send a written request to our General Counsel that explains why we should give permission.


(b) *Disclosure by Farm Credit System institutions.* An institution that we have examined may disclose its report of examination to its officers, directors, and agents, such as its attorney or accountant, if they agree to keep the report confidential. In addition, banks may disclose their reports of examination to their affiliated associations, associations may disclose their reports to their supervisory bank, and service corporations may disclose their reports of examination to the institutions that own them. An institution may not disclose these institutions' reports of examination to any other person without our written permission.


(c) *Disclosure to the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.* Without waiving any privilege or limiting any of the requirements of section 5.59 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, we may disclose reports of examination and other examination and non-public information, including data from reports of System accounts and exposures received pursuant to ยง 621.15 of this chapter, to the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation pursuant to confidentiality and data security agreements executed between the agencies.


(d) *Disclosure to governmental entities.* Without waiving any privilege, we will disclose reports of examination to other Federal government entities:


(1) In response to a Federal court order;


(2) In response to a request of either House or a Committee or Subcommittee of Congress; or


(3) When requested for confidential use in an official investigation by authorized representatives of other Federal agencies.



---

[N] [64 FR 41770, Aug. 2, 1999, as amended at 78 FR 77561, Dec. 24, 2013]




