# ยง 4.5   Power of the Secretary and Director.

(a) *Secretary.* Nothing in this part shall be construed to deprive the Secretary of any power conferred upon the Secretary by law. The authority reserved to the Secretary includes, but is not limited to:


(1) The authority to take jurisdiction at any stage of any case before any employee or employees of the Department, including any administrative law judge or board of the Office, and render the final decision in the matter after holding such hearing as may be required by law; and


(2) The authority to review any decision of any employee or employees of the Department, including any administrative law judge or board of the Office, or to direct any such employee or employees to reconsider a decision.


(b) Pursuant to his delegated authority from the Secretary, the Director may assume jurisdiction of any case before any board of the Office or review any decision of any board of the Office or direct reconsideration of any decision by any board of the Office. The Director may issue Standing Orders to convey current information to parties and the public. This includes, but is not limited to, the OHA Standing Orders on Contact Information and the OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission to convey information related to electronic transmission, including filing and service. OHA Standing Orders may be issued related to emergency or other contingency. OHA Standing Orders are available on the Department of the Interior OHA website.


(c) *Exercise of reserved power.* If the Secretary or Director assumes jurisdiction of a case or reviews a decision, the parties and the appropriate Departmental personnel will be advised in writing of such action, the administrative record will be requested, and, after the review process is completed, a written decision will be issued.



---

[N] [50 FR 43705, Oct. 29, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 46355, Dec. 7, 1987; 52 FR 47097, Dec. 11, 1987; 88 FR 5792, Jan. 30, 2023]




