# ยง 412.3   General.

(a) *Applicability.* This part applies to acceptance by the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Eximbank) of payment from a non-Federal source for travel, subsistence, and related expenses with respect to the attendance of an employee in a travel status at any meeting or similar event relating to the official duties of the employee, other than those described in 41 CFR 304-1.2. This part does not authorize acceptance of such payments by an employee in his/her personal capacity. 


(b) *Solicitation prohibited.* An employee shall not solicit payment for travel, subsistence and related expenses from a non-Federal source. However, after receipt of an invitation from a non-Federal source to attend a meeting or similar event, Eximbank or the employee may inform the non-Federal source of this authority. 


(c) *Definitions.* As used in this part, the following definitions apply: 


(1) *Conflicting non-Federal source. Conflicting non-Federal source* means any person who, or entity other than the Government of the United States which, has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of the employee's duties. 


(2) *Employee. Employee* means any director, officer or other employee of Eximbank. 


(3) *Meeting or similar event. Meeting or similar event* means a meeting, formal gathering, site visit, negotiation session or similar event that takes place away from the employee's official station and which is directly related to the mission of Eximbank. This term does not include any meeting or similar function described in 41 CFR 304-1.2 or sponsored by Eximbank. A meeting or similar event need not be widely attended for purposes of this definition. 


(4) *Non-Federal source. Non-Federal source* means any person or entity other than the Government of the United States. The term includes any individual, private or commercial entity, nonprofit organization or association, state, local, or foreign government, or international or multinational organization. 


(5) *Payment. Payment* means funds paid or reimbursed to Eximbank by a non-Federal source for travel, subsistence, and related expenses by check or similar instrument, or payment in kind. 


(6) *Payment in kind. Payment in kind* means goods, services or other benefits provided by a non-Federal source for travel, subsistence, and related expenses in lieu of funds paid to Eximbank by check or similar instrument for the same purpose. 


(7) *Travel, subsistence and related expenses. Travel, subsistence and related expenses* means the same types of expenses payable under 41 CFR chapter 301. 




