# § 29.1583   Operating limitations.

(a) *Airspeed and rotor limitations.* Information necessary for the marking of airspeed and rotor limitations on or near their respective indicators must be furnished. The significance of each limitation and of the color coding must be explained. 


(b) *Powerplant limitations.* The following information must be furnished: 


(1) Limitations required by § 29.1521. 


(2) Explanation of the limitations, when appropriate. 


(3) Information necessary for marking the instruments required by §§ 29.1549 through 29.1553. 


(c) *Weight and loading distribution.* The weight and center of gravity limits required by §§ 29.25 and 29.27, respectively, must be furnished. If the variety of possible loading conditions warrants, instructions must be included to allow ready observance of the limitations. 


(d) *Flight crew.* When a flight crew of more than one is required, the number and functions of the minimum flight crew determined under § 29.1523 must be furnished. 


(e) *Kinds of operation.* Each kind of operation for which the rotorcraft and its equipment installations are approved must be listed. 


(f) *Limiting heights.* Enough information must be furnished to allow compliance with § 29.1517. 


(g) *Maximum allowable wind.* For Category A rotorcraft, the maximum allowable wind for safe operation near the ground must be furnished.


(h) *Altitude.* The altitude established under § 29.1527 and an explanation of the limiting factors must be furnished. 


(i) *Ambient temperature.* Maximum and minimum ambient temperature limitations must be furnished.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-3, 33 FR 971, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 29-15, 43 FR 2327, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 29-17, 43 FR 50602, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 29-24, 49 FR 44440, Nov. 6, 1984] 




