# § 423.570   Expediting certain coverage determinations.

(a) *Request for expedited determination.* An enrollee or an enrollee's prescribing physician or other prescriber may request that a Part D plan sponsor expedite a coverage determination involving issues described in § 423.566(b) of this part. This does not include requests for payment of Part D drugs already furnished.


(b) *How to make a request.* (1) To ask for an expedited determination, an enrollee or an enrollee's prescribing physician or other prescriber on behalf of the enrollee must submit an oral or written request directly to the Part D plan sponsor or, if applicable, to the entity responsible for making the determination, as directed by the Part D plan sponsor.


(2) A prescribing physician or other prescriber may provide oral or written support for an enrollee's request for an expedited determination.


(c) *How the Part D plan sponsor must process requests.* The Part D plan sponsor must establish and maintain the following procedures for processing requests for expedited determinations:


(1) An efficient and convenient means for accepting oral or written requests submitted by enrollees, prescribing physicians, or other prescribers.


(2) A method for documenting all oral requests and maintaining the documentation in the case file; and


(3) A means for issuing prompt decisions on expediting a determination, based on the following requirements:


(i) For a request made by an enrollee, provide an expedited determination if it determines that applying the standard timeframe for making a determination may seriously jeopardize the life or health of the enrollee or the enrollee's ability to regain maximum function.


(ii) For a request made or supported by an enrollee's prescribing physician or other prescriber, provide an expedited determination if the physician or other prescriber indicates that applying the standard timeframe for making a determination may seriously jeopardize the life or health of the enrollee or the enrollee's ability to regain maximum function.


(d) *Actions following denial.* If a Part D plan sponsor denies a request for expedited determination, it must take the following actions:


(1) Make the determination within the 72-hour timeframe established in § 423.568(b) for a standard determination. The 72-hour period begins on the day the Part D plan sponsor receives the request for expedited determination. For an exceptions request, the Part D plan sponsor must notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours after receipt of the physician's or other prescriber's supporting statement. If a supporting statement is not received by the end of 14 calendar days from receipt of the exceptions request, the Part D plan sponsor must notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours from the end of 14 calendar days from receipt of the exceptions request.


(2) Give the enrollee and prescribing physician or other prescriber prompt oral notice of the denial that— 


(i) Explains that the Part D plan sponsor must process the request using the 72 hour timeframe for standard determinations;


(ii) Informs the enrollee of the right to file an expedited grievance if he or she disagrees with the decision by the Part D plan sponsor not to expedite;


(iii) Informs the enrollee of the right to resubmit a request for an expedited determination with the prescribing physician's or other prescriber's support and 


(iv) Provides instructions about the plan's grievance process and its timeframes.


(3) Subsequently deliver to the enrollee, within 3 calendar days, equivalent written notice.


(e) *Actions on accepted requests for expedited determination.* If a Part D plan sponsor grants a request for expedited determination, it must make the determination and give notice in accordance with § 423.572.


(f) *Dismissing a request.* The Part D plan sponsor dismisses an expedited coverage determination in accordance with § 423.568.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 20507, Apr. 15, 2008; 74 FR 1546, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19823, Apr. 15, 2010; 84 FR 15843, Apr. 16, 2019; 86 FR 6120, Jan. 19, 2021]




