# § 1065.1   Applicability.

(a) This part describes the procedures that apply to testing we require for the following engines or for vehicles using the following engines:


(1) Locomotives we regulate under 40 CFR part 1033.


(2) Heavy-duty highway engines we regulate under 40 CFR parts 86 and 1036.


(3) Nonroad compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1039 and stationary diesel engines that are certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1039 as specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII.


(4) Marine compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1042.


(5) Marine spark-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1045.






(6) Large nonroad spark-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1048, and stationary engines that are certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1048 or as otherwise specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ.


(7) Vehicles we regulate under 40 CFR part 1051 (such as snowmobiles and off-highway motorcycles) based on engine testing. See 40 CFR part 1051, subpart F, for standards and procedures that are based on vehicle testing.


(8) Small nonroad spark-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1054 and stationary engines that are certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 1054 as specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ.


(b) The procedures of this part may apply to other types of engines, as described in this part and in the standard-setting part.


(c) The term “you” means anyone performing testing under this part other than EPA.


(1) This part is addressed primarily to manufacturers of engines, vehicles, equipment, and vessels, but it applies equally to anyone who does testing under this part for such manufacturers.


(2) This part applies to any manufacturer or supplier of test equipment, instruments, supplies, or any other goods or services related to the procedures, requirements, recommendations, or options in this part.


(d) Paragraph (a) of this section identifies the parts of the CFR that define emission standards and other requirements for particular types of engines. In this part, we refer to each of these other parts generically as the ”standard-setting part.” For example, 40 CFR part 1051 is always the standard-setting part for snowmobiles. Note that while 40 CFR part 86 is the standard-setting part for heavy-duty highway engines, this refers specifically to 40 CFR part 86, subpart A, and to certain portions of 40 CFR part 86, subpart N, as described in 40 CFR 86.1301.


(e) Unless we specify otherwise, the terms “procedures” and “test procedures” in this part include all aspects of engine testing, including the equipment specifications, calibrations, calculations, and other protocols and procedural specifications needed to measure emissions.


(f) For vehicles, equipment, or vessels subject to this part and regulated under vehicle-based, equipment-based, or vessel-based standards, use good engineering judgment to interpret the term “engine” in this part to include vehicles, equipment, or vessels, where appropriate.


(g) For additional information regarding the test procedures in this part, visit our website at *www.epa.gov,* and in particular *https://www.epa.gov/vehicle-and-fuel-emissions-testing/engine-testing-regulations.*

(h) This part describes procedures and specifications for measuring an engine's exhaust emissions. While the measurements are geared toward engine-based measurements (in units of g/kW · hr), many of these provisions apply equally to vehicle-based measurements (in units of g/mile or g/kilometer). 40 CFR part 1066 describes the analogous procedures for vehicle-based emission measurements, and in many cases states that specific provisions of this part 1065 also apply for those vehicle-based measurements. Where material from this part 1065 applies for vehicle-based measurements under 40 CFR part 1066, it is sometimes necessary to include parenthetical statements in this part 1065 to properly cite secondary references that are different for vehicle-based testing. See 40 CFR part 1066 and the standard-setting part for additional information.


(i) The following additional procedures apply as described in subpart L of this part:


(1) Measuring brake-specific emissions of semi-volatile organic compounds, which are not subject to separate emission standards.


(2) Identifying the threshold temperature for vanadium sublimation for SCR catalysts.


(3) Measuring the smoke opacity of engine exhaust.


(4) Aging aftertreatment devices in support of determining deterioration factors for certified compression-ignition engines.





---

[N] [73 FR 37288, June 30, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59321, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23028, Apr. 30, 2010; 76 FR 37977, June 28, 2011; 76 FR 57437, Sept. 15, 2011; 79 FR 23752, Apr. 28, 2014; 86 FR 34533, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4669, Jan. 24, 2023]




