# § 53.6081-1   Automatic extension of time for filing the return to report taxes due under section 4951 for self-dealing with a nuclear decommissioning fund.

(a) *In general.* A “disqualified person” for purposes of section 4951(e)(4) who engaged in self-dealing with a Nuclear Decommissioning Fund, and must report tax due under section 4951 on Form 1120-ND, “Return for Nuclear Decommissioning Funds and Certain Related Persons,” will be allowed an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return after the date prescribed for filing the return if the disqualified person files an application under this section in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. For guidance on requesting an extension of time to file Form 1120-ND for purposes of reporting contributions received, income earned, administrative expenses of operating the fund, and the tax on modified gross income, see § 1.6081-3 of this chapter.


(b) *Requirements.* To satisfy this paragraph (b), a disqualified person must—


(1) Submit a complete application on Form 7004, “Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns,” or in any other manner prescribed by the Commissioner;


(2) File the application on or before the date prescribed for filing the return with the Internal Revenue Service office designated in the application's instructions; and


(3) Remit the amount of the properly estimated unpaid tax liability on or before the date prescribed for payment.


(c) *No extension of time for the payment of tax.* An automatic extension of time for filing a return granted under paragraph (a) of this section will not extend the time for payment of any tax due on such return.


(d) *Termination of automatic extension.* The Commissioner may terminate an automatic extension at any time by mailing to the disqualified person a notice of termination at least 10 days prior to the termination date designated in such notice. The Commissioner must mail the notice of termination to the address shown on the Form 7004 or to the disqualified person's last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter.


(e) *Penalties.* See section 6651 for failure to file or failure to pay the amount shown as tax on the return.


(f) *Effective/applicability dates.* This section is applicable for applications for an automatic extension of time to file a return to report taxes due under section 4951 for self-dealing with a Nuclear Decommissioning Fund filed after July 1, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 9407, 73 FR 37369, July 1, 2008]




