# ยง 10.62a   Blanket withdrawals for certain merchandise.

(a) *Generally.* Under this section, a blanket withdrawal on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, may be filed for all or part of any merchandise withdrawn from warehouse except fuel oil covered under ยง 10.62, for use on qualified vessels. Such a withdrawal shall be made only for lading on board vessels at the port where the warehouse is located. The procedure for the blanket withdrawal and partial releases after the initial release are the same as those provided in ยง 19.6(d) of this chapter, except as noted in paragraph (b).


(b) *Partial release.* A partial release on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, in duplicate, or in triplicate if an extra copy is required by the port director, shall be presented to the warehouse proprietor and placed in the proprietor's permit file folder under the partial release procedure set forth in ยง 19.6(d) of this chapter, as merchandise is needed for delivery to a using vessel. The original of the partial release document shall accompany the merchandise for delivery to the Customs officer who will supervise lading, or if a Customs officer does not physically supervise lading, to the master of the vessel. The original shall be returned to the proprietor for record purposes after the Customs officer or master of the vessel, as appropriate, has certified lading of the goods described in the document.



---

[N] [T.D. 82-204, 47 FR 49367, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended by T.D. 95-81, 60 FR 52295, Oct. 6, 1995; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61284, Oct. 13, 2015]




