# ยง 6.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part:


(a) *Agency* includes any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency (see 5 U.S.C. 552(e)).


(b) *Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


(c) *Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use, and disseminate.


(d) *Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to those concerning education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains the name or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint, voiceprint, or photograph.


(e) *System of records* means a group of any records under the control of an agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identification assigned to that individual.


(f) *Statistical record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8.


(g) *Routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of that record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.


(h) *System manager* means the employee of FEMA who is responsible for the maintenance of a system of records and for the collection, use, and dissemination of information therein.


(i) *Subject individual* means the individual named or discussed in a record of the individual to whom a record otherwise pertains.


(j) *Disclosure* means a transfer of a record, a copy of a record, or any or all of the information contained in a record to a recipient other than the subject individual, or the review of a record by someone other than the subject individual.


(k) *Access* means a transfer of a record, a copy of a record, or the information in a record to the subject individual, or the review of a record by the subject individual.


(l) *Solicitation* means a request by an officer or employee of FEMA that an individual provide information about himself or herself.


(m) *Administrator* means the Administrator, FEMA.


(n) *Deputy Administrator* means the Deputy Administrator, FEMA, or, in the case of the absence of the Deputy Administrator, or a vacancy in that office, a person designated by the Administrator to perform the functions under this regulation of the Deputy Administrator.


(o) *Privacy Appeals Officer* means the FOIA/Privacy Act Specialist or his/her designee.



---

[N] [44 FR 50293, Aug. 27, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 17152, Mar. 18, 1980; 51 FR 34604, Sept. 30, 1986]




