# § 80.1472   Requirements for quality assurance audits.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) An audit shall be performed by an auditor who meets the requirements of § 80.1471.


(2) An audit shall be based on either an Option A QAP per § 80.1469(a) during the interim period, an Option B QAP per § 80.1469(b) during the interim period, or a QAP per § 80.1469(c).


(3) Each audit shall verify every element contained in an applicable and approved QAP.


(4) Each audit shall include a review of documents generated by the renewable fuel producer or biointermediate producer.


(b) *On-site visits*—(1) *Option A QAP during the interim period.* (i) The auditor shall conduct an on-site visit at the renewable fuel production facility at least 4 times per calendar year.


(ii) The on-site visits specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall occur at least 60 days apart. The 60-day period shall start the day after the previous on-site ends.


(iii) The on-site visit shall include verification of all QAP elements that require inspection or evaluation of the physical attributes of the renewable fuel production facility, except for any physical attribute that is verified through remote monitoring equipment per the applicable QAP.


(2) *Option B QAP during the interim period.* (i) The auditor shall conduct an on-site visit at the renewable fuel production facility at least 4 times per calendar year.


(ii) The on-site visits specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section shall occur at least 60 days apart. The 60-day period shall start the day after the previous on-site ends.


(iii) The on-site visit shall include verification of all QAP elements that require inspection or evaluation of the physical attributes of the renewable fuel production facility.


(3) *QAP.* (i) As applicable, the independent third-party auditor shall conduct an on-site visit at the renewable fuel production facility, foreign ethanol production facility, or biointermediate production facility:


(A) At least two times per calendar year; or


(B) In the event an auditor uses a remote monitoring system approved by the EPA, at least one time per calendar year.


(ii) An on-site visit specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section shall occur no more than:


(A) 200 days after the previous on-site visit. The 200-day period shall start the day after the previous on-site visit ends; or


(B) 380 days after the previous on-site visit if a previously approved (by EPA) remote monitoring system is in place at the renewable fuel production facility, foreign ethanol production facility, or biointermediate production facility, as applicable. The 380-day period shall start the day after the previous on-site visit ends.


(iii) An on-site visit shall include verification of all QAP elements that require inspection or evaluation of the physical attributes of the renewable fuel production facility, foreign ethanol production facility, or biointermediate production facility, as applicable.


(iv) The on-site visit shall be overseen by a professional engineer, as specified in § 80.1450(b)(2)(i)(A) and (b)(2)(i)(B).



---

[N] [79 FR 42122, July 18, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 7083, Feb. 6, 2020; 87 FR 39674, July 1, 2022]




