# ยง 371.12   Concurrent authority and responsibility to the Administrator.

(a) *Delegations that preclude the Administrator or each Deputy Administrator or Director from exercising powers or functions.* No delegation or authorization in this part shall preclude the Administrator or each Deputy Administrator or Director from exercising any of the powers or functions or from performing any of the duties conferred upon each, respectively. Any delegation or authorization is subject, at all times, to withdrawal or amendment by the Administrator, and in their respective fields, by each Deputy Administrator or Director. The officers to whom authority is delegated in this part shall:


(1) Maintain close working relationships with the officers to whom they report.


(2) Keep them advised with respect to major problems and developments.


(3) Discuss with them proposed actions involving major policy questions or other important considerations or questions, including matters involving relationships with other Federal agencies, other agencies of the Department, other divisions, staffs, or offices of the agency, or other governmental, private organizations, or groups.


(b) *Prior authorizations and delegations.* All prior delegations and redelegations of authority relating to any function, program, or activity covered by the statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority, shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent with this part or are amended or revoked. Nothing in this part shall affect the validity of any action taken previously under prior delegations or redelegations of authority or assignments of functions.




