# § 32.22   Arizona.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Bill Williams River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning and white-winged dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only shotguns and archery equipment for hunting.


(ii) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters) of any road or trail open to public use and within 
1/4 mile (402 meters) of any building.


(iii) You must remove boats, equipment, temporary blinds, stands, etc., at the end of each day's activities (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise and must leave the refuge no later than 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's quail, Eurasian collared-dove, cottontail rabbit, coyote, gray fox, and kit fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply, except that we also allow muzzleloading shotguns for cottontail rabbit hunting.


(ii) We allow hunting of Gambel's quail in alignment with the State quail season.


(iii) We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit from September through February aligning with the beginning of the State dove season and the end of the State quail season.


(iv) We allow hunting of Eurasian collared-dove during the State mourning and white-winged dove season.


(v) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of desert bighorn sheep and javelina on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow the use of rifles, muzzleloaders, and archery for desert bighorn sheep hunting.


(iii) We allow shotguns shooting slugs and archery equipment for javelina hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section applies.


(b) *Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.*We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, merganser, moorhen (gallinule), common snipe, and mourning, white-winged, and Eurasian collared-dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow portable or temporary blinds and stands, but you must remove them at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) We prohibit falconry.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of black-tailed and antelope jackrabbit; cottontail rabbit; badger; bobcat; coati; kit and gray fox; raccoon; ringtail; coyote; and hog-nosed, hooded, spotted, and striped skunk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule and white-tailed deer, javelina, mountain lion, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit the use of dogs when hunting big game.


(4) [Reserved]


(c) *Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require hunters to obtain a visitor access permit (Department of Defense form/requirement) from the refuge.


(ii) We prohibit falconry.


(iii) We allow dogs only for the pointing and retrieval of birds.


(iv) We allow hunting only during the late season dove hunt.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's quail, Eurasian collared-dove, desert cottontail rabbit, antelope jackrabbit and black-tailed jackrabbit, coyote, bobcat, and kit and gray fox in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We do not allow wheeled carts in designated Wilderness.


(iii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of desert bighorn sheep, mule deer, and mountain lion on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We require Special Use Permits for all guides (FWS Form 3-1383-C), stock animals (FWS Form 3-1383-G), and bighorn sheep hunters (FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(iii) We prohibit the use of dogs when hunting big game.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Cibola National Wildlife Refuge*—

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen (gallinule), common snipe, mourning and white-winged dove, and Eurasian collared-dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only shotgun and archery.


(ii) Hunters may only hunt during designated days and times.


(iii) You must remove all temporary blinds, boats, and decoys from the refuge following each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) The Hart Mine Marsh area is open to entry from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. from October 1 through March 14.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's quail and cottontail rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) For cottontail rabbit, we allow only shotgun, archery, handgun, rifle, and muzzleloader.


(ii) For quail, we allow only shotgun, archery, and handgun shooting shot.


(iii) You may hunt cottontail rabbit from September 1 through the last day of the respective State's quail season.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow rifle, shotgun, handgun, muzzleloader, and archery, except for archery-only hunts.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and frogging subject to the following condition: Cibola Lake is open to fishing and frogging from March 15 through September 30.


(e) *Havasu National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning and white-winged dove, duck, American coot, common gallinule, goose, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit falconry.


(ii) We allow only shotguns, crossbows, and archery equipment for hunting.


(iii) You must remove all decoys, boats, trash items, cameras, temporary blinds, stands, and other equipment at the end of each day's activities (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(v) The following conditions apply to Pintail Slough (Quota Hunt Area):


(A) We require a fee for Quota waterfowl hunting.


(B) We limit the number of persons at each waterfowl hunt blind or field to four. Observers cannot hold shells or guns for hunting unless in possession of a valid State hunting license and stamps.


(C) Waterfowl hunters must hunt within the designated boundaries of their assigned blind or field.


(D) You may use only native vegetation or materials for making or fixing hunt blinds.


(E) We allow waterfowl hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Waterfowl hunting ends at 2 p.m. MST (Mountain Standard Time). Hunters must be out of the Pintail Slough area by 3 p.m. MST.


(F) We allow dove hunting at the Pintail Slough Quota Hunt Area outside the general State waterfowl season.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's quail, cottontail rabbit, Eurasian collared-dove, African collared-dove, black-tailed jackrabbit, bobcat, coyote, gray fox, and kit fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply, except that we also allow pneumatic weapons, muzzleloaders, and hand guns for upland game hunting.


(ii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(iii) We allow hunting of Gambel's quail, cottontail rabbit, Eurasian collared-dove, African collared-dove, black-tailed jackrabbit, bobcat, coyote, gray fox, and kit fox from September 1-March 15.


(iv) We allow the incidental take of Gambel's quail, cottontail rabbit, Eurasian collared-dove, African collared-dove, black-tailed jackrabbit, bobcat, coyote, gray fox, and kit fox in the Pintail Slough Quota Hunt Area during the general State waterfowl season by hunters possessing a valid permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at their designated waterfowl hunt blind or field.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of desert bighorn sheep and the incidental take of feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow only rifles for desert bighorn sheep hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section applies.


(ii) We prohibit overnight boat mooring and shore anchoring unless actively fishing, as governed by State regulations.


(f) *Imperial National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning and white-winged dove, duck, coot, moorhen (gallinule), goose, and common snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow shotgun, archery, and crossbow.


(ii) You must remove temporary blinds, boats, and decoys from the refuge following each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's quail, cottontail rabbit, coyote, and gray fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) For hunting quail, we allow shotgun, handgun shooting shot, archery, and crossbow.


(ii) For hunting cottontail rabbit, coyote, and fox, we allow shotgun, rifle, handgun, muzzleloader, archery, and crossbow.


(iii) We allow cottontail rabbit hunting from September 1 to the close of the State quail season.


(iv) We allow coyote and fox hunting only during the State quail season.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer and desert bighorn sheep on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing and frogging for bullfrog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We close posted portions of Martinez Lake and Ferguson Lake to entry from October 1 through the last day of February.


(g) *Kofa National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's quail, cottontail rabbit, coyote, and gray fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting of coyote, fox, and cottontail rabbit during the State quail season only.


(ii) For hunting quail, we allow shotgun, archery, crossbow, and handgun shooting shot.


(iii) For hunting cottontail rabbit, coyote, and fox, we allow shotgun, rifle, muzzleloader, handgun, archery, and crossbow.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer and desert bighorn sheep on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(h) *Leslie Canyon National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning, white-winged, and Eurasian collared-dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit falconry.


(ii) We prohibit the use of dogs.


(iii) We prohibit pneumatic weapons.


(iv) You must remove all equipment, cameras, temporary blinds, stands, etc., at the end of each day's activities (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) We allow Eurasian collared-dove hunting only during mourning and white-winged dove seasons.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's and scaled quail; cottontail; black-tailed jackrabbit; gray fox; coati; badger; striped, hooded, spotted, and hog-nosed skunk; bobcat; raccoon; ring-tailed cat; and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(ii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(iii) We allow quail hunting during State seasons. For all other upland game species, we only allow hunting when a species season dates overlap with a general or archery State deer or javelina hunt season, except for youth-only seasons.


(iii) We will allow hunting of these upland game species only when the State season dates overlap with a general or archery State deer and/or javelina hunt season.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer, white-tailed deer, javelina, and black bear on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting of black bear only when the State season dates overlap with a general or archery State deer or javelina hunt season, except for youth-only seasons.


(4) [Reserved]


(i) *San Bernardino National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning and white-winged dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs while hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Gambel's, scaled, and Mearns' quail and cottontail rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only shotgun.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs while quail hunting.


(iii) Cottontail rabbit season opens on September 1 and closes on the last day of the State quail season.


(3)-(4) [Reserved]



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54104, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48849, Aug. 31, 2021]




