# § 622.380   Size limits.

All size limits in this section are minimum size limits unless specified otherwise. A fish not in compliance with its size limit, as specified in this section, in or from the Gulf, South Atlantic, or Mid-Atlantic EEZ, as appropriate, may not be possessed, sold, or purchased. A fish not in compliance with its size limit must be released immediately with a minimum of harm. The operator of a vessel that fishes in the EEZ is responsible for ensuring that fish on board are in compliance with the size limits specified in this section.


(a) *Cobia*—(1) *Gulf migratory group.* (i) *Gulf zone*—36 inches (91.4 cm), fork length.


(ii) *Florida east coast zone.* 36 inches (91.4 cm), fork length.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) King mackerel in the Gulf, South Atlantic, or Mid-Atlantic—24 inches (61.0 cm), fork length, except that a vessel fishing under a quota for king mackerel specified in § 622.384(b) may possess undersized king mackerel in quantities not exceeding 5 percent, by weight, of the king mackerel on board.


(c) Spanish mackerel in the Gulf, South Atlantic, or Mid-Atlantic—12 inches (30.5 cm), fork length, except that a vessel fishing under a quota for Spanish mackerel specified in § 622.384(c) may possess undersized Spanish mackerel in quantities not exceeding 5 percent, by weight, of the Spanish mackerel on board.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 36347, Aug. 4, 2017; 84 FR 4736, Feb. 19, 2019; 85 FR 10331, Feb. 24, 2020; 87 FR 63966, Oct. 21, 2022]






