# § 706.11   Requesting non-public records.

(a) *General information*—(1) *How to submit.* To make a request for records a requester must submit a written request to DFC's FOIA Office either by mail to US International Development Finance Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527 or electronic mail to *foia@dfc.gov.* The envelope or subject line should read “Freedom of Information Request” to ensure proper routing. The request is considered received by DFC upon actual receipt by DFC's FOIA Office.


(2) *Records about oneself.* A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself must verify his or her identity by providing a notarized statement or a statement under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization, stating that the requester is the person he or she claims to be.


(3) *Records about a third party.* Where a request for records pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting a notarized authorization signed by that individual, a declaration by that individual made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, proof of guardianship, or proof that the individual is deceased (*e.g.,* a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). DFC may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.


(b) *Description of records sought.* Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable DFC personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist DFC in identifying the requested records, such as the project name, contract number, date or date range, country, title, name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, or reference number. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records sought. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact DFC's FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. If a requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, DFC will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, DFC's response to the request may be delayed.


(c) *Format.* Requests may state a preferred format for released records including electronic formats. The records will be provided in the preferred format if the record is readily reproducible in that format. If you do not state a preference, you will receive any released records in the format most convenient to DFC.


(d) *Requester information.* Requests must include the requester's name and contact information, such as phone number, email address, or mailing address, to assist DFC in communicating with them and providing the released records.


(e) *Fees.* You should state your willingness to pay fees under these regulations or, alternately, your willingness to pay up to a specified limit. If you believe that you qualify for a partial or total fee waiver under 706.24 you should request a waiver and provide justification as required by 706.24. If your request does not contain a statement of your willingness to pay fees or a request for a fee waiver, DFC will consider your request an agreement to pay up to $25.00 in fees.



---

[N] [82 FR 20434, May 2, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]






