# ยง 3.22   Supplemental filings.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Commission, the Directors of the Market Participants Division or Division of Enforcement or either Director's designee, or the National Futures Association may, at any time, give written notice to any registrant, applicant for registration, or person required to be registered:


(a)(1) That derogatory information has come to the attention of the staff of the Commission or the National Futures Association which, if true, could constitute grounds upon which to base a determination that the person is unfit to become, or to remain, registered or temporarily licensed in accordance with the Act or the regulations thereunder and setting forth such information in the notice and requesting the person to provide evidence mitigating the seriousness of the statutory disqualification set forth in the notice and evidence that the person has undergone rehabilitation, or


(2) That the Commission or the National Futures Association has undertaken a routine or periodic review of the registrant's fitness to remain registered or temporarily licensed; and


(b) That the person, or any individual who, based upon his or her relationship with that person is required to file a Form 8-R in accordance with the requirements of this part, as applicable, must, within such period of time as the Commission or the National Futures Association may specify, complete and file with the Commission or the National Futures Association a current Form 7-R, or if appropriate, a Form 8-R, in accordance with the instructions thereto.


(c) Failure to provide the information required under paragraph (b) of this section is a violation of the Commission's regulations which itself constitutes grounds upon which to base a determination that the person is unfit to become or to remain so registered.



---

[N] [45 FR 8049, Dec. 5, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 27551, June 25, 1982; 49 FR 39532, Oct. 9, 1984; 53 FR 8433, Mar. 15, 1988; 57 FR 23148, June 2, 1992; 67 FR 62351, Oct. 7, 2002; 77 FR 51906, Aug. 28, 2012; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013] 




