# ยง 15.17   Final determination.

(a) In hearings conducted under ยง 15.14, the adjudicating official shall, subject to subsection (d), make the final determination on the basis of the certified record, findings, conclusions, and recommendations presented by the administrative law judge.


(b) Prior to making a final determination, the adjudicating official shall give the parties an opportunity to submit the following, within thirty days after the submission of the administrative law judge's recommendations:


(1) Proposed findings and determinations;


(2) Exceptions to the recommendations of the administrative law judge;


(3) Supporting reasons for the exceptions or proposed findings or determinations; and


(4) Final briefs summarizing the arguments presented at the hearing.


(c) The adjudicating official shall, within a reasonable time after receiving the parties' submissions, consult with the Secretary and then make a final determination. Copies of the final determination shall be served upon each party to the proceeding. Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the final determination made by the adjudicating official under this rule shall constitute the final agency action.


(d) Within 30 days of any final determination made by the adjudicating official, the Attorney General may exercise discretion to review the final determination. In the event the Attorney General exercises discretion to review a decision, the Attorney General's final determination shall constitute the final agency action.






