# ยง 128.201   What other eligibility requirements apply for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB?

(a) *Suspension and debarment.* (1) In order to be eligible for VOSB or SDVOSB certification and to remain certified, the concern and any of its owners must not have an active exclusion in SAM.


(2) An Applicant or Participant must immediately notify SBA of any active exclusion.


(3) If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm has been suspended from Federal Government contracting, SBA will propose the firm for decertification pursuant to ยง 128.310.


(4) If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm has been debarred from federal government contracting, SBA will remove the Participant from the certification database immediately, notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 128.310.




(b) *Federal financial obligations.* A business concern is ineligible to be certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB or to participate in the VetCert program if either the concern or any of its principals has failed to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, including unresolved tax liens and defaults on Federal loans or other Federally assisted financing. However, a small business concern may be eligible if the concern or the affected principals can demonstrate that they are current on an approved repayment plan, or the financial obligations owed have been settled and discharged/forgiven by the Federal Government.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024]






