# ยง 411.35   Limitations on charges to a beneficiary or other party when a workers' compensation plan, a no-fault insurer, or an employer group health plan is primary payer.

(a) *Definition.* As used in this section *Medicare-covered services* means services for which Medicare benefits are payable or would be payable except for the Medicare deductible and coinsurance provisions and the amounts payable by the primary payer.


(b) *Applicability.* This section applies when a workers' compensation plan, a no-fault insurer or an employer group health plan is primary to Medicare.


(c) *Basic rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the amounts the provider or supplier may collect or seek to collect, for the Medicare-covered services from the beneficiary or any entity other than the workers' compensation plan, the no-fault insurer, or the employer plan and Medicare, are limited to the following:


(1) The amount paid or payable by the primary payer to the beneficiary. If this amount exceeds the amount payable by Medicare (without regard to deductible or coinsurance), the provider or supplier may retain the primary payment in full without violating the terms of the provider agreement or the conditions of assignment.


(2) The amount, if any, by which the applicable Medicare deductible and coinsurance amounts exceed any primary payment made or due to the beneficiary or to the provider or supplier for the medical services.


(3) The amount of any charges that may be made to a beneficiary under ยง 413.35 of this chapter when cost limits are applied to the services, or under ยง 489.32 of this chapter when the services are partially covered, but only to the extent that the primary payer is not responsible for those charges.


(d) *Exception.* The limitations of paragraph (c) of this section do not apply if the services were furnished by a supplier that is not a participating supplier and has not accepted assignment for the services or claimed payment under ยง 424.64 of this chapter.




