# § 169.717   Fireman's outfit.

(a) Each vessel greater than 120 feet but less than 150 feet in length must carry one fireman's outfit consisting of—


(1) One pressure-demand, open-circuit, self-contained breathing apparatus, approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and having at a minimum a 30-minute air supply and a full facepiece; but a self-contained compressed-air breathing apparatus previously approved under part 60, subpart 160.011, of this chapter may continue in use as required equipment if it was part of the vessel's equipment on November 23, 1992, and as long as it is maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection;


(2) One lifeline with a belt or a suitable harness;


(3) One approved flame safety lamp;


(4) One flashlight listed by an independent testing laboratory as suitable for use in hazardous locations;


(5) One fire ax;


(6) Boots and gloves of rubber or other electrically nonconducting material;


(7) A rigid helmet that provides effective protection against impact; and 


(8) Protective clothing.


(b) Each vessel 150 feet or greater must carry two fireman's outfits. The outfits must be stowed in widely separated accessible locations.


(c) Lifelines must be of steel or bronze wire rope. Steel wire rope must be either inherently corrosion resistant or made so by galvanizing or thinning. Each end must be fitted with a hook with keeper having a throat opening which can be readily slipped over a 
5/8-inch bolt. The total length of the lifeline is dependent upon the size and arrangement of the vessel, and more than one line may be hooked together to achieve the necessary length. No individual length of lifeline may be less than 50 feet in length. The assembled lifeline must have a minimum breaking strength of 1,500 pounds.


(d) A complete recharge must be carried out for each self-contained breathing apparatus and a complete set of spare batteries and bulb must be carried for each flashlight. The spares must be stowed in the same location as the equipment it is to reactivate.


(e) Protective clothing must be constructed of material that will protect the skin from the heat of fire and burns from scalding steam. The outer surface must be water resistant.



---

[N] [CGD 83-005, 51 FR 896, Jan. 9, 1986, as amended by CGD 86-036, 57 FR 48326, Oct. 23, 1992; USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76707, Sept. 18, 2024]






