# § 181.33   Customs processing procedures.

(a) *Status determination.* After receipt of a post-importation claim under § 181.32 of this part, the Center director shall determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.


(b) *Pending protest, petition or request for reliquidation or judicial review.* If the Center director determines that any protest or any petition or request for reliquidation relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director shall suspend action on the claim filed under this subpart until the decision on the protest, petition or request becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director shall suspend action on the claim filed under this subpart until judicial review has been completed.


(c) *Allowance of claim*—(1) *Unliquidated entry.* If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director shall take into account the claim for refund under this subpart in connection with the liquidation of the entry.


(2) *Liquidated entry.* If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order to effect a refund of duties pursuant to this subpart. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or petition for reliquidation or as a result of judicial review, the Center director shall reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund under this subpart.


(3) *Information to be provided to Canada or Mexico.* If any information is provided to Customs pursuant to § 181.32(b) (4) or (5) of this part, that information, together with notice of the allowance of the claim and the amount of duty refunded pursuant to this subpart, shall be provided by the Center director to the customs administration of the country from which the good was exported.


(d) *Denial of claim*—(1) *General.* The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under this subpart if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of this subpart, if the Certificate of Origin submitted under § 181.32(b)(2) of this part cannot be accepted as valid (see § 181.22(c) of this part), or if, following initiation of an origin verification under § 181.72(a) of this part, the Center director determines either that the imported good did not qualify as an originating good at the time of importation or that a basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 181.72(d), § 181.74(c) or § 181.76(c) of this part.


(2) *Unliquidated entry.* If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director shall deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and written notice of the denial and the reason therefor shall be given to the importer and, in the case of a denial on the merits, to any person who completed and signed a Certificate of Origin relating to the good. Each notice of denial given to a person who completed and signed a Certificate of Origin shall also include a statement regarding the right to file a protest against the denial under part 174 of this chapter. 


(3) *Liquidated entry.* If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or petition for reliquidation or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director shall give written notice of the denial and the reason therefor to the importer and, in the case of a denial on the merits, to any person who completed and signed a Certificate of Origin relating to the good. Each notice of denial given to a person who completed and signed a Certificate of Origin shall also include a statement regarding the right to file a protest against the denial under part 174 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [T.D. 95-68, 60 FR 46364, Sept. 6, 1995, as amended by CBP Dec. No. 17-08, 82 FR 35065, July 28, 2017]




