# ยง 21.4236   Tutorial assistance.

(a) *Enrollment.* A veteran or eligible person may receive supplemental monetary assistance to provide tutorial services if he or she:


(1) Is pursuing a post-secondary educational program on a half-time or more basis at an educational institution, and


(2) Has a deficiency in a subject which is indispensable to the satisfactory pursuit of an approved program of education.


(b) *Approval.* The Department of Veterans Affairs will grant approval when:


(1) The educational institution certifies that:


(i) Individualized tutorial assistance is essential to correct a deficiency in a specified subject or subjects required as a part of, or which is prerequisite to, or which is indispensable to the satisfactory pursuit of an approved program of education;


(ii) The tutor selected:


(A) Is qualified, and


(B) Is not the parent, spouse, child, brother or sister of the veteran or eligible person; and


(iii) The charges for this assistance do not exceed the customary charges for such tutorial assistance; and


(2) The assistance is furnished on an individual basis.


(c) *Limits on tutorial assistance.* (1) VA will authorize the cost of tutorial assistance in an amount not to exceed $100 per month. 


(2) The total amount of all tutorial assistance provided under this section will not exceed $1200.


(d) *Entitlement charge.* VA will make no charge against the veteran's or eligible person's entitlement to educational assistance for any amount of tutorial assistance authorized.



---

[N] [48 FR 37989, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 19935, May 13, 1985; 55 FR 28027, July 9, 1990; 61 FR 26114, May 24, 1996; 74 FR 14670, Mar. 31, 2009]




