# ยง 1028.100   Definitions.

Refer to ยง 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in ยง 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1028. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:


(a) *Acquiring institution* means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to contract, directly or indirectly, with merchants or other persons to process transactions, including cash advances, involving the operator's credit card.


(b) *Credit card* has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(k). It includes charge cards as defined in 12 CFR 226.2(15).


(c) *Foreign bank* means any organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country; engages in the business of banking; is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authority of the country of its organization or the country of its principal banking operations; and receives deposits in the regular course of its business. For purposes of this definition:


(1) The term foreign bank includes a branch of a foreign bank in a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.


(2) The term foreign bank does not include:


(i) A U.S. agency or branch of a foreign bank; and


(ii) An insured bank organized under the laws of a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.


(d) *Issuing institution* means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to issue the operator's credit card.


(e) *Operator of a credit card system* means any person doing business in the United States that operates a system for clearing and settling transactions in which the operator's credit card, whether acting as a credit or debit card, is used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. To fall within this definition, the operator must also have authorized another person (whether located in the United States or not) to be an issuing or acquiring institution for the operator's credit card.


(f) *Operator's credit card* means a credit card capable of being used in the United States that:


(1) Has been issued by an issuing institution; and


(2) Can be used in the operator's credit card system.




