# § 63.119   Storage vessel provisions—reference control technology.

(a) For each storage vessel to which this subpart applies, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section according to the schedule provisions of § 63.100. For each pressure vessel to which this subpart applies, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(7) of this section.








(1) For each Group 1 storage vessel (as defined in table 5 of this subpart for existing sources and table 6 of the subpart for new sources) storing a liquid for which the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic hazardous air pollutants in the liquid is less than 76.6 kilopascals, the owner or operator shall reduce hazardous air pollutants emissions to the atmosphere either by operating and maintaining a fixed roof and internal floating roof, an external floating roof, an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof, a closed vent system and control device, routing the emissions to a process or a fuel gas system, or vapor balancing in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this section, or equivalent as provided in § 63.121 of this subpart.


(2) For each Group 1 storage vessel (as defined in table 5 of this subpart for existing sources and table 6 of this subpart for new sources) storing a liquid for which the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic hazardous air pollutants in the liquid is greater than or equal to 76.6 kilopascals, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (e) of this section, route the emissions to a process or a fuel gas system as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, vapor balance as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, or equivalent as provided in § 63.121 of this subpart.


(3) For each Group 2 storage vessel that is not part of an emissions average as described in § 63.150 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirement in § 63.123(a) of this subpart and is not required to comply with any other provisions in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 of this subpart. 


(4) For each Group 2 storage vessel that is part of an emissions average, the owner or operator shall comply with the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.150 of this subpart. 


(5) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11), if the storage vessel (of any capacity and vapor pressure) stores liquid containing ethylene oxide such that the storage vessel is considered to be in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified elsewhere in this section.


(i) Reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare; or


(ii) Reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a control device that reduces ethylene oxide by greater than or equal to 99.9 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each storage vessel vent.


(6) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), for each storage vessel subject to paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (5) of this section, the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section during storage vessel shutdown operations (*i.e.,* emptying and degassing of a storage vessel) until the vapor space concentration in the storage vessel is less than 10 percent of the LEL, or the organic HAP concentration in the vapor space is equal to or less than of 5,000 ppmv as methane. The owner or operator must determine the concentration using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications. The owner or operator must determine the organic HAP concentration using Method 18 or Method 25A of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter; or alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part.


(i) Remove liquids from the storage vessel as much as practicable.


(ii) Comply with one of the following:


(A) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare.


(B) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 95 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of non-flare control devices.


(C) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by routing emissions to a fuel gas system or process and meet the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(iii) Maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 63.102(f) of subpart F of this part including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.


(iv) For floating roof storage vessels, the storage vessel may be opened to set up equipment (*e.g.,* making connections to a temporary control device) for the shutdown operations but must not be actively degassed during this time period.


(7) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), for each pressure vessel as defined in § 63.101 that is considered a Group 1 storage vessel (as defined in table 5 of this subpart for existing sources and table 6 of the subpart for new sources), you must operate and maintain the pressure vessel, as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The pressure vessel must be designed to operate with no detectable emissions at all times.


(ii) Except for connectors in ethylene oxide service, gas/vapor or light liquid valves in ethylene oxide service, light liquid pumps in ethylene oxide service, and PRDs in ethylene oxide service, and except for equipment that meet the criteria specified in § 63.168(h) and (i) (for valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service) and in § 63.174(f) and (h) (for connectors in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service), you must monitor each point on the pressure vessel through which total organic hazardous air pollutants could potentially be emitted by conducting initial and annual performance tests using Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter


(iii) Each instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv is a violation.


(iv) Estimate the flow rate and total regulated material emissions from the defect. Assume the pressure vessel has been emitting for half of the time since the last performance test, unless other information supports a different assumption.


(v) Whenever total organic hazardous air pollutants are in the pressure vessel, you must operate the pressure vessel as a closed system that vents through a closed vent system to a control device as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, as applicable. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, a release of total organic hazardous air pollutants through a pressure vessel's pressure relief device to the atmosphere is a violation.


(b) The owner or operator who elects to use a fixed roof and an internal floating roof, as defined in § 63.111, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) The internal floating roof shall be floating on the liquid surface at all times except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports during the periods specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section. 


(i) During the initial fill. 


(ii) After the vessel has been completely emptied and degassed. 


(iii) When the vessel is completely emptied before being subsequently refilled. 


(2) When the floating roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as soon as practical. 


(3) Each internal floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the roof edge. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the closure device shall consist of one of the devices listed in paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section. 


(i) A liquid-mounted seal as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart. 


(ii) A metallic shoe seal as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart. 


(iii) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal may be vapor- mounted, but both must be continuous seals. 


(iv) If the internal floating roof is equipped with a vapor-mounted seal as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for one of the seal options specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), and (b)(3)(iii) of this section does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) and (b)(3)(iv)(B) of this section. 


(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. 


(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994. 


(4) Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. 






(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(viii) of this section, each internal floating roof shall meet the specifications listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (vii) of this section, and (b)(5)(ix) through (xii) of this section.




(i) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface. 




(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(5)(ix) of this section, each opening in the internal floating roof except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains shall be equipped with a cover or lid. The cover or lid shall be equipped with a gasket.




(iii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purposes of sampling shall be a sample well. Each sample well shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening. 


(iv) Each automatic bleeder vent shall be gasketed. 


(v) Each rim space vent shall be gasketed. 


(vi) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover. 


(vii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover. 


(viii) If the internal floating roof does not meet any one of the specifications listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(vii) of this section as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for meeting those specifications does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(viii)(A) and (b)(5)(viii)(B) of this section. 


(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. 


(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994. 












(ix) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section no longer applies. Instead, each opening in the internal floating roof except those for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents), rim space vents, leg sleeves, and deck drains shall be equipped with a deck cover. The deck cover shall be equipped with a gasket between the cover and the deck.


(x) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), each opening for an unslotted guidepole shall be equipped with a pole wiper, and each unslotted guidepole shall be equipped with a gasketed cap on the top of the guidepole.


(xi) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), each opening for a slotted guidepole shall be equipped with one of the control device configurations specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(xi)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) A pole wiper and a pole float. The wiper or seal of the pole float shall be at or above the height of the pole wiper.


(B) A pole wiper and a pole sleeve.


(xii) Each unslotted guidepole cap shall be closed at all times except when gauging the liquid level or taking liquid samples.








(6) Each cover or lid on any opening in the internal floating roof shall be closed (i.e., no visible gaps), except when the cover or lid must be open for access. Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be bolted or fastened so as to be air-tight when they are closed. Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting. 


(7) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), owners and operators that use a continuous sweep, purge, or inert blanket between the internal floating roof and fixed roof that causes a pressure/vacuum vent to remain continuously open to the atmosphere where uncontrolled emissions are greater than or equal to 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP must route emissions through a closed vent system and control device and comply with paragraph (e) of this section.










(c) The owner or operator who elects to use an external floating roof, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. 


(1) Each external floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the roof edge. 


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, the closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal. 


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, the primary seal shall be either a metallic shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal. 


(iii) Except during the inspections required by § 63.120(b) of this subpart, both the primary seal and the secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the storage vessel in a continuous fashion. 


(iv) If the external floating roof is equipped with a liquid-mounted or metallic shoe primary seal as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for a secondary seal in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) and (c)(1)(iv)(B) of this section. 


(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. 


(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994. 


(v) If the external floating roof is equipped with a vapor-mounted primary seal and a secondary seal as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for a liquid-mounted or metallic shoe primary seal in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(v)(A) and (c)(1)(v)(B) of this section. 


(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. 


(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994. 


(2) Each external floating roof shall meet the specifications listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(xii) of this section. 


(i) Except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents, each opening in the noncontact external floating roof shall provide a projection below the liquid surface except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(xii) of this section. 


(ii) Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof is to be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position (i.e., no visible gap) at all times except when the cover or lid must be open for access. Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be bolted or fastened so as to be air-tight when they are closed. 


(iii) Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. 


(iv) Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the roof is being floated off the roof leg supports or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting. 


(v) Automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents are to be gasketed. 


(vi) Each roof drain that empties into the stored liquid is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening. 


(vii) Each unslotted guide pole well shall have a gasketed sliding cover or a flexible fabric sleeve seal. 


(viii) Each unslotted guide pole shall have on the end of the pole a gasketed cap which is closed at all times except when gauging the liquid level or taking liquid samples. 


(ix) Each slotted guide pole well shall have a gasketed sliding cover or a flexible fabric sleeve seal. 


(x) Each slotted guide pole shall have a gasketed float or other device which closes off the liquid surface from the atmosphere. 


(xi) Each gauge hatch/sample well shall have a gasketed cover which is closed at all times except when the hatch or well must be open for access. 


(xii) If each opening in a noncontact external floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents does not provide a projection below the liquid surface as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for providing these projections below the liquid surface does not apply until the earlier of the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(xii)(A) and (c)(2)(xii)(B) of this section. 


(A) The next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. 


(B) No later than 10 years after April 22, 1994.


(3) The external floating roof shall be floating on the liquid surface at all times except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports during the periods specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section. 


(i) During the initial fill. 


(ii) After the vessel has been completely emptied and degassed. 


(iii) When the vessel is completely emptied before being subsequently refilled. 


(4) When the floating roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as soon as practical. 


(d) The owner or operator who elects to use an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof (i.e., fixed roof installed above external floating roof) to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall comply with paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section. 


(1) Comply with the requirements for internal floating roof vessels specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section; and 


(2) Comply with the requirements for deck fittings that are specified for external floating roof vessels in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(xii) of this section. 


(e) The owner or operator who elects to use a closed vent system and control device, as defined in § 63.111, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or the owner or operator who meets the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the control device shall be designed and operated to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 95 percent or greater. Except as specified in § 63.108(a), if a flare is used as the control device, it shall meet the specifications described in the general control device requirements of § 63.11(b).


(2) If the owner or operator can demonstrate that a control device installed on a storage vessel on or before December 31, 1992 is designed to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by greater than or equal to 90 percent but less than 95 percent, then the control device is required to be operated to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 90 percent or greater.


(3) Except as specified in (e)(7) of this section, periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device, during which the control device does not meet the specifications of paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours per year.


(4) Except as specified in (e)(7) of this section, the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for control devices do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance.


(5) Except as specified in (e)(7) of this section, the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for control devices do not apply during a control system malfunction.


(6) An owner or operator may use a combination of control devices to achieve the required reduction of total organic hazardous air pollutants specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. An owner or operator may use a combination of control devices installed on a storage vessel on or before December 31, 1992 to achieve the required reduction of total organic hazardous air pollutants specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(7) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraphs (e)(3) through (5) of this section no longer apply. Instead, whenever gases or vapors containing total organic HAP are routed from a storage vessel through a closed vent system connected to a control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, the control device must be operating, except the control device may only be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the control device. When the control device is bypassed, the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The control device may only be bypassed when the planned routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that storage vessel emissions are vented to the control device.


(ii) On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform planned routine maintenance shall not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.


(iii) The level of material in the storage vessel shall not be increased during periods that the closed vent system or control device is bypassed to perform planned routine maintenance.






(f) The owner or operator who elects to route emissions to a fuel gas system or to a process, as defined in § 63.111 of this subpart, to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section, as applicable. 


(1) If emissions are routed to a fuel gas system, there is no requirement to conduct a performance test or design evaluation. If emissions are routed to a process, the organic hazardous air pollutants in the emissions shall predominantly meet one of, or a combination of, the ends specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) of this section. The owner or operator shall comply with the compliance demonstration requirements in § 63.120(f). 


(i) Recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in that process; 


(ii) Transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not organic hazardous air pollutants; 


(iii) Incorporated into a product; and/or 


(iv) Recovered. 


(2) If the emissions are conveyed by a system other than hard-piping, any conveyance system operated under positive pressure shall be subject to the requirements of § 63.148 of this subpart. 


(3) The fuel gas system or process shall be operating at all times when organic hazardous air pollutants emissions are routed to it except as provided in § 63.102(a)(1) and in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. Whenever the owner or operator bypasses the fuel gas system or process, the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirement in § 63.123(h). Bypassing is permitted if the owner or operator complies with one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The liquid level in the storage vessel is not increased;


(ii) The emissions are routed through a closed vent system to a control device complying with § 63.119(e); or


(iii) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section, the total aggregate amount of time during which the emissions bypass the fuel gas system or process during the calendar year without being routed to a control device, for all reasons (except start-ups/shutdowns/malfunctions or product changeovers of flexible operation units and periods when the storage vessel has been emptied and degassed), does not exceed 240 hours.


(iv) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section no longer applies. Instead, if you elect to route emissions from storage vessels to a fuel gas system or to a process to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (5) of this section, the fuel gas system or process may only be bypassed when the planned routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that storage vessel emissions are vented to the fuel gas system or process, and the total aggregate amount of time during which the breathing loss emissions bypass the fuel gas system or process during the calendar year without being routed to a control device must not exceed 240 hours. The level of material in the storage vessel shall not be increased during periods that the fuel gas system or process is bypassed to perform routine maintenance.


(g) The owner or operator who elects to vapor balance to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section shall comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section and the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.123(i).


(1) The vapor balancing system must be designed and operated to route organic HAP vapors displaced from loading of the storage vessel to the railcar, tank truck, or barge from which the storage vessel is filled.


(2) Tank trucks and railcars must have a current certification in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation pressure test requirements of 49 CFR part 180 for tank trucks and 49 CFR 173.31 for railcars. Barges must have a current certification of vapor-tightness through testing in accordance with 40 CFR 63.565.


(3) Hazardous air pollutants must only be unloaded from tank trucks or railcars when vapor collection systems are connected to the storage vessel's vapor collection system.


(4) No pressure relief device on the storage vessel, or on the railcar or tank truck, shall open during loading or as a result of diurnal temperature changes (breathing losses).


(5) Pressure relief devices must be set to no less than 2.5 psig at all times to prevent breathing losses. Pressure relief devices may be set at values less than 2.5 psig if the owner or operator provides rationale in the notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section for each pressure relief valve.


(i) The pressure relief valve shall be monitored quarterly using the method described in § 63.180(b).


(ii) An instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater defines a leak.


(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 days after it is detected, and the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.181(d)(1) through (4).


(6) Railcars, tank trucks, or barges that deliver HAP to a storage vessel must be reloaded or cleaned at a facility that utilizes the control techniques specified in paragraph (g)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) The railcar, tank truck, or barge must be connected to a closed vent system with a control device that reduces inlet emissions of HAP by 95 percent by weight or greater.


(ii) A vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect organic HAP vapor displaced from the tank truck, railcar, or barge during reloading must be used to route the collected HAP vapor to the storage vessel from which the liquid being transferred originated.


(7) The owner or operator of the facility where the railcar, tank truck, or barge is reloaded or cleaned must comply with paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Submit to the owner or operator of the storage vessel and to the Administrator a written certification that the reloading or cleaning facility will meet the requirements of this section. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the owner or operator of the storage vessel giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (g)(7).


(ii) If complying with paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section, comply with the requirements for closed vent system and control device specified in §§ 63.119 through 63.123. The notification and reporting requirements in § 63.122 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.


(iii) If complying with paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section, keep the records specified in § 63.123(i)(3).


(iv) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k) at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to paragraph (g) of this section, compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of paragraph (g)(7)(ii) or (iii) of this section. You must identify in your Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.152(b), the subpart to the part 63 with which the owner or operator of the reloading or cleaning facility complies.









---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 2747, Jan. 17, 1997; 69 FR 76863, Dec. 23, 2004; 71 FR 76614, Dec. 21, 2006; 89 FR 43188, May 16, 2024]




