# ยง 531.406   Creditable service.

(a) *General.* Civilian employment in any branch of the Federal Government (executive, legislative, or judicial) or with a Government corporation as defined in section 103 of title 5, United States Code, is creditable service in the computation of a waiting period. Service credit is given during this employment for periods of annual, sick, and other leave with pay; advanced annual and sick leave; service under a temporary or term appointment; and service under an interim appointment made under ยง 772.102 of this chapter. Depending on the specific provision of law or regulation, service may be creditable for the completion of one waiting period or for the completion of successive waiting periods. Paragraph (b) of this section identifies service which is creditable in the computation of a single waiting period. Paragraph (c) identifies service which is creditable in the computation of successive waiting periods. 


(b) *Service creditable for one within-grade increase.* (1) Military service as defined in section 8331(13) of title 5, United States Code, is creditable service in the computation of a waiting period when an employee is reemployed with the Federal Government not later than 52 calendar weeks after separation from such service or hospitalization continuing thereafter for a period of not more than one year. 


(2) Time in a nonpay status (based upon the tour of duty from which the time was charged) is creditable service in the computation of a waiting period for an employee with a scheduled tour of duty when it does not exceed an aggregate of:


(i) Two workweeks in the waiting period for an employee whose rate of basic pay is less than the rate of basic pay for step 4 of the applicable grade;


(ii) Four workweeks in the waiting period for an employee whose rate of basic pay is equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay for step 4 of the applicable grade and less than the rate of basic pay for step 7 of the applicable grade; and


(iii) Six workweeks in the waiting period for an employee whose rate of basic pay is equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay for step 7 of the applicable grade.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, time in a nonpay status (based upon the tour of duty from which the time was charged) that is in excess of the allowable amount shall extend a waiting period by the excess amount.


(4) Service by an employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c), who moves, within the civil service employment system of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, and without a break in service of more than 3 days, to a position classified and paid under the General Schedule, is creditable service in the computation of a waiting period.


(c) *Service creditable for succesive within-grade increases.* (1) A leave of absence from a position in which an employee is covered by this subpart, whether the employee is on leave without pay or is considered to be on furlough, is creditable service in the computation of waiting periods for successive within-grade increases when: 


(i) The employee is absent for the purpose of engaging in military service as defined in section 8331(13) of title 5, United States Code, and returns to a pay status through the exercise of a restoration right provided by law, Executive order, or regulation; 


(ii) The employee is receiving injury compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code; 


(iii) The employee is performing service that is creditable under section 8332(b) (5) or (7) of title 5, United States Code; 


(iv) The employee is temporarily employed by another agency in a position covered by this subpart; or 


(v) The employee is assigned to a State or local government or institution of higher education under sections 3371-3376 of title 5, United States Code. 


(2) The period from the date of an employee's separation from Federal service with a restoration or reemployment right granted by law, Executive order, or regulation to the date of restoration or reemployment with the Federal Government through the exercise of that right is creditable service in the computation of waiting periods for successive within-grade increases.


(3) The period during which a separated employee is in receipt of injury compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, as a result of an injury incurred by the employee in the performance of duty is creditable service in the computation of waiting periods for successive within-grade increases when the employee is reemployed with the Federal Government.



---

[N] [46 FR 2319, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 41019, Aug. 14, 1981; 46 FR 43371, Aug. 28, 1981; 46 FR 45747, Sept. 15, 1981; 57 FR 3712, Jan. 31, 1992; 57 FR 12404, Apr. 10, 1992; 59 FR 40794, Aug. 10, 1994; 59 FR 66332, Dec. 28, 1994; 73 FR 66153, Nov. 7, 2008]




