# § 493.15   Laboratories performing waived tests.

(a) *Requirement.* Tests for certificate of waiver must meet the descriptive criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Criteria.* Test systems are simple laboratory examinations and procedures which— 


(1) Are cleared by FDA for home use; 


(2) Employ methodologies that are so simple and accurate as to render the likelihood of erroneous results negligible; or 


(3) Pose no reasonable risk of harm to the patient if the test is performed incorrectly. 


(c) *Certificate of waiver tests.* A laboratory may qualify for a certificate of waiver under section 353 of the PHS Act if it restricts the tests that it performs to one or more of the following tests or examinations (or additional tests added to this list as provided under paragraph (d) of this section) and no others: 


(1) Dipstick or Tablet Reagent Urinalysis (non-automated) for the following: 


(i) Bilirubin; 


(ii) Glucose; 


(iii) Hemoglobin; 


(iv) Ketone; 


(v) Leukocytes; 


(vi) Nitrite; 


(vii) pH; 


(viii) Protein; 


(ix) Specific gravity; and 


(x) Urobilinogen. 


(2) Fecal occult blood-non-automated; 


(3) Ovulation tests—visual color comparison tests for human luteinizing hormone; 


(4) Urine pregnancy tests—visual color comparison tests; 


(5) Erythrocyte sedimentation rate—non-automated; 


(6) Hemoglobin—copper sulfate—non-automated; 


(7) Blood glucose by glucose monitoring devices cleared by the FDA specifically for home use;


(8) Spun microhematocrit; and


(9) Hemoglobin by single analyte instruments with self-contained or component features to perform specimen/reagent interaction, providing direct measurement and readout.


(d) *Revisions to criteria for test categorization and the list of waived tests.* HHS will determine whether a laboratory test meets the criteria listed under paragraph (b) of this section for a waived test. Revisions to the list of waived tests approved by HHS will be published in the _Federal Register_ in a notice with opportunity for comment. 


(e) Laboratories eligible for a certificate of waiver must—


(1) Follow manufacturers' instructions for performing the test; and 


(2) Meet the requirements in subpart B, Certificate of Waiver, of this part. 



---

[N] [57 FR 7139, Feb. 28, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 5221, Jan. 19, 1993; 82 FR 48773, Oct. 20, 2017]




