# § 281.10   Appeals.

(a) *Failure/capability.* (1) Any State agency or ITO may appeal the determination made by FNS on:


(i) Whether or not the reservation definition is met;


(ii) The failure or absence of failure of an agency of State government to properly administer SNAP;


(iii) The capability or incapability of an ITO to administer SNAP;


(iv) The failure of an ITO to properly administer SNAP;


(v) The Federal matching percentage level of administrative funding made available by FNS. To prevail the State agency must show a compelling justification that additional funding is needed for the effective administration of the Program on the reservation.


(2) At the time FNS advises the State agency or ITO of its determination, FNS shall also advise the State agency or ITO of its right to appeal and, except for appeals of funding determinations, shall advise the State agency or ITO of its right to request either a meeting to present its position in person or a review of the record. On appeals of funding determinations, FNS shall advise the State agency or ITO that it may indicate if it wishes a meeting, however, FNS need schedule a meeting only if FNS determines a meeting is warranted to reach a proper adjudication of the matter. Otherwise, FNS shall review supportive information submitted by the State agency or ITO in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(b) *Procedures*—(1) *Time limit.* Any State agency or ITO which wants to appeal an initial FNS determination under paragraph (a) of this section must notify the Administrator of FNS, in writing within 15 days from the date of the determination and must advise FNS if it wishes a meeting or a review of the record.


(2) *Acknowledgment.* Within five days of receipt by the Administrator of FNS of a request for review, FNS shall provide the State agency or ITO by certified mail, return receipt requested, with a written acknowledgement of the request. The acknowledgment shall include the name and address of the official designated by the Administrator to review the appeal. The acknowledgment shall also notify the State agency or ITO that within ten day of receipt of the acknowledgment, the State agency or ITO shall submit written information in support of its position.


(3) *Scheduling a meeting.* If the Administrator, FNS, grants a meeting FNS shall advise the State agency or ITO by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the time, date and location of the meeting at least ten days in advance of the meeting. FNS shall schedule and conduct the meeting and make a decision within 60 days of the receipt of the information submitted in response to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(4) *Review.* If no meeting is conducted, the official designated by the Administrator, FNS, shall review information presented by a State agency or ITO which requests a review, and shall make a final determination in writing within 45 days of the receipt of the State agency's or ITO's information submitted in response to paragraph (b)(2) of this section setting forth in full the reasons for the determination.


(5) *Final decision.* The official's decision after a meeting or a review shall be final.


(c) *Funding and other sanctions.* Any State agency or ITO that wishes to appeal a funding determination made by FNS other than under (a)(5) of this section, or the application of a Federal sanction, shall follow the Administrative Review Procedures set forth in part 276.




