# Appendix D to Part 40—Submission Instructions for Rules and Products


(a) Rule and product submissions shall be submitted electronically to the Commission by a registered entity in a format and manner specified by the Commission, and shall include all of the following information:


1. *Date*—The date of the filing.


2. *Organization*—The name of the organization filing the submission (e.g., CBOT).


3. *Type of Registered Entity*—An indication as to whether the rule or product is being submitted by a designated contract market (DCM), derivatives clearing organization (DCO), swap execution facility (SEF), or swap data repository (SDR).


4. *Type of Filing*—An indication as to whether the filing is a new rule, rule amendment or new product and the section of this part under which the filing is submitted. For a new product to be listed by a DCM or a SEF, an indication whether the new product meets the definition of referenced contract as such term is defined in § 150.1 of this chapter and is described in appendix C to part 150 of this chapter.


5. *Rule Numbers*—For rule filings, the rule number(s) being adopted or modified in the case of rule amendment filings.


6. *Description*—For rule or rule amendment filings, a description of the new rule or rule amendment, including a discussion of its expected impact on the registered entity, market participants, and the overall market. The narrative should describe the substance of the submission with enough specificity to characterize all material aspects of the filing.


7. *Identifier Code (optional)*—A registered entity Identifier Code, if applicable. Such codes are commonly generated by registered entities to provide an identifier that is unique to each filing (e.g., NYMEX Submission 03-116).


(b) *Other Requirements*—A submission shall comply with all applicable filing requirements for proposed rules, rule amendments, or products. The entry of the information required by paragraph (a) of this appendix does not obviate the registered entity's responsibility to comply with applicable filing requirements (e.g., rules submitted for Commission approval under § 40.5 must be accompanied by an explanation of the purpose and effect of the proposed rule along with a description of any substantive opposing views).


(c) An indication of “confidential treatment requested” does not obviate the submitter's responsibility to comply with all applicable requirements for requesting confidential treatment in § 40.8 and, where appropriate, § 145.9 of this chapter, and will not substitute for notice or full compliance with such requirements.



---

[N] [89 FR 88628, Nov. 7, 2024]






