# ยง 551.9   Temporarily stopping, canceling, or relinquishing activities approved under a permit.

(a) BOEM may temporarily stop exploration or scientific research activities under a permit when the Regional Director determines that:


(1) Activities pose a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm. This includes damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposit (in areas leased or not leased), to the marine, coastal, or human environment, or to an archaeological resource;


(2) You failed to comply with any applicable law, regulation, order, or provision of the permit. This would include BOEM's required submission of reports, well records or logs, and G&G data and information within the time specified; or


(3) Stopping the activities is in the interest of National security or defense.


(b) *Procedures to temporarily stop activities.* (1) The Regional Director will advise you either orally or in writing. BOEM will confirm an oral notification in writing and deliver all written notifications by courier or certified or registered mail. You must halt all activities under a permit as soon as you receive an oral or written notification.


(2) The Regional Director will advise you when you may start your permit activities again.


(c) *Procedure to cancel or relinquish a permit.* The Regional Director may cancel, or a permittee may relinquish, a permit at any time.


(1) If BOEM cancels your permit, the Regional Director will advise you by certified or registered mail 30 days before the cancellation date and will state the reason.


(2) You may relinquish the permit by advising the Regional Director by certified or registered mail 30 days in advance.


(3) After BOEM cancels your permit or you relinquish it, you are still responsible for proper abandonment of any drill sites in accordance with the requirements of 30 CFR 251.7(b)(8). You must also comply with all other obligations specified in this part or in the permit.




