# § 227.211   Requirement to implement a general EEBA program; criteria for placing employees in the general EEBA program.

(a) *In general.* A railroad shall adopt and comply with a comprehensive, written, general program to implement this subpart that shall be maintained at the railroad's system headquarters. Each railroad shall amend its general EEBA program, as necessary, to reflect any significant changes.


(b) *Elements of the general EEBA program and criteria for placing employees in program.* A railroad's general EEBA program shall—


(1) Identify the individual who implements and manages the railroad's general EEBA program by title. The individual must have suitable training and sufficient knowledge, experience, skill, and authority to enable him or her to manage properly a program for provision of EEBAs. If the individual is not directly employed by the railroad, the written program must identify the business relationship of the railroad to the individual fulfilling this role.


(2) Describe the administrative and technical process for selection of EEBAs appropriate to the hazards that may be reasonably expected.


(3) Describe the process used to procure and provide EEBAs in a manner to ensure the continuous and ready availability of an EEBA to each of the railroad's employees identified in § 227.201(a)(1)(i)(A) through (D) (while actually occupying the locomotive cab of a freight train in service transporting a PIH material). This description shall include—


(i) A description of the method used for provision of EEBAs, including whether the EEBAs are individually assigned to employees, installed on locomotives as required equipment, or provided by other means. If EEBAs are installed on locomotives as required equipment, the means of securement shall be designated.


(ii) The decision criteria used by the railroad to identify trains in which provision of EEBAs is not required.


(iii) A description of what procedures will govern the railroad at interchange to ensure that the locomotive cab in each in-service freight train transporting a PIH material has an EEBA accessible to each of the employees identified in § 227.201(a)(1)(i)(A) through (D) while in the cab of the locomotive, including what procedures are in place to ensure that the EEBAs provided satisfy the EEBA-selection criteria in § 227.203, satisfy the EEBA-storage criteria in § 227.205, and have been inspected and are in working order pursuant to the requirements in § 227.207.


(4) Ensure that each of the following employees, except those excluded by § 227.201(b), whose duties require regular work in the locomotive cabs of in-service freight trains transporting a PIH material, including a residue of a PIH material, has the required EEBA available when they occupy the cab of such a train and know how to use the EEBA:


(i) Employees who perform service subject to 49 U.S.C. 21103 (train employees) on such trains;


(ii) Direct supervisors of train employees on such trains;


(iii) Deadheading employees on such trains; and


(iv) Any other employees designated by the railroad in writing and at the discretion of the railroad.


(c) *Records of positions or individuals or both in the railroad's general EEBA program.* A railroad shall maintain a record of all positions or individuals, or both, who are designated by the railroad to be placed in its general EEBA program pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The railroad shall retain these records for the duration of the designation and for one year thereafter.


(d) *Consolidated programs.* A group of two or more commonly controlled railroads subject to this subpart may request in writing that the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer (Associate Administrator) treat them as a single railroad for purposes of adopting and complying with the general EEBA program required by this section. The request must list the parent corporation that controls the group of railroads and demonstrate that the railroads operate in the United States as a single, integrated rail system. The Associate Administrator will notify the railroads of his or her decision in writing.






