# ยง 14.14   Right-of-way permit amendment.

(a) A permittee may request or the NPS may initiate an amendment to a right-of-way permit. If the NPS initiates an amendment, it will provide notice to the permittee.


(b) An amendment to an existing right-of-way permit may address operation and maintenance, the use and occupancy fee, a new permittee as a result of an approved transfer, or other terms and conditions.


(1) If a permittee requests an amendment to a right-of-way permit that would modify, change, or add to the authorized uses or locations, then the NPS may require the permittee to include some or all of the materials required under ยง 14.4.


(2) If modifications, changes, or additions to the authorized uses or locations proposed by the permittee are deemed significant by the NPS, then the NPS may require the permittee to submit a complete right-of-way permit application requesting a new right-of-way permit.


(c) An amendment may not alter the term of a right-of-way permit, except for a single extension of up to one year to prevent expiration of the right-of-way permit when there is a reasonable delay or ongoing good faith negotiations regarding renewal of an expiring right-of-way permit.


(d) Requests by the permittee for an amendment to a right-of-way permit must be in writing, signed by a representative legally authorized to bind the permittee, and must contain the following information:


(1) Right-of-way permit number;


(2) Permittee name;


(3) System unit name;


(4) Description of the activities and infrastructure authorized by the right-of-way permit;


(5) Description of the proposed amendment;


(6) Description of the purpose or justification for the requested amendment; and


(7) Other information required by the NPS.


(e) The decision to approve an amendment is at the discretion of the NPS. Amendments will be reviewed and executed using the procedures that apply to the review and execution of right-of-way permits in paragraphs (a) through (c) in ยง 14.5. An approved amendment is deemed to be a part of the original right-of-way permit.






