# ยง 1209.35   Product specification.

(a) *Requirement.* Before any manufacturer, importer, or private labeler distributes in commerce cellulose insulation which is subject to the standard, it shall ensure that the insulation is described in a written product specification.


(b) *Contents of specification.* The product specification shall include the following information:


(1) A description of the equipment used to manufacture the insulation, including the model number and names of the equipment manufacturers, and details of any modification made to any item of equipment.


(2) A description of the cellulosic stock material used to manufacture the insulation, identifying the extent of impurities allowed.


(3) The formulation of the fire-retardant chemicals added, including their chemical constituents and their form (for example, granulated, powdered, or liquid); the amount of fire-retardant chemicals present in the finished insulation, expressed as a percentage of the total weight of chemicals and cellulosic stock; the average weight of chemicals per bag; and the name and address of each chemical supplier. Where the chemical composition or formula of a commercially pre-mixed fire retardant is not known to the insulation manufacturer, the pre-mixed fire retardant may be described simply by the name and address of the supplier and its brand or trade name.


(4) A description of the tests which were used to qualify the product as well as the dates of performance and results and actual values, where applicable, of the tests.


(5) Any other information necessary to describe the insulation.


(c) *Distribution in commerce.* After the qualification testing required by ยง 1209.34 has been completed with acceptable results and the product specification required by this ยง 1209.35 has been recorded, the cellulose insulation may be manufactured and distributed in commerce, subject to the provisions of ยง 1209.36.


(d) *New product.* Whenever a manufacturer, private labeler, or importer makes any change to any item of equipment, cellulosic stock material, or formulation of a fire-retardant chemical, or any other factor which is likely to affect the ability of the cellulose insulation to meet the standard, that change will result in a new cellulose insulation product, requiring the preparation of a new product specification. The new product must be subjected to qualification tests and must yield passing or acceptable results.




