# § 70.10-1   Definitions.

*Approved* means approved by the Commandant, unless otherwise stated. 


*Barge* means any non-self-propelled vessel. 


*Carrying freight for hire* means the carriage of any goods, wares, or merchandise, or any other freight for a consideration, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, charterer, operator, agent, or any other person interested in the vessel. 


*Classed vessel* means any vessel classed by the American Bureau of Shipping or other recognized classification society. 


*Coast Guard District Commander* means an officer of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant to command all Coast Guard activities within his or her district, which include the inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II, Title 46 U.S. Code; Title 33 U.S. Code; and regulations issued under these statutes. 


*Coastwise* is a designation of service that includes all vessels normally navigating the waters of any ocean or the Gulf of Mexico 20 nautical miles or less offshore. 


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard. 


*Consideration* means an economic benefit, inducement, right, or profit including pecuniary payment accruing to an individual, person, or entity but not including a voluntary sharing of the actual expenses of the voyage by monetary contribution or donation of fuel, food, beverage, or other supplies. 


*Ferry* means a vessel that is used on a regular schedule—


(1) To provide transportation only between places that are not more than 300 miles apart; and


(2) To transport only—


(i) Passengers; or


(ii) Vehicles, or railroad cars, that are being used, or have been used, in transporting passengers or goods.


*Great Lakes* is a designation of service that includes all vessels navigating the Great Lakes. 


*Headquarters* means the Commandant (CG-ENG), Attn: Office of Design and Engineering Systems, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509.


*Lakes, bays, and sounds* is a designation of service that includes all vessels navigating the waters of the lakes, bays, or sounds other than the waters of the Great Lakes. 


*Marine inspector* or *inspector* means any person from the civilian or military branch of the Coast Guard assigned under the direction of an Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, or any other person designated to perform duties related to the inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II, Title 46 U.S. Code; Title 33 U.S. Code; and regulations issued under these statutes. 


*Motor vessel* means any vessel more than 65 feet in length, which is propelled by machinery other than steam. 


*Ocean* is a designation of service that includes all vessels navigating the waters of any ocean or the Gulf of Mexico more than 20-nautical miles offshore. 


*Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection* means any person from the civilian or military branch of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant and who, under the direction of the Coast Guard District Commander, is in charge of an inspection zone for the performance of duties related to the inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II, Title 46 U.S. Code; Title 33 U.S. Code; and regulations issued under these statutes. 


*Passenger* means— 


(1) On an international voyage, every person other than— 


(i) The master and the members of the crew or other persons employed or engaged in any capacity onboard a vessel on the business of that vessel; and 


(ii) A child under the age of one. 


(2) On other than an international voyage, an individual carried on the vessel, except— 


(i) The owner or an individual representative of the owner or, in the case of a vessel under charter, an individual charterer or individual representative of the charterer; 


(ii) The master; or 


(iii) A member of the crew engaged in the business of the vessel, who has not contributed consideration for carriage, and who is paid for onboard services. 


*Passenger-for-hire* means a passenger for whom consideration is contributed as a condition of carriage on the vessel, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, charterer, operator, agent, or any other person having an interest in the vessel. 


*Passenger vessel* means a vessel of at least 100 gross tons:


(1) Carrying more than 12 passengers, including at least one passenger for hire;


(2) That is chartered and carrying more than 12 passengers;


(3) That is a submersible vessel carrying at least one passenger for hire; or


(4) That is a ferry carrying a passenger.


*Pilot boarding equipment* means a pilot ladder, accommodation ladder, pilot hoist, or combination of them, as required by this subchapter. 


*Point of access* means the place on the deck of a vessel where a person steps onto or off pilot boarding equipment. 


*Recognized classification society* means the American Bureau of Shipping or other classification society as recognized by the Commandant. 


*Rivers* is a designation of service that includes all vessels whose navigation is restricted to rivers and/or canals, and to such other waters as may be designated by the Coast Guard District Commander. 


*Sailing vessel* means a vessel with no mechanical means of propulsion, all propulsive power being provided by sails. 


*Short international voyage* means an international voyage in the course of which a vessel is not more than 200 miles from a port or place in which the passengers and crew could be placed in safety. Neither the distance between the last port of call in the country in which the voyage begins and the final port of destination, nor the return voyage, may exceed 600 miles. The final port of destination is the last port of call in the scheduled voyage at which the vessel commences its return voyage to the country in which the voyage began. 


*Specially suitable for vehicles* is a designation used for a space that is designed for the carriage of automobiles or other self-propelled vehicles with batteries connected and fuel tanks containing gasoline on vessels on ocean or unlimited coastwise voyages. Requirements for the design and protection of spaces specially suitable for vehicles appear in subparts 72.15, 76.15, 77.05, 78.45, 78.47, and 78.83 of parts 72, 76, 77, and 78 of this subchapter. In addition, preparation of automobiles prior to carriage, with the exception of disconnecting battery cables, must be in accordance with the applicable provision of 49 CFR 176.905. 


*Submersible vessel* means a vessel that is capable of operating below the surface of the water. 


*Vessel,* unless otherwise noted in this subpart, includes all vessels indicated in column three of table 70.05-1(a) in § 70.05-1 that exceed 65 feet in length (measured from end-to-end over the deck, excluding sheer) and that carry more than six passengers-for-hire.



---

[N] [USCG-1999-5040, 67 FR 34792, May 15, 2002, as amended by USCG-2008-1107, Dec. 4, 2009; USCG-2012-0832, 77 FR 59778, Oct. 1, 2012; USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60149, Sept. 30, 2013]




