# § 800.195   Delegations.

(a) *General.* Eligible States may be delegated authority to perform official services (excluding appeal inspection) at export port locations within their respective States.


(b) *Restrictions.* Only the Service or the delegated State may perform official inspection, Class X, and Class Y weighing services at an export port location within the State. If official inspection services, at export port locations within the State, are performed by the Service, only the Service may perform Class X and Class Y weighing services at the locations. If official inspection services are performed by a delegated State, either the State or the Service may perform Class X and Class Y weighing services at the export port locations within the State.


(c) *Who can apply.* States which: (1) Were performing official inspection at an export port location under the Act on July 1, 1976, or; (2)(i) performed official inspection at an export port location at any time prior to July 1, 1976; (ii) were designated under section 7(f) of the Act on December 22, 1981, to perform official inspections; and (iii) operate in a State from which total annual exports of grain do not exceed, as determined by the Administrator, 5 per centum of the total amount of grain exported from the United States annually may apply to the Service for a delegation.


(d) *When and how to apply.* A request for authority to operate as a delegated State should be filed with the Service not less than 90 calendar days before the State proposes to perform the official service. A request for authority to operate as a delegated State shall show: (1) The export port location(s) where the State proposes to perform official inspection, Class X, and Class Y weighing services; (2) the estimated annual volume of inspection and weighing services for each location; and (3) the schedule of fees the State proposes to assess. A request for a revision to a delegation shall (i) be filed with the Service not less than 90 calendar days before the desired effective date, and (ii) specify the change desired.


(e) *Review of eligibility and criteria for delegation.* Each applicant for authority to operate as a delegated State shall be reviewed to determine whether the applicant meets the eligibility conditions contained in paragraph (c) of this section and the criteria contained in section 7(f)(1)(A) of the Act. The requested delegation may be granted if the Service determines that the applicant meets the eligibility conditions and criteria. If an application is dismissed, the Service shall notify the applicant promptly, in writing, of the reason(s) for the dismissal.


(f) *Responsibilities*—(1) *Providing official services.* Each delegated State shall be responsible for providing each official service authorized by the delegation at all export elevators at export port locations in the State. The State shall perform each official service according to the Act, regulations, and instructions.


(2) *Staffing, licensing, and training.* Delegated States shall employ official personnel on the basis of job qualifications rather than political affiliations. The State shall employ sufficient personnel to provide the services normally requested in an accurate and timely manner. The State shall only use personnel licensed by the Service for the performance of official services and shall train and assist its personnel in acquiring and maintaining the necessary skills. The State shall keep the Service informed of the employment status of each of its licensees and any substantial change in a licensee's duties.


(3) *Rotation of personnel.* Where feasible, each delegated State shall rotate licensees among elevators and other facilities as is necessary to preserve the integrity of the official inspection and weighting systems.


(4) *Supervision.* The State and its officials shall be responsible for the actions of the official personnel employed by the State, for direct supervision of the daily activities of such personnel, and for the conduct of official services and related activities in the State. The State shall supervise official activities according to the Act, regulations, and instructions and shall take action necessary to ensure that its employees are not performing prohibited functions and are not involved in any action prohibited by the Act, regulations, or instructions. Each State shall report to the Service information which shows or may show a violation of any provision of the Act, regulations, or instructions and information on any instructions which have been issued to State personnel by Service personnel or by any other person which are contrary to or inconsistent with the Act, regulations, or instructions.


(5) *Conflict of interest.* (i) *General.* The delegated State and any commissioner, director, employee, or other related person or entity shall not have a conflict of interest, as defined in section 11 of the Act and § 800.199 of the regulations. A conflict of interest may be waived pursuant to § 800.199(d).


(ii) *Unofficial activities.* The delegated State or personnel employed by the State shall not perform any unofficial service that is the same as any of the official services covered by the delegation.


(6) *Fees.* The delegated State shall charge fees according to § 800.70.


(7) *Facilities and equipment.* (i) *General.* The laboratory and office facilities of each delegated State shall be: Located; equipped; and large enough so that requested services are provided in an orderly and timely manner.


(ii) *Equipment testing.* Each delegated State shall test the equipment that it uses for official services according to the instructions.


(8) *Security.* Each delegated State shall provide sufficient security to assure that official samples, records, equipment, and forms are reasonably secure from theft, alteration, or misuse.


(9) *Certificate control system.* Each delegated State shall establish a certificate control system for all official certificates it receives, issues, voids, or otherwise renders useless. The system shall provide for: (i) Recording the numbers of the official certificates printed or received; (ii) protecting unused certificates from fraudulent or unauthorized use; and (iii) maintaining a file copy of each certificate issued, voided, or otherwise rendered useless in a manner that would permit retrieval.


(10) *Records.* Each delegated State shall maintain the records specified in §§ 800.145 through 800.159.


(11) *Notification to Secretary.* A delegated State shall notify the Secretary of its intention to temporarily discontinue official inspection and/or weighing services for any reason, except in the case of a major disaster. The delegated State must provide written notification to the Service no less than 72 hours in advance of the discontinuation date.


(g) *Termination*—(1) *Automatic termination.* Failure to pay the user fees prescribed by the Service for supervisory costs related to official inspection and weighing services within 30 days after due shall result in the automatic termination of the delegation. The delegation shall be reinstated if fees currently due, plus interest and any further expenses incurred by the Service because of the termination, are paid within 60 days after the termination.


(2) *Voluntary cancellation.* A State may request that its delegation be canceled by giving 90 days written notice to the Service.


(3) *Revocation.* (i) *Without hearing.* The Administrator may revoke the delegation of a State without first affording the State opportunity for a hearing. Unless otherwise provided, the revocation shall be effective when the State receives a notice from the Service regarding the revocation and the reason(s) therefor.


(ii) *Informal conference.* At the discretion of the Administrator, before the delegation of a State is revoked under paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section, the Service may (A) notify the State of the proposed action and the reason(s) therefor, and (B) afford the State an opportunity to express its views in an informal conference before the Administrator.


(4) *Review.* At least once every 5 years, a delegated State shall submit to a review of its delegation by the Service in accordance with the criteria and procedures for delegation prescribed in section 7(e) of the Act, this section of the regulations, and the instructions. The Administrator may revoke the delegation of a State according to this subsection if the State fails to meet or comply with any of the criteria for delegation set forth in the Act, regulations, and instructions.


(h) *Provision of services following termination.* If a State's delegation is terminated, official services at the export port locations in the State shall be provided by the Service.



---

[N] [49 FR 30915, Aug. 2, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 18988, May 6, 1985; 54 FR 5924, Feb. 7, 1989; 60 FR 65236, Dec. 19, 1995; 81 FR 49863, July 29, 2016]




