# § 31.3121(b)(7)-1   Services in employ of States or their political subdivisions or instrumentalities.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in other paragraphs of this section, services performed in the employ of any State, any political subdivision of a State, or any instrumentality of one or more States or political subdivisions thereof which is wholly owned by one or more States or political subdivisions are excepted from employment. For the definition of the term “State”, as used in this section, see § 31.3121(e)-1.


(b) *Covered transportation service.* The exception from employment under section 3121(b)(7) does not apply to covered transportation service as defined in section 3121(j). See that section and 31.3121(j)-1.


(c) *Government of American Samoa.* The exception from employment under section 3121(b)(7) does not apply to services performed after 1960 in the employ of the Government of American Samoa, any political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of such Government or political subdivision, or combination thereof, which is wholly owned thereby, performed by an officer or employee thereof (including a member of the legislature of such Government or political subdivision).


(d) *District of Columbia.* The exception from employment under section 3121(b)(7) does not apply to services performed after September 30, 1965, in the employ of the District of Columbia or any instrumentality which is wholly owned thereby, if such service is not covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence the following classes of services performed either in the employ of the District of Columbia or in the employ of any instrumentality which is wholly owned thereby are excepted from employment:


(1) Services performed in a hospital or penal institution by a patient or inmate thereof.


(2) Services performed by student nurses, student dietitians, student physical therapists, or student occupational therapists assigned or attached to a hospital, clinic, or medical or dental laboratory operated by the District of Columbia or by any wholly owned instrumentality thereof, or by certain other student employees described in section 5351(2) of title 5, United States Code. This subparagraph does not apply to services performed by medical or dental interns or by medical or dental residents in training described in such section 5351(2).


(3) Services performed by an individual as an employee serving on a temporary basis in case of fire, storm, snow, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency.


(4) Services performed by a member of a board, committee, or council of the District of Columbia, paid on a per diem, meeting, or other fee basis.


(e) *Government of Guam.* The exception from employment under section 3121(b)(7) does not apply to services performed after 1972 in the employ of the Government of Guam or any instrumentality which is wholly owned thereby, by an employee properly classified as a temporary or intermittent employee, if such service is not covered by a retirement system established by a law of Guam. The preceding sentence shall not apply to the services performed by an elected official or a member of the legislature or in a hospital or penal institution by a patient or inmate thereof. For purposes of this paragraph—


(1) Any person whose services as an officer or employee of such Government or instrumentality is not covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States shall not, with respect to such service, be regarded as an employee of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, and


(2) The remuneration for service described in subparagraph (1) (including fees paid to a public official) shall be deemed to have been paid by such Government or instrumentality.



---

[N] [T.D. 6744, 29 FR 8312, July 2, 1964, as amended by T.D. 6983, 33 FR 18016, Dec. 4, 1968; T.D. 7373, 40 FR 30958, July 24, 1975] 




