# ยง 2507.4   Agency FOIA officials.

The following are AmeriCorps' authorized FOIA officials, each of whom will be identified on *americorps.gov*, and their roles.


(a) The *Chief FOIA Officer:*

(1) Has overall responsibility for AmeriCorps' compliance with the FOIA;


(2) Provides high-level oversight and support to AmeriCorps' FOIA program;


(3) Recommends adjustments to AmeriCorps' practices, personnel, and funding, as needed, to improve FOIA administration, including through Chief FOIA Officer Reports submitted to the U.S. Department of Justice;


(4) Tells the Agency's FOIA Officers of all significant developments with respect to the FOIA;


(5) Is responsible for offering training to agency staff regarding their FOIA responsibilities;


(6) Serves as the primary liaison with the Office of Government Information Services and the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Information Policy; and


(7) Reviews, at least annually, all aspects of AmeriCorps' administration of the FOIA to ensure compliance with the FOIA's requirements.


(b) The *FOIA Officer* receives, tracks, and processes the Agency's FOIA requests, including making final release determinations. The FOIA Officer is responsible for program direction, original denials, and policy decisions required for effective implementation of the Agency's FOIA program.


(c) The *FOIA Appeals Officer* receives and act upon appeals from requesters whose initial requests for the Agency's records have been denied, in whole or in part.


(d) The *FOIA Public Liaison* serves as the official to whom a FOIA requester can raise concerns about the services received, following an initial response from the FOIA Officer. In addition, the FOIA Public Liaison assists, as appropriate, in reducing delays, increasing transparency, answering requesters' questions about the status of their requests, and resolving disputes.




