# § 165.1185   Regulated Navigation Area; San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and connecting waters in California.

(a) *Location.* All waters of San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and connecting waters in California are a Regulated Navigation Area.


(b) *Definitions.* “Liquefied hazardous gas (LHG)” is a liquid containing one or more of the products listed in Table 127.005 of 33 CFR 127.005 that is carried in bulk on board a tank vessel as a liquefied gas product. The hazards normally associated with these products include toxic or flammable properties or a combination of both.


(c) *Regulations.* All vessels loaded with a cargo of liquefied hazardous gas (LHG) within this Regulated Navigation Area must proceed directly to their intended cargo reception facility to discharge their LHG cargo, unless:


(1) The vessel is otherwise directed or permitted by the Captain of the Port. The Captain of the Port can be reached at telephone number (415) 399-3547 or on VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz). If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representative.


(2) The vessel is in an emergency situation and unable to proceed as directed in paragraph (a) of this section without endangering the safety of persons, property, or the environment.



---

[N] [CGD11 04-001, 69 FR 30206, May 27, 2004]




