# § 151.15-10   Cargo gauging devices.

This section contains definitions and requirements for types of gauging devices specified in Table 151.05. 


(a) *Open gauging.* A gauging method which uses an opening in the cargo tank and which may expose the gauge user to the cargo and its vapors. Examples of this type are gauge hatch, ullage hole. 


(b) *Restricted.* A gauging device which penetrates the cargo tank and which, in operation, causes or permits the release to the atmosphere of small quantities of cargo vapor or liquid. The amount of cargo released is controlled by the small diameter of the tank penetration opening and by a locally operated valve or similar closure device in that opening. When not in use, this type gauging device is closed to maintain the complete integrity of cargo containment. Examples of this type are rotary tube, fixed tube, slip tube, sounding tube. (See §§ 151.03-49 and 151.15-10(g).) 


(c) *Closed.* A gauging device which penetrates the cargo tank, but which is part of a closed system maintaining the complete integrity of cargo containment. This device is designed and installed so as not to release cargo liquid or vapor in any amount to the atmosphere. Examples of this type are automatic float, continuous tape (magnetic coupled), sight glass (protected), electronic probe, magnetic, differential pressure cell. 


(d) *Isolated or indirect.* A gauging method or device which is isolated from the tank (no penetration of the tank shell) and which may employ an indirect measurement to obtain the desired quantity. Examples of this type are weighing of cargo, sonic depth gauge (without penetration of tank shell), pipe flow meter. 


(e) All gauging devices and related fixtures which form a part of the cargo containment barrier shall be of suitable material and shall be designed for the pressure and temperature of the cargo in accordance with the requirements of Subchapter F of this chapter. 


(f) *Use of restricted gauging devices.* (1) When required in Table 151.05, cargoes carried under pressure shall have restricted gauging devices designed so that the maximum bleed valve opening is not larger than 0.055;inch; diameter, unless provided with an excess flow valve. Sounding tubes are prohibited for use with cargoes having a vapor pressure in excess of 14.7 p.s.i.a. at 115 °F, if carried in an uninsulated tank, or at 105 °F, if carried in an insulated tank. 


(2) When utilizing a sounding tube, the cargo tank vent system shall be designed to prevent the discharge of cargo through the sounding tube due to pressure build up in the cargo tank vapor space. (See § 151.03-43) When cargoes carried at atmospheric pressure are required to have a restricted gauging device, open gauges may be provided in addition to restricted gauges for this type of cargo. However, open gauges may not be used while cargo transfer operations are actually being performed. 


(g) Fixed tube gauges are not acceptable as primary means of gauging. They may be used as a check on the calibration of other gauging devices. 


(h) For pressure-vessel type tanks, each automatic float, continuous reading tape or similar type gauge not mounted directly on the tank or dome shall be fitted with a shutoff device located as close to the tank as practicable. When an automatic float gauging device, which gauges the entire height of the tank, is used, a fixed tube gauge set in the range of 85 percent to 90 percent of the water capacity of the tank shall be provided in addition as a means of checking the accuracy of the automatic float gauge, or other alternate means acceptable to the Commandant may be used. 


(i) Gauge glasses of the columnar type are prohibited. 


(j) Flat sight glasses may be used in the design of automatic float continuous reading tape gauges. However such glasses shall be made of high strength material, suitable for the operating temperatures, of not less than one-half inch in thickness and adequately protected by a metal cover. 



---

[N] [CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3714, Feb. 25, 1970, as amended by USCG-2005-22329, 70 FR 57183, Sept. 30, 2005]




