# ยง 64.6403   Establishment of mechanisms for submission of line separation requests.

(a) A covered provider shall offer a survivor the ability to submit a line separation request through secure remote means that are easily navigable, provided that remote options are commercially available and technically feasible. A covered provider shall offer more than one remote means of submitting a line separation request and shall offer alternative means to accommodate individuals with different disabilities. A covered provider may offer means of submitting a line separation request that are not remote if the provider does not require a survivor to use such non-remote means or make it more difficult for survivors to access remote means than to access non-remote means. For purposes of this subpart, remote means are those that do not require a survivor to interact in person with an employee of the covered provider at a physical location.


(b) The means a covered provider offers pursuant to this section must allow survivors to submit any information and documentation required by 47 U.S.C. 345 and this subpart. A covered provider may offer means that allow or require survivors to initiate a request using one method and submit documentation using another method. A covered provider shall permit a survivor to submit any documentation required by 47 U.S.C. 345 and this subpart in any common format.


(c) Any means that a covered provider offers pursuant to this section shall:


(1) Use wording that is simple, clear, and concise;


(2) Present the information requests in a format that is easy to comprehend and use;


(3) Generally use the same wording and format on all platforms available for submitting a request;


(4) Clearly identify the information and documentation that a survivor must include with a line separation request and allow survivors to provide that information and documentation easily;


(5) Be available in all the languages in which the covered provider advertises its services; and


(6) Be accessible by individuals with disabilities, including being available in all formats (*e.g.,* large print, braille) in which the covered provider makes its service information available to individuals with disabilities.






