# § 17.641   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to §§ 17.640 through 17.647.


*Acceptance of conditions* means a signed document between VA and a participant of the PREL, in which the participant must agree to a period of obligated service, to maintain an acceptable level of performance determined by supervisory review in the position to which VA appoints the participant, to terms and amount of payment, and to relocate, if required, to a location determined by VA at the participant's expense in exchange for educational loan repayments under the PREL. VA will provide a list of available locations for the period of obligated service in the acceptance of conditions. The applicant will choose the preferred location, in ranking order, for the completion of his or her obligated service from the locations on this list. However, VA will ultimately make the final determination as to where the applicant will perform his or her period of obligated service. A participant of the PREL must agree that he or she is willing to accept the location and position to which VA appoints the participant.


*Educational loan* means a loan, government or commercial, made for educational purposes by institutions that are subject to examination and supervision in their capacity as lending institutions by an agency of the United States or of the state in which the lender has its principal place of business. Loans must be for the actual costs paid for tuition, and other reasonable educational expenses such as living expenses, fees, books, supplies, educational equipment and materials, and laboratory expenses. Loans must be obtained from a government entity, a private financial institution, a school, or any other authorized entity stated in this definition. The following loans do not qualify for the PREL:


(1) Loans obtained from family members, relatives, or friends;


(2) Loans made prior to, or after, the individual's qualifying education;


(3) Any portion of a consolidated loan that is not specifically identified with the education and purposes for which the PREL may be authorized, such as home or auto loans merged with educational loans;


(4) Loans for which an individual incurred a service obligation for repayment or agreed to service for future cancellation;


(5) Credit card debt;


(6) Parent Plus Loans;


(7) Loans that have been paid in full;


(8) Loans that are in default, delinquent, not in a current payment status, or have been assumed by a collection agency;


(9) Loans not obtained from a bank, credit union, savings and loan association, not-for-profit organization, insurance company, school, and other financial or credit institution which is subject to examination and supervision in its capacity as a lending institution by an agency of the United States or of the state in which the lender has its principal place of business;


(10) Loans for which supporting documentation is not available;


(11) Loans that have been consolidated with loans of other individuals, such as spouses, children, friends, or other family member; or


(12) Home equity loans or other non-educational loans.


*PREL* means the program for the repayment of educational loans for certain VA psychiatrists established in §§ 17.640 through 17.647.




