# § 721.4133   Dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocyclic amine.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocycle (PMN No. P-91-1323) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g) and (q). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (d) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 32238, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]




