# § 63.747   Standards: Chemical milling maskant application operations.

(a) Each owner or operator of a new or existing chemical milling maskant operation subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section for those chemical milling maskants that are uncontrolled (no control device is used to reduce organic HAP emissions from the operation) and in paragraph (d) of this section for those chemical milling maskants that are controlled (organic HAP emissions from the operation are reduced by the use of a control device). 


(b) Each owner or operator shall conduct the handling and transfer of chemical milling maskants to or from containers, tanks, vats, vessels, and piping systems in such a manner that minimizes spills. 


(c) *Uncontrolled maskants—organic HAP and VOC content levels.* Each owner or operator shall comply with the organic HAP and VOC content limits specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section for each chemical milling maskant that is uncontrolled. 


(1) Organic HAP emissions from chemical milling maskants shall be limited to organic HAP content levels of no more than 622 grams of organic HAP per liter (5.2 lb/gal) of Type I chemical milling maskant (less water) as applied, and no more than 160 grams of organic HAP per liter (1.3 lb/gal) of Type II chemical milling maskant (less water) as applied.


(2) VOC emissions from chemical milling maskants shall be limited to VOC content levels of no more than 622 grams of VOC per liter (5.2 lb/gal) of Type I chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied, and no more than 160 grams of VOC per liter (1.3 lb/gal) of Type II chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied.


(3) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section do not apply to the following: 


(i) Touch-up of scratched surfaces or damaged maskant; and 


(ii) Touch-up of trimmed edges. 


(d) *Controlled maskants—control system requirements.* Each control system shall reduce the operation's organic HAP and VOC emissions to the atmosphere by 81% or greater, taking into account capture and destruction or removal efficiencies, as determined using the procedures in § 63.750(g) when a carbon adsorber is used and in § 63.750(h) when a control device other than a carbon adsorber is used. 


(e) *Compliance methods.* Compliance with the organic HAP and VOC content limits specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section may be accomplished by using the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section either by themselves or in conjunction with one another. 


(1) Use chemical milling maskants with HAP and VOC content levels equal to or less than the limits specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. 


(2) Use the averaging provisions described in § 63.743(d).



---

[N] [60 FR 45956, Sept. 1, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15021, Mar. 27, 1998]




