# § 63.1032   Sampling connection systems standards.

(a) *Compliance schedule.* The owner or operator shall comply with this section no later than the compliance dates specified in the referencing subpart.


(b) *Equipment requirement.* Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed vent system, except as provided in §§ 63.1021(b), 63.1036, 63.1037, or paragraph (d) of this section. Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.


(c) *Equipment design and operation.* Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed vent system as required in paragraph (b) of this section shall meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.


(1) The system shall return the purged process fluid directly to a process line or to a fuel gas system that meets the requirements of either § 63.1034 or § 63.1021(b); or


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Be designed and operated to capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that meets the requirements of either § 63.1034 or § 63.1021(b); or


(4) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to a system or facility identified in paragraph (c)(4)(i), (c)(4)(ii), or (c)(4)(iii) of this section.


(i) A waste management unit as defined in 40 CFR 63.111 or subpart G, if the waste management unit is subject to and operating in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to group 1 wastewater streams. If the purged process fluid does not contain any regulated material listed in Table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the waste management unit need not be subject to, and operated in compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to group 1 wastewater steams provided the facility has a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or sends the wastewater to an NPDES-permitted facility.


(ii) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, or 266; or


(iii) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.


(5) Containers that are part of a closed purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.


(d) *In-situ sampling systems.* In-situ sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.




