# § 721.11316   Lithium nickel potassium oxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as lithium nickel potassium oxide (PMN P-18-124, CAS No. 210352-95-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (3) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA Order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.05 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA Order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1)(ii) through (iv) and (vii) through (ix), (g)(2), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(2), when using this substance: Avoid skin contact; avoid breathing substance; avoid ingestion; use skin protection; use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.05 mg/m
3. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance for more than four years.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=32.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46145, Aug. 18, 2021]






