# § 585.76   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Advanced credit phase-in reporting requirements.* (1) Within 60 days after the end of the production years ending August 31, 2008, through August 31, 2014, each manufacturer choosing to certify vehicles manufactured during any of those production years as complying with the upgraded moving deformable barrier (S7.2 of Standard No. 214)(49 CFR 571.214) or vehicle-to-pole requirements (S9) of Standard No. 214 shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration providing the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section and in § 585.2 of this part.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *Phase-in reporting requirements.* Within 60 days after the end of each of the production years ending August 31, 2011, August 31, 2012, August 31, 2013, and August 31, 2014, each manufacturer shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration concerning its compliance with the moving deformable barrier requirements of S7 of Standard No. 214 and with the vehicle-to-pole requirements of S9 of that Standard for its vehicles produced in that year. Each report shall provide the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section and in section 585.2 of this part.


(c) *Advanced credit phase-in report content*—(1) *Production of complying vehicles.* With respect to the reports identified in § 585.76(a), each manufacturer shall report for the production year for which the report is filed the number of vehicles, by make and model year: That are certified as meeting the moving deformable barrier test requirements of S7.2 of Standard No. 214, *Side impact protection* (49 CFR 571.214), and that are certified as meeting the vehicle-to-pole test requirements of S9 of Standard No. 214.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Phase-in report content*—(1) *Basis for phase-in production goals.* Each manufacturer shall provide the number of vehicles manufactured in the current production year, or, at the manufacturer's option, in each of the three previous production years. A new manufacturer that is, for the first time, manufacturing passenger cars for sale in the United States must report the number of passenger cars manufactured during the current production year.


(2) *Production of complying vehicles.* Each manufacturer shall report for the production year being reported on, and each preceding production year, to the extent that vehicles produced during the preceding years are treated under Standard No. 214 as having been produced during the production year being reported on, information on the number of vehicles that meet the moving deformable barrier test requirements of S7 of Standard No. 214, *Side Impact Protection* (49 CFR 571.214), and the number of vehicles that meet the vehicle-to-pole test requirements of S9 of that standard.



---

[N] [72 FR 51972, Sept. 11, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 32485, June 9, 2008]




