# ยง 516.15   General.

(a) *Legal proceedings requiring reporting.* Actions must be taken upon commencement of litigation or administrative proceedings in which the United States has an interest. Typically, the Secretary of the Army, DA, the United States, or DA personnel are named as defendant in a lawsuit or as respondent in an administrative proceeding. A nonexclusive listing of cases in which the United States has an interest include the following:


(1) Suits for damages, injunctive relief, or other action filed against the government or against DA personnel in their official capacity.


(2) Suits alleging individual liability arising from performance of official duties by DA personnel.


(3) Actions affecting DA operations or activities or which might require official action by DA personnel.


(4) Actions arising out of DA contracts, subcontracts, or purchase orders wherein the government might be required to reimburse a contractor for litigation expenses.


(5) Bankruptcy proceedings in which the United States or its instrumentalities may have an interest, including bankruptcies involving government contractors.


(b) *Command and agency responsibility.* Commanders and supervisors of Army units, installations, or organizations will ensure reports required by this section are promptly submitted.


(c) *Reports to HQDA.* Reports required by this regulation will be made telephonically or mailed to the responsible organization at DA. Appendix B to this part contains mailing addresses for these offices. Except in the situations described below, reports required by this chapter will be made to Litigation Division:


(1) Actual or potential litigation (or administrative infringement claims) involving patents, copyrights, or trademarks will be made to Intellectual Property Law Division.


(2) Reports of pending or prospective litigation involving taxation will be made to Contract Law Division.


(3) Communications, transportation, and utility services reports will be made to Regulatory Law Office.


(4) Reports involving environmental and natural resource litigation and administrative proceedings will be made to Environmental Law Division.


(5) Potential civil recovery reports in cases of procurement fraud and corruption will be made to Procurement Fraud Division.


(6) Reports involving the felony prosecution program and magistrate court prosecutions will be made to Criminal Law Division, OTJAG.


(7) Cases before the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals and the General Services Board of Contract Appeals will be made to Contract Appeals Division.


(d) *Classified information.* Information required by this regulation will be submitted in an unclassified form if possible. If downgrading or declassification is not feasible, the classified material should be separated from the report and forwarded under separate cover.


(e) *Other reporting requirements.* Reports required by this chapter are in addition to and do not satisfy any other reporting requirement, such as the following: notifying the FBI of offenses pursuant to AR 27-10; submitting serious incident reports pursuant to AR 190-40; reporting procurement fraud or other irregularities per Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, section 209.406-3 (48 CFR 209.406-3); reporting the exercise of criminal jurisdiction by foreign tribunals over U.S. personnel pursuant to AR 27-50; or, reporting bankruptcies per AR 37-103.


(f) *Reports control exemption.* The reports required herein are exempt from reports control under AR 335-15, paragraphs 3-3a(5) and 5-2e(4).




