# ยง 424.541   Stay of enrollment.

(a)(1) CMS may stay an enrolled provider's or supplier's enrollment if the provider or supplier:


(i) Is non-compliant with at least one enrollment requirement in Title 42; and.


(ii) Can remedy the non-compliance via the submission of, as applicable to the situation, a Form CMS-855, Form CMS-20134, or Form CMS-588 change of information or revalidation application.


(2) During the period of any stay imposed under this section, the following apply:


(i) The provider or supplier remains enrolled in Medicare;


(ii)(A) Except as stated in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, claims submitted by the provider or supplier with dates of service within the stay period will be rejected.


(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A), claims submitted by the provider or supplier with dates of service within the stay period are eligible for payment (and may be resubmitted by the provider or supplier within applicable timeframes specified in Title 42) if:


(*1*) CMS or its contractor determines that the provider or supplier has resumed compliance with all Medicare enrollment requirements in Title 42; and


(*2*) The stay ends (as described in subsection (a)(5) of this section) on or before the 60th day of the stay period.


(3) A stay of enrollment lasts no longer than 60 days from the postmark date of the notification letter, which is the effective date of the stay.


(4) CMS notifies the affected provider or supplier in writing of the imposition of the stay.


(5) A stay of enrollment ends on the date on which CMS or its contractor determines that the provider or supplier has resumed compliance with all Medicare enrollment requirements in Title 42 or the day after the 60-day stay period expires, whichever occurs first.


(b)(1) If a provider or supplier receives written notice from CMS or its contractor that the provider or supplier is subject to a stay under this section, the provider or supplier has 15 calendar days from the date of the written notice to submit a rebuttal to the stay as described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) CMS may, at its discretion, extend the 15-day time-period referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) Any rebuttal submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section must:


(i) Be in writing.


(ii) Specify the facts or issues about which the provider or supplier disagrees with the stay's imposition and/or the effective date, and the reasons for disagreement.


(iii) Submit all documentation the provider or supplier wants CMS to consider in its review of the stay.


(iv) Be submitted in the form of a letter that is signed and dated by the individual supplier (if enrolled as an individual physician or nonphysician practitioner), the authorized official or delegated official (as those terms are defined in ยง 424.502), or a legal representative (as defined in 42 CFR 498.10). If the legal representative is an attorney, the attorney must include a statement that he or she has the authority to represent the provider or supplier; this statement is sufficient to constitute notice of such authority. If the legal representative is not an attorney, the provider or supplier must file with CMS written notice of the appointment of a representative; this notice of appointment must be signed and dated by, as applicable, the individual supplier, the authorized official or delegated official, or a legal representative.


(4) The provider's or supplier's failure to submit a rebuttal that is both timely under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and fully compliant with all of the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section constitutes a waiver of all rebuttal rights under this section.


(5) Upon receipt of a timely and compliant stay rebuttal, CMS reviews the rebuttal to determine whether the imposition of the stay and/or the effective date thereof are correct.


(6) A determination made under paragraph (b) of this section is not an initial determination under 42 CFR 498.3(b) and therefore not appealable.


(7) Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section requires CMS to delay the imposition of a stay pending the completion of the review described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.


(8)(i) Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section requires CMS to delay the imposition of a deactivation or revocation, pending the completion of the review described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.


(ii)(A) If CMS deactivates the provider or supplier during the stay, any rebuttal to the stay that the provider or supplier submits that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section is combined and considered with the provider's or supplier's rebuttal to the deactivation under ยง 424.546 if CMS has not yet made a determination on the stay rebuttal pursuant to this section.


(B) In all cases other than that described in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(A) of this section, a stay rebuttal that was submitted in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section is considered separately and independently of any review of any other rebuttal or, for revocations, appeal under 42 CFR part 498.



---

[N] [88 FR 79542, Nov. 16, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 9784, Feb. 12, 2024]








