# ยง 1605.6   National Appeal Board.

(a) There is hereby created and established within the Selective Service System a civilian agency of appeal which shall be known as the National Appeal Board. The President shall appoint not less than three members to the National Appeal Board, and he shall designate one member as chairman.


(b) The President shall appoint members of the National Appeal Board from among citizens of the United States who:


(1) Are not active or retired members of the Armed Forces or any reserve component thereof;


(2) Have not served as a member of the National Appeal Board for a period of more than five years;


(3) Are at least 18 years of age;


(4) Are able to devote sufficient time to duties of the Board; and


(5) Are willing to fairly and uniformly apply Selective Service Law.


(c)(1) A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, shall decide any question.


(2) The National Appeal Board may sit *en banc,* or upon the request of the Director or as determined by the chairman of the National Appeal Board, in panels, each panel to consist of at least three members. The Chairman of the National Appeal Board shall designate the members of each panel and he shall designate one member of each panel as chairman. A majority of the members of a panel shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, shall decide any question. Each panel of the National Appeal Board shall have full authority to act on all cases assigned to it.


(3) The National Appeal Board or a panel thereof shall hold meetings in Washington, DC, and upon request of the Director or as determined by the Chairman of the National Appeal Board, at any other place.


(d) The National Appeal Board or panel thereof shall classify each registrant whose classification has been appealed to the President under part 1653 of this chapter.


(e) No member of the National Appeal Board shall act on the case of a registrant who is the member's first cousin or closer relation either by blood, marriage, or adoption, or who is the member's employer, employee or fellow employee or stands in the relationship of superior or subordinate of the member in connection with any employment, or is a partner or close business associate of the member, or is a fellow member or employee of the National Appeal Board. A member of the National Appeal Board must disqualify himself in any matter in which we would be restricted for any reason in making an impartial decision.


(f) Each member of the National Appeal Board while on the business of the National Appeal Board away from his home or regular place of business shall receive actual travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence in accordance with rates established by Federal Travel Regulations.


(g) The Director shall pay the expenses of the members of the National Appeal Board in accord with applicable Federal Travel Regulations and shall furnish that Board and its panels necessary personnel, suitable office space, necessary facilities and services.



---

[N] [52 FR 8890, Mar. 20, 1987]




