# § 142.22   Application for special permit for immediate delivery.

(a) *Form.* An application for a special permit for immediate delivery will be made on CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, supported by the documentation provided for in § 142.3. A commercial invoice will not be required, except for merchandise released under the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1484(j). Instead of a commercial invoice, the importer may deliver to CBP a pro forma invoice, waybill, or other document setting forth an adequate description of the merchandise and the quantities, together with the values or approximate values when values are needed for the purpose of examination. If the merchandise is to be released under a term special permit, the documentation also shall show the term special permit number, as provided for in § 142.24.


(b) *CBP custody.* Merchandise for which a special permit for immediate delivery has been issued under § 142.21 of this part shall be considered to remain in CBP custody until the filing of one of the following:


(1) An entry summary for consumption, with estimated duties attached; an entry summary for consumption without estimated duties attached, if entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date (pursuant to § 24.25 of this chapter) have successfully been received by CBP via the Automated Broker Interface; an entry summary for warehouse; or an entry summary for entry temporarily under bond, which may be filed in any of the circumstances under § 142.21 of this part except for merchandise released from warehouse under § 142.21(f) of this part;


(2) A withdrawal for consumption, with estimated duties attached, which shall be filed only for merchandise released from warehouse under § 142.21(f) of this part;


(3) An entry for transportation and exportation, immediate transportation without appraisement, or direct exportation, which shall be filed in those circumstances under § 142.21(b) and (e)(2) of this part; or entry for transportation and exportation, or direct exportation, which shall be filed in the circumstances under § 142.28 of this part or


(4) An application to destroy, which shall be filed in those circumstances under §§ 142.21(b) and (e)(2), and § 142.28 of this part.



---

[N] [T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46821, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 81-260, 46 FR 49842, Oct. 8, 1981; T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50499, Dec. 7, 1989; T.D. 03-09, 68 FR 8721, Feb. 25, 2003; CBP Dec. 06-11, 71 FR 31927, June 2, 2006; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61289, Oct. 13, 2015]




