# § 62.101   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part:


*Access.* The right to examine and copy records.


*Action level.* An 8-hour time-weighted average sound level (TWA_8_) of 85 dBA, or equivalently a dose of 50%, integrating all sound levels from 80 dBA to at least 130 dBA.


*Audiologist.* A professional, specializing in the study and rehabilitation of hearing, who is certified by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) or licensed by a state board of examiners.


*Baseline audiogram.* The audiogram recorded in accordance with § 62.170(a) of this part against which subsequent audiograms are compared to determine the extent of hearing loss.


*Criterion level.* The sound level which if constantly applied for 8 hours results in a dose of 100% of that permitted by the standard.


*Decibel (dB).* A unit of measure of sound pressure levels, defined in one of two ways, depending upon the use:


(1) For measuring sound pressure levels, the decibel is 20 times the common logarithm of the ratio of the measured sound pressure to the standard reference sound pressure of 20 micropascals (µPa), which is the threshold of normal hearing sensitivity at 1000 Hertz (Hz).


(2) For measuring hearing threshold levels, the decibel is the difference between audiometric zero (reference pressure equal to 0 hearing threshold level) and the threshold of hearing of the individual being tested at each test frequency.


*Dual Hearing Protection Level.* A TWA_8_ of 105 dBA, or equivalently, a dose of 800% of that permitted by the standard, integrating all sound levels from 90 dBA to at least 140 dBA.


*Exchange rate.* The amount of increase in sound level, in decibels, which would require halving of the allowable exposure time to maintain the same noise dose. For the purposes of this part, the exchange rate is 5 decibels (5 dB).


*Hearing protector.* Any device or material, capable of being worn on the head or in the ear canal, sold wholly or in part on the basis of its ability to reduce the level of sound entering the ear, and which has a scientifically accepted indicator of noise reduction value.


*Hertz (Hz).* Unit of measurement of frequency numerically equal to cycles per second.


*Medical pathology.* A condition or disease affecting the ear.


*Miner's designee.* Any individual or organization to whom a miner gives written authorization to exercise a right of access to records.


*Qualified technician.* A technician who has been certified by the Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC), or by another recognized organization offering equivalent certification.


*Permissible exposure level.* A TWA_8_ of 90 dBA or equivalently a dose of 100% of that permitted by the standard, integrating all sound levels from 90 dBA to at least 140 dBA.


*Reportable hearing loss.* A change in hearing sensitivity for the worse, relative to the miner's baseline audiogram, or the miner's revised baseline audiogram where one has been established in accordance with § 62.170(c)(2), of an average of 25 dB or more at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz in either ear.


*Revised baseline audiogram.* An annual audiogram designated to be used in lieu of a miner's original baseline audiogram in measuring changes in hearing sensitivity as a result of the circumstances set forth in §§ 62.170(c)(1) or 62.170(c)(2) of this part.


*Sound level.* The sound pressure level in decibels measured using the A-weighting network and a slow response, expressed in the unit dBA.


*Standard threshold shift.* A change in hearing sensitivity for the worse relative to the miner's baseline audiogram, or relative to the most recent revised baseline audiogram where one has been established, of an average of 10 dB or more at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz in either ear.


*Time-weighted average-8 hour* (TWA_8_). The sound level which, if constant over 8 hours, would result in the same noise dose as is measured.




