# § 303.248   Truth in Lending Act—Relief from reimbursement.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to requests for relief from reimbursement pursuant to the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) and Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226). Related delegations of authority are also set forth. 


(b) *Procedures to be followed in filing initial requests for relief.* Requests for relief from reimbursement shall be filed with the appropriate FDIC office or within 60 days after receipt of the compliance report of examination containing the request to conduct a file search and make restitution to affected customers. The filing shall contain a complete and concise statement of the action requested, all relevant facts, the reasons and analysis relied upon as the basis for such requested action, and all supporting documentation. 


(c) *Additional information.* The FDIC may request additional information at any time during processing of any such requests. 


(d) *Processing.* The FDIC will acknowledge receipt of the request for reconsideration and provide the applicant with written notification of its determination within 60 days of its receipt of the request for reconsideration. 


(e) *Procedures to be followed in filing requests for reconsideration.* Within 15 days of receipt of written notice that its request for relief has been denied, the requestor may petition the appropriate FDIC office for reconsideration of such request in accordance with the procedures set forth in§ 303.11(f). 



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002. Redesignated at 71 FR 20526, Apr. 21, 2006]




