# § 404.820   Filing a request for correction of the record of your earnings.

(a) *When to file a request for correction.* You or your survivor must file a request for correction of the record of your earnings within the time limit for the year being questioned unless one of the exceptions in § 404.822 applies.


(b) *Contents of a request.* (1) A request for correction of an earnings record must be in writing and must state that the record is incorrect.


(2) A request must be signed by you or your survivor or by a person who may sign an application for benefits for you or for your survivor as described in § 404.612.


(3) A request should state the period being questioned.


(4) A request should describe, or have attached to it, any available evidence which shows that the record of earnings is incorrect.


(c) *Where to file a request.* A request may be filed with an SSA employee at one of our offices or with an SSA employee who is authorized to receive a request at a place other than one of our offices. A request may be filed with the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines or with any U.S. Foreign Service Office.


(d) *When a request is considered filed.* A request is considered filed on the day it is received by any of our offices, by an authorized SSA employee, by the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines, or by any U.S. Foreign Service Office. If using the date we receive a mailed request disadvantages the requester, we will use the date the request was mailed to us as shown by a U.S. postmark. If the postmark is unreadable or there is no postmark, we will consider other evidence of the date when the request was mailed.


(e) *Withdrawal of a request for correction.* A request for correction of SSA records of your earnings may be withdrawn as described in § 404.640.


(f) *Cancellation of a request to withdraw.* A request to withdraw a request for correction of SSA records of your earnings may be cancelled as described in § 404.641.


(g) *Determinations on requests.* When we receive a request described in this section, we will make a determination to grant or deny the request. If we deny the request, this determination may be appealed under the provisions of subpart J of this part.




