# § 405.984   Effect of a revised determination or decision.

(a) *Initial determinations.* The revision of an initial determination is binding upon all parties unless a party files a written request for a redetermination that is accepted and processed in accordance with § 405.940 through § 405.958.


(b) *Redeterminations.* The revision of a redetermination is binding upon all parties unless a party files a written request for a QIC reconsideration that is accepted and processed in accordance with § 405.960 through § 405.978.


(c) *Reconsiderations.* The revision of a reconsideration is binding upon all parties unless a party files a written request for an ALJ hearing that is accepted and processed in accordance with § 405.1000 through § 405.1063.


(d) *ALJ or attorney adjudicator decisions.* The revision of an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision is binding upon all parties unless a party files a written request for a Council review that is accepted and processed in accordance with § 405.1100 through § 405.1130.


(e) *Council review.* The revision of a Council review is binding upon all parties unless a party files a civil action in which a Federal district court accepts jurisdiction and issues a decision.


(f) *Appeal of only the portion of the determination or decision revised by the reopening.* Only the portion of the initial determination, redetermination, reconsideration, or hearing decision revised by the reopening may be subsequently appealed.


(g) *Effect of a revised determination or decision.* A revised determination or decision is binding unless it is appealed or otherwise reopened.



---

[N] [70 FR 11472, Mar. 8, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 5108, Jan. 17, 2017]




