# § 147.2200   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Texas, except for those wells on Indian lands, Class III brine mining wells, and certain Class V wells, is the program administered by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). Notice of the original approval for Class I, III, IV, and V wells was published in the _Federal Register_ on January 6, 1982 and became effective February 7, 1982. Class V geothermal wells and wells for the *in situ* combustion of coal are regulated by the Rail Road Commission of Texas under a separate UIC program approved by EPA and published in the _Federal Register_ on April 23, 1982. A subsequent program revision application for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, not including Class III brine mining wells, was approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 25, 2004; the effective date of these programs is March 26, 2004. The program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, not including Class III brine mining wells, consists of the following elements as submitted to the EPA in the State's revised program applications. The UIC program for Class III brine mining wells in the State of Texas, except for those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Railroad Commission of Texas. A program revision application for Class III brine mining wells was submitted by Texas and approved by EPA. Notice of that approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 26, 2004; the effective date of this program is March 29, 2004.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made part of the applicable UIC program under SDWA for the State of Texas. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the materials that are incorporated by reference in this paragraph are available at EPA Region VI, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102 or from the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). If you wish to obtain material from the EPA Regional Office, please call (800) 887-6063 or (214) 665-2760. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(1) Texas Statutory and Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Injection Control Program for Class I, III, IV, and V Wells, except for Class III Brine Mining Wells, March 2002. 


(2) Texas Statutory and Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Injection Control Program for Class III Brine Mining Wells, March 2002.


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, as effective on March 31, 2002, although not incorporated by reference except for any provisions identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered UIC program. 


(1) *Class I, III, IV, and V wells.* (i) Title 30 of the Texas Administrative Code Chapters 39, 50, 55, 80, and 281. 


(ii) Vernon's Texas Codes Annotated, Water Code, Chapters 5, 7, 26, and 32, Health and Safety Code Section 361, Government Code (ORA) Chapter 552 and Government Code (APA) Chapter 2001. 


(2) *Class III brine mining wells.* (i) Vernon's Texas Codes Annotated, Natural Resources Code, Chapters 91, 2001, and 331; 


(ii) Vernon's Texas Codes Annotated, Government Code Title 10, Chapters 2001, 552, and 311. 


(iii) General Rules of Practice and Procedure before the Railroad Commission of Texas. 


(c) *Memorandum of Agreement*—(1) *Class I, III, IV, and V wells.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission a predecessor to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), revised March 23, 1999, and signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 23, 2001. 


(2) *Class III brine mining wells.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the Railroad Commission of Texas signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 23, 2001. 


(d) *Statement of legal authority*—(1) *Class I, III, IV, and V wells.* “State of Texas Office of Attorney General Statement for Class I, III, IV, and V Underground Injections Wells,” signed by the Attorney General of Texas, June 30, 1998. 


(2) *Class III brine mining wells.* State of Texas “Attorney General's Statement” for Class III Brine Mining Injection Wells, signed by the Attorney General of Texas, February 2, 1992 and the “Supplement to Attorney General's Statement of February 19, 1992,” signed by the Attorney General of Texas, June 2, 1998. 


(e) *Program Description*—(1) *Class I, III, IV, and V wells.* The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the revision application or as supplements thereto. 


(2) *Class III brine mining wells.* The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the revision application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [69 FR 8568, Feb. 25, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 8828, Feb. 26, 2004; 84 FR 44230, Aug. 23, 2019]




