# ยง 32.46   Procedure for effecting compliance.

(a) *General.* If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this regulation and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, the Department may suspend, terminate or refuse to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance or take any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:


(1) A referral to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States or any assurance; and


(2) Any applicable proceeding under state or local law.


(b) *Noncompliance with the requirements of this part.* If a recipient fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part, the Department may institute an administrative enforcement proceeding to compel compliance with the requirement, to seek appropriate relief, and or to terminate Federal financial assistance in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Department shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under such paragraph if grants have not yet been approved or funds not yet committed to the recipient. However, the Department shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application therefor approved prior to the effective date of this part.


(c) *Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance.* No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall become effective until:


(1) The Assistant Secretary has advised the applicant or recipient of its failure to comply and compliance has not been secured by voluntary means; and


(2) There has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part. Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or other applicant or recipient as to whom such a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program or activity, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found.


(d) *Other means authorized by law.* No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until:


(1) The Assistant Secretary has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;


(2) The recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance; and


(3) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient or other person.



---

[N] [45 FR 66709, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51368, Aug. 26, 2003]




