# ยง 84.47   Nonacademic services.

(a) *Physical education and athletics.* (1) In providing physical education courses and athletics and similar aids, benefits, or services to any of its students, a recipient to which this subpart applies may not discriminate on the basis of disability. A recipient that offers physical education courses or that operates or sponsors intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall provide to qualified students with disabilities an equal opportunity for participation in these activities. 


(2) A recipient may offer to students with disabilities physical education and athletic activities that are separate or different only if separation or differentiation is consistent with the requirements of ยง 84.43(d) and only if no qualified student with a disability is denied the opportunity to compete for teams or to participate in courses that are not separate or different. 


(b) *Counseling and placement services.* A recipient to which this subpart applies that provides personal, academic, or vocational counseling, guidance, or placement services to its students shall provide these services without discrimination on the basis of disability. The recipient shall ensure that qualified students with disabilities are not counseled toward more restrictive career objectives than are students without disabilities with similar interests and abilities. This requirement does not preclude a recipient from providing factual information about licensing and certification requirements that may present obstacles to persons with disabilities in their pursuit of particular careers. 


(c) *Social organizations.* A recipient that provides significant assistance to fraternities, sororities, or similar organizations shall assure itself that the membership practices of such organizations do not permit discrimination otherwise prohibited by this subpart. 



---

[N] [42 FR 22677, May 4, 1977, as amended at 70 FR 24320, May 9, 2005; 89 FR 40187, May 9, 2024]




