# § 65.152   Carbon adsorbers used as control devices.

(a) *Carbon adsorber equipment and operating requirements.* (1) Owners or operators using carbon adsorbers to meet the 98 weight-percent emission reduction or 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration requirements as specified in § 65.63(a)(2), or 40 CFR 60.562-1(a)(1)(i)(A) for process vents, or § 65.83(a)(1) for high-throughput transfer racks, as applicable, shall meet the requirements of this section. 


(2) Carbon adsorbers used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions are vented to them. 


(b) *Carbon adsorber performance test requirements.* (1) Unless an initial performance test was previously conducted and submitted under the referencing subpart and except as specified in § 65.157(b), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test of any carbon absorber used as a control device to comply with the provisions of this subpart according to the procedures in §§ 65.157 and 65.158. Performance test records shall be kept as specified in § 65.160(a) and (b), and a performance test report shall be submitted as specified in § 65.164. As provided in § 65.145(b)(1), a performance test may be used as an alternative to the design evaluation for storage vessels and low-throughput transfer rack controls. As provided in § 65.146(b), no performance test is required to demonstrate compliance for equipment leaks. 


(2) Unless already permitted by the applicable title V permit, if an owner or operator elects to use a carbon adsorber to replace an existing recovery or control device at a later date, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator either by amendment of the regulated source's title V permit or, if title V is not applicable, by submission of the notice specified in § 65.167(a) before implementing the change. Upon implementing the change, either of the following provisions, as applicable, shall be followed: 


(i) *Replace final recovery device.* If an owner or operator elects to replace the final recovery device on a process vent with a carbon adsorber used as a control device, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable provisions of §§ 65.63(e) and 65.67(b). 


(ii) *Replace control device.* If an owner or operator elects to replace a control device on a Group 1 process vent or high-throughput transfer rack with a carbon adsorber used as a control device, the owner or operator shall perform a performance test using the methods specified in §§ 65.157 and 65.158 within 180 days. The performance test report shall be submitted to the Administrator within 60 days of completing the test as provided in § 65.164(b)(2). 


(c) *Carbon adsorber monitoring requirements.* (1) Where a carbon adsorber is used as a control device, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, or an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent or better capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle, and a carbon-bed temperature monitoring device capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle, shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156. 


(2) The owner or operator shall establish a range for monitored parameters that indicates proper operation of the carbon adsorber. Where the regeneration stream flow and carbon-bed temperature are monitored, the range shall be in terms of the total regeneration stream flow per regeneration cycle and the temperature of the carbon-bed determined within 15 minutes of the completion of the regeneration cooling cycle. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 65.165(c) shall be submitted in the Initial Compliance Status Report or the operating permit application or amendment. The range may be based upon a prior performance test meeting the specifications in § 65.157(b)(1) or upon existing ranges or limits established under a referencing subpart. 




