# § 63.985   Nonflare control devices used to control emissions from storage vessels and low throughput transfer racks.

(a) *Nonflare control device equipment and operating requirements.* The owner or operator shall operate and maintain the nonflare control device so that the monitored parameters defined as required in paragraph (c) of this section remain within the ranges specified in the Notification of Compliance Status whenever emissions of regulated material are routed to the control device except during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart.


(b) *Nonflare control device design evaluation or performance test requirements.* When using a control device other than a flare, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.


(1) *Design evaluation or performance test results.* The owner or operator shall prepare and submit with the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.999(b)(2), either a design evaluation that includes the information specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, or the results of the performance test as described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) *Design evaluation.* The design evaluation shall include documentation demonstrating that the control device being used achieves the required control efficiency during the reasonably expected maximum storage vessel filling or transfer loading rate. This documentation is to include a description of the gas stream that enters the control device, including flow and regulated material content, and the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, as applicable. For storage vessels, the description of the gas stream that enters the control device shall be provided for varying liquid level conditions. This documentation shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.999(b)(2).


(A) The efficiency determination is to include consideration of all vapors, gases, and liquids, other than fuels, received by the control device.


(B) If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds and a minimum temperature of 760 °C is used to meet an emission reduction requirement specified in a referencing subpart for storage vessels and transfer racks, documentation that those conditions exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(C) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section for enclosed combustion devices, the design evaluation shall include the estimated autoignition temperature of the stream being combusted, the flow rate of the stream, the combustion temperature, and the residence time at the combustion temperature.


(D) For carbon adsorbers, the design evaluation shall include the estimated affinity of the regulated material vapors for carbon, the amount of carbon in each bed, the number of beds, the humidity, the temperature, the flow rate of the inlet stream and, if applicable, the desorption schedule, the regeneration stream pressure or temperature, and the flow rate of the regeneration stream. For vacuum desorption, pressure drop shall be included.


(E) For condensers, the design evaluation shall include the final temperature of the stream vapors, the type of condenser, and the design flow rate of the emission stream.


(ii) *Performance test.* A performance test, whether conducted to meet the requirements of this section, or to demonstrate compliance for a process vent or high throughput transfer rack as required by § 63.988(b), § 63.990(b), or § 63.995(b), is acceptable to demonstrate compliance with emission reduction requirements for storage vessels and transfer racks. The owner or operator is not required to prepare a design evaluation for the control device as described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if a performance test will be performed that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The performance test will demonstrate that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control device performance level specified in a referencing subpart for storage vessels or transfer racks; and


(B) The performance test meets the applicable performance test requirements and the results are submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.999(b)(2).


(2) *Exceptions.* A design evaluation or performance test is not required if the owner or operator uses a combustion device meeting the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.


(i) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) or greater.


(ii) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator meets the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) The boiler or process heater has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, or


(B) The boiler or process heater has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(iii) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator meets the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) The incinerator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O; or


(B) The incinerator has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O; or


(iv) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel.


(3) *Prior design evaluations or performance tests.* If a design evaluation or performance test is required in the referencing subpart or was previously conducted and submitted for a storage vessel or low throughput transfer rack, then a performance test or design evaluation is not required.


(c) *Nonflare control device monitoring requirements.* (1) The owner or operator shall submit with the Notification of Compliance Status, a monitoring plan containing the information specified in § 63.999(b)(2)(i) and (ii) to identify the parameters that will be monitored to assure proper operation of the control device.


(2) The owner or operator shall monitor the parameters specified in the Notification of Compliance Status or in the operating permit application or amendment. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.998(d)(2)(i).




