# § 721.532   1-Butanol, 3-methoxy-3-methyl-, acetate.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-butanol, 3-methoxy-3-methyl-, acetate (PMN P-00-618; SNUN S-05-03; and SNUN S-11-4; CAS No. 103429-90-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than the use described in P-00-618.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) The significant new uses for any use other than the use described in P-00-618:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. Butyl rubber gloves with a minimum thickness of 16.6 mils or Silver shield gloves with a minimum thickness of 2.7 mils have been tested in accordance with the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F739 method and found by EPA to satisfy the consent orders and § 721.63(a)(2)(i) requirements for dermal protection to 100 percent chemical substance. Silver Shield gloves with a minimum thickness of 2.7 mils have been tested in accordance with the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F739 method and found by EPA to satisfy the consent orders and § 721.63(a)(2)(i) requirements for dermal protection for paint formulations where concentrations of the chemical substance is 10% or less. Gloves and other dermal protection may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (o), and any application method that generates a vapor, mist, or aerosol when the percent concentration of the SNUN substance in the final product exceeds 10%.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37164, June 30, 2015]




