# § 337.7   Interest rate restrictions.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *National rate.* The weighted average of rates paid by all insured depository institutions and credit unions on a given deposit product, for which data are available, where the weights are each institution's market share of domestic deposits.


(2) *National rate cap.* The higher of:


(i) National rate plus 75 basis points, or


(ii) 120 percent of the current yield on similar maturity U.S. Treasury obligations plus 75 basis points or, in the case of any nonmaturity deposit, the federal funds rate plus 75 basis points.


(3) *Local market rate cap.* Ninety (90) percent of the highest interest rate paid on a particular deposit product in the institution's local market area. An institution's local market rate cap shall be based upon the rate offered on a particular product type and maturity period by an insured depository institution or credit union that is accepting deposits at a physical location within the institution's local market area.


(4) *Local market area.* An institution's local market area is any readily defined geographical market area in which the insured depository institution accepts or solicits deposits, which may include the State, county or metropolitan statistical area, in which the insured depository institution accepts or solicits deposits.


(5) *On-tenor and off-tenor maturities.* On-tenor maturities include the following term periods: 1-month, 3-months, 6-months, 12-months, 24-months, 36-months, 48-months, and 60-months. All other term periods are considered off-tenor maturities for purposes of this section.


(b) *Computation and publication of national rate cap*—(1) *Computation.* The Corporation will compute the national rate cap for different deposit products and maturities, as determined by the Corporation based on available and reported data.


(2) *Publication.* The Corporation will publish the national rate cap monthly, but reserves the discretion to publish more or less frequently, if needed, on the Corporation's website. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for institutions that are less than well capitalized at the time of publication, a national rate cap that is lower than the previously published national rate cap will take effect 3 days after publication. The previously published national rate cap will remain in effect during this 3-day period.


(c) *Application*—(1) *Well-capitalized institutions.* A well-capitalized institution may pay interest without restriction by this section.


(2) *Institutions that are not well capitalized.* An institution that is not well capitalized may not: Solicit deposits by offering a rate of interest that exceeds the applicable rate cap; or, where an institution has accepted brokered deposits pursuant to a waiver described in § 337.6(c), pay a rate of interest that, at the time such deposit is accepted, exceeds the applicable rate cap. For purposes of this section, the applicable rate cap is the national rate cap or, if the institution has provided the notice and evidence described in subsection (d) of this section, the local market rate cap for deposits gathered in the institution's local market area. If an institution gathers deposits from more than one local area, it may seek to pay a rate of interest up to its local market rate cap for deposits gathered in each respective local market area.


(d) *Notice related to local market rate cap applicability.* An insured depository institution that seeks to pay a rate of interest up to its local market rate cap shall provide notice and evidence of the highest rate paid on a particular deposit product in the institution's local market area to the appropriate FDIC regional director. The institution shall update its evidence and calculations for existing and new accounts monthly unless otherwise instructed by the appropriate FDIC regional director, and retain such information available for at least the two most recent examination cycles and, upon the FDIC's request, provide the documentation to the appropriate FDIC regional office and to examination staff during any subsequent examinations.


(e) *Offering products with off-tenor maturities.* If an institution seeks to offer a product with an off-tenor maturity for which the FDIC does not publish the national rate cap or that is not offered by another institution within its local market area, then the institution will be required to use the rate offered on the next lower on-tenor maturity for that product when determining its applicable national or local rate cap, respectively. For example, an institution seeking to offer a 26-month certificate of deposit must use the rate offered for a 24-month certificate of deposit to determine the institution's applicable national or local rate cap. There is no off-tenor maturity for nonmaturity products such as an interest checking account, savings account, or money market deposit account.


(f) *Discretion to delay effect of published national rate cap.* In the event of a substantial decrease in the published national rate cap from one month to the next, the Corporation may, in its discretion, delay the date on which the published national rate cap takes effect. The previously published national rate cap will remain in effect until the effective date, as determined by the Corporation, of the subsequent published national rate cap.


(g) *Treatment of nonmaturity deposits for purposes of this section.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply.


(1) *Solicitation of nonmaturity deposits.* (i) An institution solicits a nonmaturity deposit when—


(A) A nonmaturity account is opened;


(B) The institution raises the rate being paid on a nonmaturity account existing at the time when the institution was last well capitalized; or,


(C) Funds for a new depositor are credited to a nonmaturity account existing at the time when the institution was last well capitalized.


(2) *Acceptance of nonmaturity brokered deposits subject to a waiver.* A less than well capitalized institution that accepts nonmaturity brokered deposits subject to waiver, with respect to a particular deposit broker, may not pay interest in excess of the applicable rate cap on:


(i) Any new nonmaturity accounts opened by or through that particular deposit broker;


(ii) An amount of funds that exceeds the amount(s) in the account(s) that, at the time the institution fell to less than well capitalized, had been opened by or through the particular deposit broker; or


(iii) For agency or nominee accounts, any funds for a new depositor credited to a nonmaturity account or accounts.



---

[N] [86 FR 6791, Jan. 22, 2021]




