# § 60.463   Performance test and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8(d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test.


(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8(a) and thereafter a performance test for each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.


(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining monthly volume-weighted average emissions of VOC's in kg/*l* of coating solids applied.


(1) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that does not use a capture system and control device to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.462(a)(1). The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or by an analysisof each coating, as received, using Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coatings to determine the VOC content of coatings using Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine the volume of coating and the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings from company records on a monthly basis. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and existing facilities, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coating used at each affected facility by using the average dry weight of coating and the surface area coated by each affected and existing facility or by other procedures acceptable to the Administrator.


(i) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied during each calendar month for each affected facility, except as provided under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. The weighted average of the total mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied each calendar month is determined by the following procedures.


(A) Calculate the mass of VOC's used (Mo + Md) during each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:


(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used (L_s_) in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:


(C) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:


(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:


(iii) Where the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's discharged to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) is equal to or less than 0.28 kg/*l*, the affected facility is in compliance.


(iv) If each individual coating used by an affected facility has a VOC content, as received, that is equal to or less than 0.28 kg/*l* of coating solids, the affected facility is in compliance provided no VOC's are added to the coatings during distribution or application.


(2) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that continuously uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC's (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.462(a) (2) or (3).


(i) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device.


(A) Determine the fraction (F) of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device using the following equation:


(B) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation:


(C) Determine overall reduction efficiency (R) using the following equation:


(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section. 


(iii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during each calendar month by the following equation:


(iv) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to 0.14 kg/*l* of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test. 


(3) An owner or operator shall use the following procedure for each affected facility that uses a control device that recovers the VOC's (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.462(a) (2) or (3). 


(i) Calculate the total mass of VOC's consumed (M_o_ + M_d_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equation (1). 


(ii) Calculate the total mass of VOC's recovered (M_r_) during each calendar month using the following equation:


(iii) Calculate the overall reduction efficiency of the control device (R) for each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(iv) Calculate the total volume of coating solids consumed (L_s_) and the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) (B) and (C) of this section. 


(v) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere (N) for each calendar month for each affected facility using equation (8).


(vi) If the weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to 0.14 kg/*l* of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.


(4) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that intermittently uses a capture system and a control device to comply with the emission limit specified in § 60.462(a)(4).


(i) Calculate the total volume of coating solids applied without the control device in operation (L_sn_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(ii) Calculate the total volume of coating solids applied with the control device in operation (L_sc_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(iii) Calculate the mass of VOC's used without the control device in operation (M_on_ + M_dn_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(iv) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied without the control device in operation (G_n_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(v) Calculate the mass of VOC's used with the control device in operation (M_oc_ + M_dc_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(vi) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied with the control device in operation (G_c_) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(vii) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) or paragraphs (c)(3) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, whichever is applicable. 


(viii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(ix) Calculate the emission limit(s) for each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:


(x) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to the calculated emission limit (S) for the calendar month, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.



---

[N] [47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982; 48 FR 1056, Jan. 10, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]




