# § 721.10997   Multiwalled carbon nanotubes (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as multiwalled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-15-487/488/489/490/491) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply when the PMN substances have been incorporated into a polymer matrix that has been reacted (cured) or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except mechanical processing.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (ii), (a)(3), (4), and (6) (particulate), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an APF of at least 50 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) A NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N-100, P-100, or R-100 cartridges.


(B) Any NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece and equipped with HEPA filters.


(C) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator equipped with a full facepiece.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (additives for electro-static discharge in electronic devices, electronics, and materials; additives for weight reduction in materials; additives to improve mechanical properties or electrical conductivities; heat-generating elements in heating devices and materials; additives for heat transfer and thermal emissions in electronic devices and materials; semi-conductor, conductive, or resistive elements in electronic circuity and devices; additives to improve conductivity in electronic circuitry, energy storage systems, and devices; electron emitters for lighting and x-ray sources; additive for electromagnetic interface shielding in electronic devices; additives for electrodes in electronic materials and electronic devices; catalyst support in chemical manufacturing; coating additives to improve corrosion resistance of conductive properties; additives for fibers in structural and electrical applications; additives for fibers in fabrics and textiles; filter additives to remove nanoscale materials; semi-conducting compounding additives for high-voltage cable; and additives for super-hydrophobicity). A significant new use is any use involving an application method that generates a dust, mist or aerosol.


(iii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85(a)(1) and (2), (b)(1) and (2), and (c)(1) and (2).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (i) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48648, Oct. 19, 2017]




