# ยง 11.11   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms have the meanings given in this section. Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act and used in this part shall have the meaning assigned to it by that Act.


*Act.* The Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.11, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 11, Consignment Sales.


*Exchange.* The transfer of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages from a trade buyer to an industry member with other products taken as a replacement.


*Industry member.* Any person engaged in business as a distiller, brewer, rectifier, blender, or other producer, or as an importer or wholesaler of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, or as a bottler or warehouseman and bottler, of distilled spirits.


*Product.* Distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, as defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Retailer.* Any person engaged in the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages to consumers. A wholesaler who makes incidental retail sales representing less than five percent of the wholesaler's total sales volume for the preceding two-month period shall not be considered a retailer with respect to such incidental sales.


*Return.* The transfer of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages from a trade buyer to the industry member from whom purchased, for cash or credit.


*Trade buyer.* Any person who is a wholesaler or retailer of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-74, 45 FR 63258, Sept. 23, 1980, as amended by T.D. ATF-364, 60 FR 20427, Apr. 26, 1995; T.D. ATF-428, 65 FR 52021, Aug. 28, 2000; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16924, Apr. 4, 2006]




