# § 80.82   What must an agency submit when applying for a project-by-project grant?

A State fish and wildlife agency must submit the following documents when applying for a project-by-project grant:


(a) The standard form for an application for Federal assistance in a mandatory grant program.


(b) The standard forms for assurances for nonconstruction programs and construction programs as applicable. Agencies may submit these standard forms for assurances annually to the Regional Director for use with all applications for Federal assistance in the programs and subprograms under the Acts.


(c) A project statement that describes each proposed project and provides the following information:


(1) *Need.* Explain why the project is necessary and how it fulfills the purposes of the relevant Act.


(2) *Purpose.* State the purpose and base it on the need. The purpose states the desired outcome of the proposed project in general or abstract terms.


(3) *Objectives.* State the objectives and base them on the need. The objectives state the desired outcome of the proposed project in terms that are specific and quantified.


(4) *Results or benefits expected.*

(5) *Approach.* Describe the methods used to achieve the stated objectives.


(6) *Useful life.* Propose a useful life for each capital improvement, and reference the method used to determine the useful life of a capital improvement with a value greater than $100,000.


(7) *Geographic location.*

(8) *Principal investigator for research projects.* Record the principal investigator's name, work address, and work telephone number.


(9) *Program income.*

(i) Estimate the amount of program income that the project is likely to generate.


(ii) Indicate the method or combination of methods (deduction, addition, or matching) of applying program income to Federal and non-Federal outlays.


(iii) Request the Regional Director's approval for the additive or matching method. Describe how the agency proposes to use the program income and the expected results. Describe the essential need when using program income as match.


(iv) Indicate whether the agency wants to treat program income that it earns after the grant period as either license revenue or additional funding for purposes consistent with the grant terms and conditions or program regulations.


(v) Indicate whether the agency wants to treat program income that the subgrantee earns as license revenue, additional funding for the purposes consistent with the grant or subprogram, or income subject only to the terms of the subgrant agreement.


(10) *Budget narrative.* (i) Provide costs by project and subaccount with additional information sufficient to show that the project is cost effective. Agencies may obtain the subaccount numbers from the Service's Regional Division of Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration.


(ii) Describe any item that requires the Service's approval and estimate its cost. Examples are preaward costs, capital improvements or expenditures, real property acquisitions, or equipment purchases.


(iii) Include a schedule of payments to finish the project if an agency proposes to use funds from two or more annual apportionments.


(11) *Multipurpose projects.* Describe the method for allocating costs in multipurpose projects and facilities as described in §§ 80.63 and 80.64.


(12) *Relationship with other grants.* Describe any relationship between this project and other work funded by Federal grants that is planned, anticipated, or underway.


(13) *Timeline.* Describe significant milestones in completing the project and any accomplishments to date.


(14) *General.* Provide information in the project statement that:


(i) Shows that the proposed activities are eligible for funding and substantial in character and design; and


(ii) Enables the Service to comply with the applicable requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 and 4331-4347), the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*), the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470s), and other laws, regulations, and policies.



---

[N] [76 FR 46156, Aug. 1, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 44787, Aug. 27, 2019]




