# § 68.103   Definitions.

In addition to the terms defined in § 67.3 of this chapter, as used in this subpart—


*Affiliate* means a person that is less than 50 percent owned or controlled by another person.


*Group* means the person that owns a vessel, the parent of that person, and all subsidiaries and affiliates of the parent of that person.


*Offshore supply vessel* means a motor vessel of more than 15 gross tons but less than 500 gross tons as measured under 46 U.S.C. 14502, or an alternate tonnage measured under 46 U.S.C. 14302 as prescribed under 46 U.S.C. 14104, that regularly carries goods, supplies, individuals in addition to the crew, or equipment in support of exploration, exploitation, or production of offshore mineral or energy resources.


*Operation or management of vessels* means all activities related to the use of vessels to provide services. These activities include ship agency; ship brokerage; activities performed by a vessel operator or demise charterer in exercising direction and control of a vessel, such as crewing, victualing, storing, and maintaining the vessel and ensuring its safe navigation; and activities associated with controlling the use and employment of the vessel under a time charter or other use agreement. It does not include activities directly associated with making financial investments in vessels or the receipt of earnings derived from these investments.


*Parent* means any person that directly or indirectly owns or controls at least 50 percent of another person. If an owner's parent is directly or indirectly controlled at least 50 percent by another person, that person is also a parent of the owner. Therefore, an owner may have multiple parents.


*Person* means an individual; corporation; partnership; limited liability partnership; limited liability company; association; joint venture; trust arrangement; and the government of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision of the United States or a State; and includes a trustee, beneficiary, receiver, or similar representative of any of them.


*Primarily engaged in leasing or other financing transactions* means lease financing, in which more than 50 percent of the aggregate revenue of a person is derived from banking, investing, lease financing, or other similar transactions.


*Replacement vessel means*—


(1) A temporary replacement vessel for a period not to exceed 180 days if the vessel described in § 68.50 is unavailable due to an act of God or a marine casualty; or


(2) A permanent replacement vessel if—


(i) The vessel described in § 68.50 is unavailable for more than 180 days due to an act of God or a marine casualty; or


(ii) A contract to purchase or construct a replacement vessel is executed not later than December 31, 2004.


*Sub-charter* means all types of charters or other contracts for the use of a vessel that are subordinate to a charter. The term includes, but is not limited to, a demise charter, a time charter, a voyage charter, a space charter, and a contract of affreightment.


*Subsidiary* means a person at least 50 percent of which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another person. 




