# § 27.2   Definitions.

*Administrative Law Judge* means an administrative law judge in the Authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


*Authority* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


*Benefit* means, in the context of “statement,” anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.


*Claim* means any request, demand, or submission—


(a) Made to the Authority for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);


(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the Authority or to a party to a contract with the Authority—


(1) For property or services if the United States—


(i) Provided such property or services;


(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or 


(iii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or


(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—


(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or


(ii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or


(c) Made to the Authority which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.


*Complaint* means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 27.7.


*Defendant* means any person alleged in a complaint under § 27.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 27.3.


*Environmental Appeals Board* means the Board within the Agency described in § 1.25 of this title.


*Government* means the United States Government.


*Hearing Clerk* means the Office of the Hearing Clerk (1900), United States Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.


*Individual* means a natural person.


*Initial decision* means the written decision of the presiding officer required by § 27.10 or § 27.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.


*Investigating official* means the Inspector General of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or an officer or employee of the Office of Inspector General designated by the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


*Knows or has reason to know* means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—


(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or


(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.


*Makes,* wherever it appears, shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires, *making* or *made* shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.


*Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization, and includes the plural of those terms.


*Presiding officer* means the administrative law judge designated by the Chief administrative law judge to serve as presiding officer.


*Representative* means an attorney who is a member in good standing of the bar of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or of the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or other representative who must conform to the standards of conduct and ethics required of practitioners before the courts of the United States.


*Reviewing official* means the General Counsel of the Authority or his designee who is—


(a) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official;


(b) Not employed in the organizational unit of the Authority in which the investigating official is employed; and


(c) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


*Statement* means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—


(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or


(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—


(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or


(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from,



---

[N] [53 FR 15182, Apr. 27, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 5326, Feb. 13, 1992]




