# ยง 743.6   Prior notifications to Congress of exports of certain semiautomatic firearms.

(a) *General requirement.* Applications to export semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507 will be notified to Congress as provided in this section before licenses for such items are issued, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Exports of semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507 to personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government under License Exception GOV (ยง 740.11(b) of the EAR) do not require such notification.


(2) Exports of semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507 for official use by an agency of NATO do not require such notification.




(b) *Notification criteria.* Unless excluded in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, BIS will notify Congress prior to issuing a license authorizing the export of items to Mexico, South Africa, or Turkey or any other country not listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) if the items are sold under a contract or are otherwise part of an export transaction that includes $4,000,000 or more of semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507.




(c) *License application information.* In addition to information required on the application, the exporter must include a copy of the signed contract or, if there is no contract, a written explanation from the applicant (including a statement of the value of the firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507 to be exported) for any proposed export described in paragraph (b) of this section. License applications for semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507 may include other nonautomatic firearms, shotguns, other 0x5zz items, or other items subject to the EAR, but the applicant must clearly identify the semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507. The applicant clearly distinguishing the semi-automatic firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A506 or 0A507 from any other items on the license application will assist BIS in assessing whether the license application requires congressional notification under this section and identifying the information that will need to be reported to Congress. Any activity intended to circumvent notification requirements is prohibited. Such devices include, but are not limited to, the splitting or structuring of contracts to avoid exceeding applicable notification dollar value limits described in paragraph (a) of this section.




(d) *Additional information.* For questions on this section, you may contact the Nuclear and Missile Technology Controls Division, Guns and Ammunition licensing group at *firearmsCN@bis.doc.gov*.



---

[N] [87 FR 32987, June 1, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34706, Apr. 30, 2024]




