# ยง 61.172   Standard for new and existing sources.

(a) The provisions of paragraphs (b)-(f) of this section do not apply to any copper converter at a facility where the total arsenic charging rate for the copper converter department averaged over a 1-year period is less than 75 kg/hr (165 lb/hr), as determined under ยง 61.174(f).


(b) The owner or operator of each copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall reduce inorganic arsenic emissions to the atmosphere by meeting the following design, equipment, work practice, and operational requirements:


(1) Install, operate, and maintain a secondary hood system on each copper converter. Each secondary hood system shall consist of a hood enclosure, air curtain fan(s), exhaust system fan(s), and ductwork that conveys the captured emissions to a control device, and shall meet the following specifications:


(i) The configuration and dimensions of the hood enclosure shall be such that the copper converter mouth, charging ladles, skimming ladles, and any other material transfer vessels used will be housed within the confines or influence of the hood enclosure during each mode of copper converter operation.


(ii) The back of the hood enclosure shall be fully enclosed and sealed against the primary hood. Portions of the side-walls in contact with the copper converter shall be sealed against the converter.


(iii) Openings in the top and front of the hood enclosure to allow for the entry and egress of ladles and crane appartus shall be minimized to the fullest extent practicable.


(iv) The hood enclosure shall be fabricated in such a manner and of materials of sufficient strength to withstand incidental contact with ladles and crane apparatus with no significant damage.


(v) One side-wall of the hood enclosure shall be equipped with a horizontal-slotted plenum along the top, and the opposite side-wall shall be equipped with an exhaust hood. The horizontal-slotted plenum shall be designed to allow the distance from the base to the top of the horizontal slot to be adjustable up to a dimension of 76 mm.


(vi) The horizontal-slotted plenum shall be connected to a fan. When activated, the fan shall push air through the horizontal slot, producing a horizontal air curtain above the copper converter that is directed to the exhaust hood. The fan power output installed shall be sufficient to overcome static pressure losses through the ductwork upstream of the horizontal-slotted plenum and across the plenum, and to deliver at least 22,370 watts (30 air horsepower) at the horizontal-slotted plenum discharge.


(vii) The exhaust hood shall be sized to completely intercept the airstream from the horizontal-slotted plenum combined with the additional airflow resulting from entrainment of the surrounding air. The exhaust hood shall be connected to a fan. When activated, the fan shall pull the combined airstream into the exhaust hood.


(viii) The entire secondary hood system shall be equipped with dampers and instrumentation, as appropriate, so that the desired air curtain and exhaust flow are maintained during each mode of copper converter operation.


(2) Optimize the capture of secondary inorganic arsenic emissions by operating the copper converter and secondary hood system at all times as follows:


(i) *Copper converter.* (A) Increase the air curtain and exhaust flow rates to their optimum conditions prior to raising the primary hood and rolling the copper converter out for charging, skimming, or pouring.


(B) Once rolled out, prior to the commencement of skimming or pouring, hold the copper converter in an idle position until fuming from the molten bath has been minimized.


(C) During skimming, raise the receiving ladle off the ground and position the ladle as close to the copper converter mouth as possible to minimize the drop distance between the converter mouth and the receiving ladle.


(D) Control the rate of flow into the receiving ladle to the extent practicable to minimize fuming.


(E) Upon the completion of each charge, withdraw the charging ladle or vessel used from the confines of the secondary hood in a slow, deliberate manner.


(F) During charging, skimming, or pouring, ensure that the crane block does not disturb the air flow between the horizontal-slotted plenum and the exhaust hood.


(ii) *Secondary hood system.* (A) Operate the secondary hood system under conditions that will result in the maximum capture of inorganic arsenic emissions.


(B) Within 30 days after the effective date of this subpart, or within 30 days after the initial operation of each secondary hood system, whichever comes later, provide to the Administrator a list of operating conditions for the secondary hood system that will result in the maximum capture of inorganic arsenic emissions. This list shall specify the operating parameters for the following:


(*1*) The dimensions of the horizontal slot.


(*2*) The velocity of air through the horizontal slot during each mode of converter operation.


(*3*) The distance from the horizontal slot to the exhaust hood.


(*4*) The face velocity at the opening of the exhaust hood during each mode of converter operation.


(C) Operate the secondary hood system under the conditions listed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.


(D) Notify the Administrator in writing within 30 days if there is any change in the operating conditions submitted pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) that will result in any reduction in the maximum capture of inorganic arsenic emissions.


(3) Comply with the following inspection and maintenance requirements after installing the secondary hood system required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:


(i) At least once every month, visually inspect the components of the secondary hood system that are exposed to potential damage from crane and ladle operation, including the hood enclosure, side- and back-wall hood seals, and the horizontal slot.


(ii) Replace or repair any defective or damaged components of the secondary hood system within 30 days after discovering the defective or damaged components.


(c) No owner or operator of a copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause or allow to be discharged into the atmosphere any copper converter secondary emissions that exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 11.6 mg/dscm (0.0051 gr/dscf).


(d) The owner or operator of a copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a description of a plan for control of inorganic arsenic emissions from the copper converter and associated air pollution control equipment. This plan shall be submitted within 90 days after the effective date of this subpart, unless a waiver of compliance is granted under ยง 61.11. If a waiver of compliance is granted, the plan shall be submitted on a date set by the Administrator. Approval of the plan will be granted by the Administrator provided he finds that:


(1) It includes a systematic procedure for identifying malfunctions and for reporting them immediately to smelter supervisory personnel.


(2) It specifies the procedures that will be followed to ensure that equipment or process breakdowns due entirely or in part to poor maintenance or other preventable conditions do not occur.


(3) It specifies the measures that will be taken to ensure compliance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(e) The owner or operator shall implement the plan required under paragraph (d) of this section unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.


(f) At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the owner or operator of a copper converter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall operate and maintain the converter and associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions of inorganic arsenic to the atmosphere to the maximum extent practicable. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operating and maintenance procedures, inspection of the source, and review of other records.



---

[N] [51 FR 28029, Aug. 4, 1986, as amended at 65 FR 62158, Oct. 17, 2000]




