# ยง 90.137   Applications for operation at temporary locations.

(a) An application for authority to operate a base or a fixed transmitter at temporary locations shall be filed in accordance with ยง 1.931 of this chapter and the following:


(1) When one or more individual transmitters are to be operated by a licensee as a base station or as a fixed station at unspecified or temporary locations for indeterminate periods, such transmitters may be considered to comprise a single station intended to be operated at temporary locations.


(2) The application must specify the general geographic area within which the operation will be confined. The area may be specified as a city, a county or counties, a state or states or other definable geographic area such as a specified radius around a particular city or known geographic site.


(3) Applications for operation at temporary locations exceeding 180 days must be accompanied by evidence of frequency coordination, except that applications for operation at temporary locations exceeding 180 days by applicants using 220-222 MHz spectrum for geophysical telemetry operations need not be accompanied by evidence of frequency coordination. 


(b) When any unit or units of a base station or fixed station which are authorized for operation at temporary locations actually remain or are intended to remain at the same location for more than 1 year, an application for a separate authorization specifying the fixed location shall be made as soon as possible, but not later than 30 days after the expiration of the 1-year period.


(c) The provisions of this section do not apply to the 4940-4990 MHz band.



---

[N] [43 FR 54791, Nov. 22, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 63862, Sept. 26, 1980; 51 FR 14997, Apr. 22, 1986; 58 FR 44956, Aug. 25, 1993; 62 FR 15992, Apr. 3, 1997; 63 FR 68963, Dec. 14, 1998; 68 FR 38639, June 30, 2003]




