# § 351.2   Terms defined.

When used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: 


(a) *Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture. 


(b) *Program* means the Meat and Poultry Inspection Program of the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department. 


(c) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in his stead. 


(d) *Circuit supervisor* means an employee of the Program assigned to supervise and perform official work in a circuit. Such employee is assigned by and reports directly to the Administrator or person designated by him. 


(e) *Inspector* means an employee of the Program or a cooperating State. 


(f) *Circuit* means one or more inspected plants assigned to a circuit supervisor. 


(g) *Recognized State* means any State not designated in § 331.2 of this chapter. 


(h) *Cooperating State* means any State cooperating under § 351.7 in administration of the regulations in this part. 


(i) *Inspection* means ante-mortem and post-mortem inspection by Program inspectors or inspectors of a Meat Inspection Service of a recognized State. 


(j) *Animals* means cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules and other equines. 


(k) *Technical animal fat* means animal fat eligible for exportation, or storage for exportation, in accordance with § 325.11 of this chapter. 


(l) *Certified technical animal fat* means technical animal fat certified for export or storage for export under the regulations in this part. 


(m) *Tallow* means technical animal fat with a minimum titre of 40 °C. 


(n) *Certified plant* means any plant or storage facility preparing or storing certified technical animal fat for export, or for transfer to another certified plant or storage facility for ultimate export, and at which certification service is provided under the regulations in this part. 


(o) *Inspected and Passed* means inspected and passed under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) or the meat inspection laws of a recognized State. 




