# § 173.50   Class 1—Definitions.

(a) *Explosive.* For the purposes of this subchapter, an *explosive* means any substance or article, including a device, which is designed to function by explosion (*i.e.,* an extremely rapid release of gas and heat) or which, by chemical reaction within itself, is able to function in a similar manner even if not designed to function by explosion, unless the substance or article is otherwise classed under the provisions of this subchapter. The term includes a pyrotechnic substance or article, unless the substance or article is otherwise classed under the provisions of this subchapter. 


(b) Explosives in Class 1 are divided into six divisions as follows:


(1) *Division 1.1* consists of explosives that have a mass explosion hazard. A mass explosion is one which affects almost the entire load instantaneously.


(2) *Division 1.2* consists of explosives that have a projection hazard but not a mass explosion hazard.


(3) *Division 1.3* consists of explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard or both, but not a mass explosion hazard.


(4) *Division 1.4* consists of explosives that present a minor explosion hazard. The explosive effects are largely confined to the package and no projection of fragments of appreciable size or range is to be expected. An external fire must not cause virtually instantaneous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package.


(5) *Division 1.5*1 consists of very insensitive explosives. This division is comprised of substances which have a mass explosion hazard but are so insensitive that there is very little probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions of transport.


(6) *Division 1.6*2 consists of extremely insensitive articles that do not have a mass explosion hazard. This division is comprised of articles which predominately contain extremely insensitive substances and that demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propagation.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52617 Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66267, Dec. 20, 1991; 66 FR 45183, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 48569, Aug. 14, 2003; 78 FR 1074, Jan. 7, 2013; 82 FR 15876, Mar. 30, 2017]




