# § 205.2   Definitions.

(a) As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act. 


(1) *Act* means the Noise Control Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-574, 86 Stat. 1234). 


(2) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency or his authorized representative. 


(3) *Agency* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 


(4) *Export exemption* means an exemption from the prohibitions of section 10(a) (1), (2), (3), and (4) of the Act, granted by statute under section 10(b)(2) of the Act for the purpose of exporting regulated products. 


(5) *National security exemption* means an exemption from the prohibitions of section 10(a) (1), (2), (3), and (5) of the Act, which may be granted under section 10(b)(1) of the Act for the purpose of national security. 


(6) [Reserved]


(7) *Sound Level* means 20 times the logarithm to base 10 of the ratio of pressure of a sound to the reference pressure. The reference pressure is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter). NOTE: Unless otherwise explicitly stated, it is to be understood that the sound pressure is the effective (rms) sound pressure, per American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. 


(8) *Sound Pressure Level* means in decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of a sound pressure to the reference sound pressure of 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter). In the absence of any modifier, the level is understood to be that of a root-mean-square pressure. The unit of any sound level is the decibel, having the unit symbol dB. 


(9) *dB(A)* means the standard abbreviation for A-weighted sound levels in decibels. 


(10) *Highway* means the streets, roads, and public ways in any State. 


(11) *Fast Meter Response* means that the fast dynamic response of the sound level meter shall be used. The fast dynamic response shall comply with the meter dynamic characteristics in paragraph 5.3 of the American National Standard Specification for Sound Level Meters, ANSI SI.4-1971. This publication is available from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. 


(12) *Person* means an individual, corporation, partnership, or association, and except as provided in sections 11(e) and 12(a) of the Act includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the United States, a State or any political subdivision of a State. 


(13) *Reasonable assistance* means providing timely and unobstructed access to test products or products and records required by this part, and opportunity for copying such records or testing such test products. 


(14) *Ultimate purchaser* means the first person who in good faith purchases a product for purposes other than resale. 


(15) *New product* means (i) a product the equitable or legal title of which has never been transferred to an ultimate purchaser, or (ii) a product which is imported or offered for importation into the United States and which is manufactured after the effective date of a regulation under section 6 or 8 which would have been applicable to such product had it been manufactured in the United States. 


(16) *Manufacturer* means any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of new products, or the importing of new products for resale, or who acts for and is controlled by any such person in connection with the distribution of such products. 


(17) *Commerce* means trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation: 


(i) Between a place in a State and any place outside thereof, or 


(ii) Which affects trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation described in paragraph (a)(17)(i) of this section. 


(18) *Distribute in commerce* means sell in, offer for sale in, or introduce or deliver for introduction into, commerce. 


(19) *State* includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. 


(20) *Federal Agency* means an executive agency (as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code) and includes the United States Postal Service. 


(21) *Environmental noise* means the intensity, duration, and the character of sounds from all sources. 


(22) *Warranty* means the warranty required by section 6(c)(1) of the Act. 


(23) *Tampering* means those acts prohibited by section 10(a)(2) of the Act. 


(24) *Maintenance instructions* or *instructions* means those instructions for maintenance, use, and repair, which the Administrator is authorized to require pursuant to section 6(c)(1) of the Act. 


(25) *Type I Sound Level Meter* means a sound level meter which meets the Type I requirements of ANSI SI.4-1972 specification for sound level meters. This publication is available from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. 


(26) *Testing exemption* means an exemption from the prohibitions of section 10(a) (1), (2), (3), and (5) of the Act, which may be granted under section 10(b)(1) of the Act for the purpose of research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, or training, but not including national security. 


(27) *Product* means any transportation equipment for which regulations have been promulgated under this part and includes “test product.” 


(28) *Test product* means any product that is required to be tested pursuant to this part.



---

[N] [41 FR 15544, Apr. 13, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 61457, Dec. 5, 1977]




