# ยง 421.100   Intermediary functions.

An agreement between CMS and an intermediary specifies the functions to be performed by the intermediary.


(a) *Mandatory functions.* The contract must include the following functions:


(1) Determining the amount of payments to be made to providers for covered services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries.


(2) Making the payments.


(b) *Additional functions.* The contract may include any or all of the following functions:


(1) Any or all of the program integrity functions described in ยง 421.304, provided the intermediary is continuing those functions under an agreement entered into under section 1816 of the Act that was in effect on August 21, 1996, and they do not duplicate work being performed under a Medicare integrity program contract.


(2) Undertaking to adjust incorrect payments and recover overpayments when it is determined that an overpayment was made.


(3) Furnishing to CMS timely information and reports that CMS requests in order to carry out its responsibilities in the administration of the Medicare program.


(4) Establishing and maintaining procedures as approved by CMS for the redetermination of payment determinations.


(5) Maintaining records and making available to CMS the records necessary for verification of payments and for other related purposes.


(6) Upon inquiry, assisting individuals for matters pertaining to an intermediary agreement.


(7) Serving as a channel of communication to and from CMS of information, instructions, and other material as necessary for the effective and efficient performance of an intermediary agreement.


(8) Undertaking other functions as mutually agreed to by CMS and the intermediary.


(c) *Dual intermediary responsibilities.* Regarding the responsibility for service to provider-based HHAs and provider-based hospices, where the HHA or the hospice and its parent provider will be served by different intermediaries, the designated regional intermediary will process bills, make coverage determinations, and make payments to the HHAs and the hospices. The intermediary or Medicare integrity program contractor serving the parent provider will perform all fiscal functions, including audits and settlement of the Medicare cost reports and the HHA and hospice supplement worksheets.



---

[N] [72 FR 48886, Aug. 24, 2007]




