# ยง 578.33   Renewals.

(a) *In general.* Awards made under this part and title IV of the Act, as in effect before August 30, 2012 (the Supportive Housing Program and the Shelter Plus Care program), may be renewed to continue ongoing leasing, operations, supportive services, rental assistance, HMIS, and administration beyond the initial funding period. To be considered for funding, recipients must submit a request in a form specified by HUD, must meet the requirements of this part, and must submit the request within the time frame established by HUD.


(b) *Length of renewal.* HUD may award up to 3 years of funds for supportive services, leasing, HMIS, and operating costs. Renewals of tenant-based and sponsor-based rental assistance may be for up to one year of rental assistance. Renewals of project-based rental assistance may be for up to 15 years of rental assistance, subject to availability of annual appropriations.


(c) *Assistance available.* (1) Assistance during each year of a renewal period may be for:


(i) Up to 100 percent of the amount for supportive services and HMIS costs in the final year of the prior funding period;


(ii) Up to 100 percent of the amount for leasing and operating in the final year of the prior funding period adjusted in proportion to changes in the FMR for the geographic area; and


(iii) For rental assistance, up to 100 percent of the result of multiplying the number and unit size(s) in the grant agreement by the number of months in the renewal grant term and the applicable FMR.


(d) *Review criteria.* (1) Awards made under title IV of the Act, as in effect before August 30, 2012 are eligible for renewal in the Continuum of Care program even if the awardees would not be eligible for a new grant under the program, so long as they continue to serve the same population and the same number of persons or units in the same type of housing as identified in their most recently amended grant agreement signed before August 30, 2012. Grants will be renewed if HUD receives a certification from the Continuum that there is a demonstrated need for the project, and HUD finds that the project complied with program requirements applicable before August 30, 2012. For purposes of meeting the requirements of this part, a project will continue to be administered in accordance with 24 CFR 582.330, if the project received funding under the Shelter Plus Care program, or 24 CFR 583.325, if the project received funding under the Supportive Housing Program.


(2) *Renewal of awards made after August 30, 2012.* Review criteria for competitively awarded renewals made after August 30, 2012 will be described in the NOFA.


(e) *Unsuccessful projects.* HUD may renew a project that was eligible for renewal in the competition and was part of an application that was not funded despite having been submitted on time, in the manner required by HUD, and containing the information required by HUD, upon a finding that the project meets the purposes of the Continuum of Care program. The renewal will not exceed more than one year and will be under such conditions as HUD deems appropriate.


(f) *Annual Performance Report condition.* HUD may terminate the renewal of any grant and require the recipient to repay the renewal grant if:


(1) The recipient fails to timely submit a HUD Annual Performance Report (APR) for the grant year immediately prior to renewal; or


(2) The recipient submits an APR that HUD deems unacceptable or shows noncompliance with the requirements of the grant and this part.




