# § 63.2485   What requirements must I meet for wastewater streams and liquid streams in open systems within an MCPU?

(a) *General.* You must meet each requirement in Table 7 to this subpart that applies to your wastewater streams and liquid streams in open systems within an MCPU, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (q) of this section.


(b) *Wastewater HAP.* Where § 63.105 and §§ 63.132 through 63.148 refer to compounds in table 9 of subpart G of this part 63, the compounds in tables 8 and 9 to this subpart apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(c) *Group 1 wastewater.* Section 63.132(c)(1) (i) and (ii) do not apply. For the purposes of this subpart, a process wastewater stream is Group 1 for compounds in tables 8 and 9 to this subpart if any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (3) of this section are met. 


(1) The total annual average concentration of compounds in table 8 to this subpart is greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmw at any flowrate, and the total annual load of compounds in table 8 to this subpart is greater than or equal to 200 lb/yr.


(2) The total annual average concentration of compounds in table 8 to this subpart is greater than or equal to 1,000 ppmw, and the annual average flowrate is greater than or equal to 1 l/min.


(3) The combined total annual average concentration of compounds in tables 8 and 9 to this subpart is greater than or equal to 30,000 ppmw, and the combined total annual load of compounds in tables 8 and 9 to this subpart is greater than or equal to 1 tpy.


(d) *Wastewater tank requirements.* (1) When §§ 63.133 and 63.147 reference floating roof requirements in §§ 63.119 and 63.120, the corresponding requirements in subpart WW of this part 63 may be applied for the purposes of this subpart. 


(2) When § 63.133(a) refers to table 10 of subpart G of this part 63, the maximum true vapor pressure in the table shall be limited to the HAP listed in tables 8 and 9 of this subpart FFFF.


(3) For the purposes of this subpart, the requirements of § 63.133(a)(2) are satisfied by operating and maintaining a fixed roof if you demonstrate that the total soluble and partially soluble HAP emissions from the wastewater tank are no more than 5 percent higher than the emissions would be if the contents of the wastewater tank were not heated, treated by an exothermic reaction, or sparged. 


(4) The emission limits specified in §§ 63.133(b)(2) and 63.139 for control devices used to control emissions from wastewater tanks do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device(s) of no more than 240 hr/yr. You may request an extension to a total of 360 hr/yr in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.2470(d). 


(e) *Individual drain systems.* The provisions of § 63.136(e)(3) apply except as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 


(1) A sewer line connected to drains that are in compliance with § 63.136(e)(1) may be vented to the atmosphere, provided that the sewer line entrance to the first downstream junction box is water sealed and the sewer line vent pipe is designed as specified in § 63.136(e)(2)(ii)(A). 


(2) [Reserved] 


(f) *Closed-vent system requirements.* Except as specified in § 63.2450(e)(6), when § 63.148(k) refers to closed vent systems that are subject to the requirements of §  63.172, the requirements of either §  63.172 or § 63.1034 apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(g) *Halogenated vent stream requirements.* For each halogenated vent stream from a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream that is vented through a closed-vent system to a combustion device to reduce organic HAP emissions, you must meet the same emission limits as specified for batch process vents in item 2 of table 2 to this subpart. 


(h) *Alternative test methods.* (1) As an alternative to the test methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i), you may use Method 8260 or 8270 as specified in § 63.1257(b)(10)(iii). 


(2) As an alternative to using the methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i), you may conduct wastewater analyses using Method 1666 or 1671 of 40 CFR part 136 and comply with the sampling protocol requirements specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The validation requirements specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(iii) do not apply if you use Method 1666 or 1671 of 40 CFR part 136. 


(3) As an alternative to using Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, as specified in §§ 63.139(c)(1)(ii) and 63.145(i)(2), you may elect to use Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60 as specified in § 63.997. 


(4) As an alternative to using EPA Method 624 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A, as specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i)(C), you may use ASTM D5790-95 (Reapproved 2012) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for the analysis of total organic HAP in wastewater samples. If you choose to use ASTM D5790-95 (Reapproved 2012), then you must also use the sampling procedures of EPA Method 25D 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, or an equivalent method.


(i) *Offsite management and treatment option.* (1) If you ship wastewater to an offsite treatment facility that meets the requirements of § 63.138(h), you may elect to document in your notification of compliance status report that the wastewater will be treated as hazardous waste at a facility that meets the requirements of § 63.138(h) as an alternative to having the offsite facility submit the certification specified in § 63.132(g)(2). 


(2) As an alternative to the management and treatment options specified in § 63.132(g)(2), any affected wastewater stream (or residual removed from an affected wastewater stream) with a total annual average concentration of compounds in Table 8 to this subpart less than 50 ppmw may be transferred offsite in accordance with paragraphs (i)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) The transferee (or you) must demonstrate that less than 5 percent of the HAP in Table 9 to this subpart is emitted from the waste management units up to the activated sludge unit. 


(ii) The transferee must treat the wastewater stream or residual in a biological treatment unit in accordance with the requirement in paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section and the requirements of §§ 63.138 and 63.145 and the requirements referenced therein.


(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the requirement of § 63.145(a)(3) no longer applies. Instead, the transferee must comply with the conditions specified in § 63.2450(g)(6).


(j) You must determine the annual average concentration and annual average flowrate for wastewater streams for each MCPU. The procedures for flexible operation units specified in § 63.144 (b) and (c) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(k) *Outlet concentration correction for supplemental gases.* The requirement to correct outlet concentrations from combustion devices to 3-percent oxygen in §§ 63.139(c)(1)(ii) and 63.145(i)(6) applies only if supplemental gases are combined with a vent stream from a Group 1 wastewater stream. If emissions are controlled with a vapor recovery system as specified in § 63.139(c)(2), you must correct for supplemental gases as specified in § 63.2460(c)(6).


(l) *Requirements for liquid streams in open systems.* (1) References in § 63.149 to § 63.100(b) mean § 63.2435(b) for the purposes of this subpart. 


(2) When § 63.149(e) refers to 40 CFR 63.100(l) (1) or (2), § 63.2445(a) applies for the purposes of this subpart. 


(3) When § 63.149 uses the term “chemical manufacturing process unit,” the term “MCPU” applies for the purposes of this subpart. 


(4) When § 63.149(e)(1) refers to characteristics of water that contain compounds in Table 9 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the characteristics specified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (3) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(5) When § 63.149(e)(2) refers to characteristics of water that contain compounds in Table 9 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the characteristics specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(m) When § 63.132(f) refers to “a concentration of greater than 10,000 ppmw of table 9 compounds,” the phrase “a concentration of greater than 30,000 ppmw of total partially soluble HAP (PSHAP) and soluble HAP (SHAP) or greater than 10,000 ppmw of PSHAP” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(n) *Alternative requirements for wastewater that is Group 1 for soluble HAP only.* The option specified in this paragraph (n) applies to wastewater that is Group 1 for soluble HAP in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section and is discharged to biological treatment. Except as provided in paragraph (n)(4) of this section, this option does not apply to wastewater that is Group 1 for partially soluble HAP in accordance with paragraph (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(4) of this section. For wastewater that is Group 1 for SHAP, you need not comply with §§ 63.133 through 63.137 for any equalization unit, neutralization unit, and/or clarifier prior to the activated sludge unit, and you need not comply with the venting requirements in § 63.136(e)(2)(ii)(A) for lift stations with a volume larger than 10,000 gal, provided you comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section and all otherwise applicable requirements specified in table 7 to this subpart. For this option, the treatment requirements in § 63.138 and the performance testing requirements in § 63.145 do not apply to the biological treatment unit, except as specified in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(1) Wastewater must be hard-piped between the equalization unit, clarifier, and activated sludge unit. This requirement does not apply to the transfer between any of these types of units that are part of the same structure and one unit overflows into the next.


(2) Calculate the destruction efficiency of the biological treatment unit using Equation 1 to this paragraph (n)(2) in accordance with the procedures described in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section. You have demonstrated initial compliance if E is greater than or equal to 90 percent.


(i) Include all PSHAP and SHAP compounds in both Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams from all MCPU, except you may exclude any compounds that meet the criteria specified in § 63.145(a)(6)(ii) or (iii).


(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (n)(2)(vii) of this section, conduct the demonstration under representative process unit and treatment unit operating conditions in accordance with §  63.145(a)(3) and (4).


(iii) Determine PSHAP and SHAP concentrations and the total wastewater flow rate at the inlet to the equalization unit in accordance with § 63.145(f)(1) and (2). References in § 63.145(f)(1) and (2) to required mass removal and actual mass removal do not apply for the purposes of this section.


(iv) Determine F_bio_ for the activated sludge unit as specified in § 63.145(h), except as specified in paragraph (n)(2)(iv)(A) or paragraph (n)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.


(A) If the biological treatment process meets both of the requirements specified in § 63.145(h)(1)(i) and (ii), you may elect to replace the F_bio_ term in Equation 1 to paragraph (n)(2) of this section with the numeral “1.”


(B) You may elect to assume f_bio_ is zero for any compounds on List 2 of table 36 in subpart G.


(v) Determine QMG_e_, QMG_n_, and QMG_c_ using EPA's WATER9 model or the most recent update to this model, and conduct testing or use other procedures to validate the modeling results.


(vi) Submit the data and results of your demonstration, including both a description of and the results of your WATER9 modeling validation procedures, in your notification of compliance status report as specified in § 63.2520(d)(2)(ii).


(vii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the requirement of § 63.145(a)(3) no longer applies. Instead, you must comply with the conditions specified in § 63.2450(g)(6).


(3) As an alternative to the venting requirements in § 63.136(e)(2)(ii)(A), a lift station with a volume larger than 10,000 gal may have openings necessary for proper venting of the lift station. The size and other design characteristics of these openings may be established based on manufacturer recommendations or engineering judgment for venting under normal operating conditions. You must describe the design of such openings and your supporting calculations and other rationale in your notification of compliance status report.


(4) For any wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both PSHAP and SHAP, you may elect to meet the requirements specified in Table 7 to this subpart for the PSHAP and then comply with paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section for the SHAP in the wastewater system. You may determine the SHAP mass removal rate, in kg/hr, in treatment units that are used to meet the requirements for PSHAP and add this amount to both the numerator and denominator in Equation 1 to paragraph (n)(2) of this section.


(o) *Compliance records.* Except as specified in paragraph (p) of this section, for each CPMS used to monitor a nonflare control device for wastewater emissions, you must keep records as specified in § 63.998(c)(1) in addition to the records required in § 63.147(d).


(p) *Compliance records after date of compliance.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (o) of this section no longer applies. Instead, for each CPMS used to monitor a nonflare control device for wastewater emissions, you must keep records as specified in § 63.998(c)(1) in addition to the records required in § 63.147(d), except that the provisions of § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D), (E), (F), and (G) do not apply.


(q) *Startup, shutdown, and malfunction referenced provisions.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (q)(1) through (5) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this section.


(1) Section 63.105(d) of subpart F and the phrase “as part of the start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan required under § 63.6(e)(3) of subpart A of this part” from § 63.105(e) of subpart F.


(2) Section 63.132(b)(3)(i)(B) of subpart G.


(3) The phrase “or startup/shutdown/malfunction” in § 63.132(f)(2) of subpart G.


(4) Section 63.148(f)(3) of subpart G.


(5) For flares complying with § 63.2450(e)(5), the following provisions do not apply:


(i) Section 63.139(c)(3) of subpart G;


(ii) Section 63.139(d)(3) of subpart G;


(iii) Section 63.145(j) of subpart G;


(iv) Section 63.146(b)(7)(i) of subpart G; and


(v) Section 63.147(d)(1) of subpart G.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38559, July 1, 2005; 71 FR 40335, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49144, Aug. 12, 2020]




