# § 1.170A-15   Substantiation requirements for charitable contribution of a cash, check, or other monetary gift.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Bank record or written communication required.* No deduction is allowed under sections 170(a) and 170(f)(17) for a charitable contribution in the form of a cash, check, or other monetary gift, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless the donor substantiates the deduction with a bank record, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a written communication, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, from the donee showing the name of the donee, the date of the contribution, and the amount of the contribution.


(2) *Additional substantiation required for contributions of $250 or more.* No deduction is allowed under section 170(a) for any contribution of $250 or more unless the donor substantiates the contribution with a contemporaneous written acknowledgment, as described in section 170(f)(8) and § 1.170A-13(f), from the donee.


(3) *Single document may be used.* The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section may be met by a single document that contains all the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, if the document is obtained by the donor no later than the date prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Terms*—(1) *Monetary gift* includes a transfer of a gift card redeemable for cash, and a payment made by credit card, electronic fund transfer (as described in section 5061(e)(2)), an online payment service, or payroll deduction.


(2) *Bank record* includes a statement from a financial institution, an electronic fund transfer receipt, a canceled check, a scanned image of both sides of a canceled check obtained from a bank website, or a credit card statement.


(3) *Written communication* includes email.


(c) *Deadline for receipt of substantiation.* The substantiation described in paragraph (a) of this section must be received by the donor on or before the earlier of—


(1) The date the donor files the original return for the taxable year in which the contribution was made; or


(2) The due date, including any extension, for filing the donor's original return for that year.


(d) *Special rules*—(1) *Contributions made by payroll deduction.* In the case of a charitable contribution made by payroll deduction, a donor is treated as meeting the requirements of section 170(f)(17) and paragraph (a) of this section if, no later than the date described in paragraph (c) of this section, the donor obtains—


(i) A pay stub, Form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement,” or other employer-furnished document that sets forth the amount withheld during the taxable year for payment to a donee; and


(ii) A pledge card or other document prepared by or at the direction of the donee that shows the name of the donee.


(2) *Distributing organizations as donees.* The following organizations are treated as donees for purposes of section 170(f)(17) and paragraph (a) of this section, even if the organization (pursuant to the donor's instructions or otherwise) distributes the amount received to one or more organizations described in section 170(c):


(i) An organization described in section 170(c).


(ii) An organization described in 5 CFR 950.105 (a Principal Combined Fund Organization (PCFO) for purposes of the Combined Federal Campaign (CFC)) and acting in that capacity. For purposes of the requirement for a written communication under section 170(f)(17), if the donee is a PCFO, the name of the local CFC campaign may be treated as the name of the donee organization.


(e) *Substantiation of out-of-pocket expenses.* Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a donor who incurs unreimbursed expenses of less than $250 incident to the rendition of services, within the meaning of § 1.170A-1(g). For substantiation of unreimbursed out-of-pocket expenses of $250 or more, see § 1.170A-13(f)(10).


(f) *Charitable contributions made by partnership or S corporation.* If a partnership or an S corporation makes a charitable contribution, the partnership or S corporation is treated as the donor for purposes of section 170(f)(17) and paragraph (a) of this section.


(g) *Transfers to certain trusts.* The requirements of section 170(f)(17) and paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section do not apply to a transfer of a cash, check, or other monetary gift to a trust described in section 170(f)(2)(B); a charitable remainder annuity trust, as described in section 664(d)(1) and the corresponding regulations; or a charitable remainder unitrust, as described in section 664(d)(2) or (d)(3) and the corresponding regulations. The requirements of section 170(f)(17) and paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do apply, however, to a transfer to a pooled income fund, as defined in section 642(c)(5).


(h) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to contributions made after July 30, 2018. Taxpayers may rely on the rules of this section for contributions made in taxable years beginning after August 17, 2006.



---

[N] [T.D. 9836, 83 FR 36422, July 30, 2018]




