# § 570.507   Reports.

(a) *Performance and evaluation report*—(1) *Entitlement grant recipients and HUD-administered small cities recipients in Hawaii.* The annual performance and evaluation report shall be submitted in accordance with 24 CFR part 91. 


(2) *HUD-administered Small Cities recipients in New York, and Hawaii recipients for pre-FY 1995 grants*—(i) *Content.* Each performance and evaluation report must contain completed copies of all forms and narratives prescribed by HUD, including a summary of the citizen comments received on the report. 


(ii) *Timing.* The performance and evaluation report on each grant shall be submitted: 


(A) No later than October 31 for all grants executed before April 1 of the same calendar year. The first report should cover the period from the execution of the grant until September 30. Reports on grants made after March 31 of a calendar year will be due October 31 of the following calendar year, and the reports will cover the period of time from the execution of the grant until September 30 of the calendar year following grant execution. After the initial submission, the performance and evaluation report will be submitted annually on October 31 until completion of the activities funded under the grant; 


(B) Hawaii grantees will submit their small cities performance and evaluation report for each pre-FY 1995 grant no later than 90 days after the completion of their most recent program year. After the initial submission, the performance and evaluation report will be submitted annually until completion of the activities funded under the grant; and 


(C) No later than 90 days after the criteria for grant closeout, as described in § 570.509(a), have been met. 


(iii) *Citizen comments on the report.* Each recipient shall make copies of the performance and evaluation report available to its citizens in sufficient time to permit the citizens to comment on the report before its submission to HUD. Each recipient may determine the specific manner and times the report will be made available to citizens consistent with the preceding sentence. 


(b) *Equal employment opportunity reports.* Recipients of entitlement grants or HUD-administered small cities grants shall submit to HUD each year a report (HUD/EEO-4) on recipient employment containing data as of June 30. 


(c) *Minority business enterprise reports.* Recipients of entitlement grants, HUD-administered small cities grants or Urban Development Action Grants shall submit to HUD, by April 30, a report on contracts and subcontract activity during the first half of the fiscal year and by October 31 a report on such activity during the second half of the year. 


(d) *Other reports.* Recipients may be required to submit such other reports and information as HUD determines are necessary to carry out its responsibilities under the Act or other applicable laws.



---

[N] [53 FR 34456, Sept. 6, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 1916, Jan. 5, 1995; 61 FR 32269, June 21, 1996]




