# § 1.475(c)-2   Definitions—security.

(a) *Items that are not securities.* The following items are not securities within the meaning of section 475(c)(2) with respect to a taxpayer and, therefore, are not subject to section 475—


(1) A security (determined without regard to this paragraph (a)) if section 1032 prevents the taxpayer from recognizing gain or loss with respect to that security;


(2) A debt instrument issued by the taxpayer (including a synthetic debt instrument, within the meaning of § 1.1275-6(b)(4), that § 1.1275-6(b) treats the taxpayer as having issued); or


(3) A REMIC residual interest, or an interest or arrangement that is determined by the Commissioner to have substantially the same economic effect, if the residual interest or the interest or arrangement is acquired on or after January 4, 1995.


(b) *Synthetic debt that § 1.1275-6(b) treats the taxpayer as holding.* If § 1.1275-6 treats a taxpayer as the holder of a synthetic debt instrument (within the meaning of § 1.1275-6(b)(4)), the synthetic debt instrument is a security held by the taxpayer within the meaning of section 475(c)(2)(C).


(c) *Negative value REMIC residuals acquired before January 4, 1995.* A REMIC residual interest that is described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or an interest or arrangement that is determined by the Commissioner to have substantially the same economic effect is not a security within the meaning of section 475(c)(2).


(1) *Description.* A residual interest in a REMIC is described in this paragraph (c)(1) if, on the date the taxpayer acquires the residual interest, the present value of the anticipated tax liabilities associated with holding the interest exceeds the sum of—


(i) The present value of the expected future distributions on the interest; and


(ii) The present value of the anticipated tax savings associated with holding the interest as the REMIC generates losses.


(2) *Special rules applicable to negative value REMIC residuals acquired before January 4, 1995.* Solely for purposes of this paragraph (c)—


(i) If a transferee taxpayer acquires a residual interest with a basis determined by reference to the transferor's basis, then the transferee is deemed to acquire the interest on the date the transferor acquired it (or is deemed to acquire it under this paragraph (c)(2)(i)). 


(ii) Anticipated tax liabilities, expected future distributions, and anticipated tax savings are determined under the rules in § 1.860E-2(a)(3) and without regard to the operation of section 475. 


(iii) Present values are determined under the rules in § 1.860E-2(a)(4). 



---

[N] [T.D. 8700, 61 FR 67725, Dec. 24, 1996]




