# ยง 165.97   States with existing containment programs.

(a) *What options are available to States that already have containment regulations?* States that have promulgated containment regulations effective prior to August 16, 2006, and which also have primary enforcement responsibility and/or certification programs, have the option of continuing to implement their own programs in lieu of these Federal regulations.


(b) *How may a State request authority to continue implementing its State containment regulations?* A State with pesticide containment regulations may request the authority to continue implementing State containment regulations by August 16, 2007 in the following manner:


(1) The State must submit a letter and any supporting documentation to EPA. Supporting documentation must demonstrate that the State's program is providing environmental protection equivalent to or more protective than that expected to be provided by the Federal regulations in this subpart.


(2) The State must identify any significant changes to State regulations which would be necessary in order to provide environmental protection equivalent to the EPA regulations, and develop an estimated timetable to effect these changes. The letter must be signed by the designated State Lead Agency.


(c) *How will EPA notify the State if its request is granted?* EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs will review the State's correspondence and determine whether the State program is adequate to provide environmental protection equivalent to or more protective than these Federal regulations for new and existing containment structures. EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs will inform the State of its determination through a letter authorizing or declining to authorize the State to continue implementing its containment regulations and will detail any reasons for declining authorization.


(d) *How must a State inform EPA of revisions to its containment regulations?* Any state that has received authorization to continue implementing its state containment regulations must inform EPA by letter signed by the designated State Lead Agency within 6 months of any revision to the State's containment regulations. EPA will inform the state by letter if it determines that the State's containment regulations are no longer adequate based on the revisions. The State's containment regulations will remain in effect, unless and until EPA sends the state a letter making this determination.



---

[N] [71 FR 47422, Aug. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 64228, Oct. 29, 2008]




