# § 1.162-32   Expenses paid or incurred for lodging when not traveling away from home.

(a) *In general.* Expenses paid or incurred for lodging of an individual who is not traveling away from home (local lodging) generally are personal, living, or family expenses that are nondeductible by the individual under section 262(a). Under certain circumstances, however, local lodging expenses may be deductible under section 162(a) as ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred in connection with carrying on a taxpayer's trade or business, including a trade or business as an employee. Whether local lodging expenses are paid or incurred in carrying on a taxpayer's trade or business is determined under all the facts and circumstances. One factor is whether the taxpayer incurs an expense because of a bona fide condition or requirement of employment imposed by the taxpayer's employer. Expenses paid or incurred for local lodging that is lavish or extravagant under the circumstances or that primarily provides an individual with a social or personal benefit are not incurred in carrying on a taxpayer's trade or business.


(b) *Safe harbor for local lodging at business meetings and conferences.* An individual's local lodging expenses will be treated as ordinary and necessary business expenses if—


(1) The lodging is necessary for the individual to participate fully in or be available for a bona fide business meeting, conference, training activity, or other business function;


(2) The lodging is for a period that does not exceed five calendar days and does not recur more frequently than once per calendar quarter;


(3) If the individual is an employee, the employee's employer requires the employee to remain at the activity or function overnight; and


(4) The lodging is not lavish or extravagant under the circumstances and does not provide any significant element of personal pleasure, recreation, or benefit.


(c) *Examples.* The provisions of the facts and circumstances test of paragraph (a) of this section are illustrated by the following examples. In each example the employer and the employees meet all other requirements (such as substantiation) for deductibility of the expense and for exclusion from income of the value of the lodging as a working condition fringe or of reimbursements under an accountable plan.


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to expenses paid or incurred on or after October 1, 2014. However, taxpayers may apply these regulations to local lodging expenses that are paid or incurred in taxable years for which the period of limitation on credit or refund under section 6511 has not expired.



---

[N] [T.D. 9696, 79 FR 59113, Oct. 1, 2014]




