# ยง 92.60   Allocation amounts for insular areas.

(a) *Initial allocation amount for each insular area.* The initial allocation amount for each insular area is determined based upon the insular area's population and occupied rental units compared to all insular areas. 


(b) *Threshold requirements.* The HUD Field Office shall review each insular area's progress on outstanding allocations made under this section, based on the insular area's performance report, the timeliness of close-outs, and compliance with fund management requirements and regulations, taking into consideration the size of the allocation and the degree and complexity of the program. If HUD determines from this review that the insular area does not have the capacity to administer effectively a new allocation, or a portion of a new allocation, in addition to allocations currently under administration, HUD may reduce the insular area's initial allocation amount. 


(c) *Previous audit findings and outstanding monetary obligations.* HUD shall not make an allocation to an insular area that has either an outstanding audit finding for any HUD program, or an outstanding monetary obligation to HUD that is in arrears, or for which a repayment schedule has not been established. This restriction does not apply if the HUD Field Office finds that the insular area has made a good faith effort to clear the audit and, when there is an outstanding monetary obligation to HUD, the insular area has made a satisfactory arrangement for repayment of the funds due HUD and payments are current. 


(d) *Increases to the initial allocation amount.* If funds reserved for the insular areas are available because HUD has decreased the amount for one or more insular areas in accordance with paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, or for any other reason, HUD may increase the allocation amount for one or more of the remaining insular areas based upon the insular area's performance in committing HOME funds within the 24 month deadline, producing housing units described in its program description, and meeting HOME program requirements. Funds that become available but which are not used to increase the allocation amount for one or more of the remaining insular areas will be reallocated in accordance with ยง 92.66. 


(e) *Notice of allocation amounts.* HUD will notify each insular area, in writing, as to the amount of its HOME allocation. 




