# ยง 1258.6   How does NARA calculate fees for individual products?

NARA calculates the fees for individual products using the following:


(a) *Cost summary.* A summary of all costs incurred by the NATF in providing records reproduction services.


(b) *Percent of revenue.* The percentage of the total NATF revenue represented by sales of a product. This is determined and used where a more accurate percentage based upon actual usage is not available. To calculate this percentage, an analysis is made to determine the current percent of NATF sales revenue represented by each product line. The sales volume is then reviewed with the custodial units to determine if this represents anticipated sales.


(c) *Actual cost percent calculation.* Using the information calculated in the Cost Summary, the actual revenue cost percentage is determined. In some cases, the actual percentage of cost can be calculated from available data or known constraints of the product line. For example, if the contractor responsible for providing copy support does not support the reproduction of a given product line then zero (0) percent of the contractor's costs would be allocated to that product line.


(d) *Forecasted volume.* The prediction of a product's sales volume in future year(s). These estimates are made by working with the custodial units and taking into account historical sales volume. An annual percent change is then estimated


(e) *Reimbursements to the custodial units.* The amount paid to the custodial units for records reproductive services in support of NATF customer orders. The NATF reimburses the custodial units for services rendered to the NATF for the reproduction of NARA holdings. To determine the reimbursement per copy for an item, past reimbursement fees are changed by the compounded annual Government salary changes as issued by the Office of Personnel Management for the fiscal years being projected. The new rates are reviewed with custodial unit personnel and adjustments are made as required.


(f) *Additional cost allocation.* The costs unique to a given product line. Each product line is evaluated to determine the costs that are unique to that product line, such as purchase and installation costs of specialty equipment, replacement costs for aging equipment, copier leases and maintenance costs, etc. These costs are then allocated against those product lines that use the equipment. Where costs cross product lines, the allocations are apportioned based upon the percent of the estimated copy volume for each product line.


(g) *Fee calculation.* The product fee is calculated by the following formula: {[(Percent of Revenue * NATF Overhead Costs) + Reimbursement + Additional Costs]/Projected Sales Volume}


(h) *Final review.* After the suggested new fees are calculated, NATF reviews them to establish the final fees. Fees may be adjusted across product lines to ensure that the NATF can succeed in total cost recovery.




