# ยง 1.1256(e)-2   Special rules for syndicates.

(a) *Allocation of losses.* For purposes of section 1256(e)(3), *syndicate* means any partnership or other entity (other than a corporation that is not an S corporation) if more than 35 percent of the losses of such entity during the taxable year are allocated to limited partners or limited entrepreneurs (within the meaning of section 461(k)(4)).


(b) *Determination of loss amount.* For purposes of section 1256(e)(3), the amount of losses to be allocated under paragraph (a) of this section is calculated without regard to section 163(j).


(c) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules in this section:


(1) *Facts.* Entity is an S corporation that is equally owned by individuals A and B. A provides all of the goods and services provided by Entity. B provided all of the capital for Entity but does not participate in Entity's business. For the current taxable year, Entity has gross receipts of $5,000,000, non-interest expenses of $4,500,000, and interest expense of $600,000.


(2) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (b) of this section, Entity has a net loss of $100,000 ($5,000,000 minus $5,100,000) for the current taxable year. One half (50 percent) of this loss is allocated to B, a limited owner. Therefore, for the current taxable year, Entity is a syndicate within the meaning of section 1256(e)(3)(B).


(d) *Applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after March 22, 2021. However, taxpayers and their related parties, within the meaning of sections 267(b) (determined without regard to section 267(c)(3)) and 707(b)(1), may choose to apply the rules in this section for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before March 22, 2021, provided that those taxpayers and their related parties consistently apply all of the rules of this section to that taxable year and each subsequent taxable year.



---

[N] [T.D. 9943, 86 FR 5540, Jan. 19, 2021]




