# ยง 385.2003   Specifications (Rule 2003).

(a) *All filings.* Any filing with the Commission must be: 


(1) Typewritten, printed, reproduced, or prepared using a computer or other word or data processing equipment; 


(2) Have double-spaced lines with left margins not less than 1
1/2 inch wide, except that any tariff or rate filing may be single-spaced; 


(3) Have indented and single-spaced any quotation that exceeds 50 words; and 


(4) Use not less than 10 point font. 


(b) *Filing by paper.* (1) Any filing with the Commission made in paper form must be: 


(i) Printed or reproduced, with each copy clearly legible; 


(ii) On letter-size unglazed paper that is 8 to 8
1/2 inches wide and 10
1/2 to 11 inches long; and 


(iii) Bound or stapled at the left side only, if the filing exceeds one page. 


(2) Any log, graph, map, drawing, or chart submitted as part of a filing will be accepted on paper larger than provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if it cannot be provided legibly on letter-size paper. 


(c) *Filing via the Internet.* (1) All documents filed under this Chapter may be filed via the Internet except those listed by the Secretary. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Chapter, filing via the Internet is in lieu of other methods of filing. Internet filings must be made in accordance with instructions issued by the Secretary and made available online at *http://www.ferc.gov.* Provisions of this chapter or directions from the Commission containing requirements as to the content and format of specific types of filings remain applicable.


(2) The Secretary will make available on the Commission's Web site a list of document types that may not be filed via the Internet, as well as instructions pertaining to allowable electronic file and document formats, the filing of complex documents, whether paper copies are required, and procedural guidelines.


(3) For purposes of statutes or regulations governing timeliness, a document filed via the Internet will be deemed to have been received by the Commission at the time the last byte of the document is received by the Commission. 


(d) *Citation form.* Any filing with the Commission should comply with the rules of citation, except Rule 1.1, set forth in the most current edition of A Uniform System of Citation, published by The Harvard Law Review Association. Citations to specific pages of documents filed via the Internet should use the page numbers appearing in the PDF (Portable Document Format) version of the document available on the Commission's web site.



---

[N] [Order 619, 65 FR 57091, Sept. 21, 2000, as amended by Order 2002, 68 FR 51143, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 703, 72 FR 65664, Nov. 23, 2007]




