# § 792.56   Notice of existence of records, access decisions and disclosure of requested information; time limits.

(a) The system manager identified in the record access procedure section of the “Notice of Systems of Records” and identified in accordance with § 792.54(a), by an individual seeking notification of, or access to, a record, shall be responsible: 


(1) For determining whether access is available under the Privacy Act; (2) for notifying the requesting individual of that determination; and (3) for providing access to information determined to be available. In the case of an individual access request made in person, information determined to be available shall be provided by allowing a personal review of the record or portion of a record containing the information requested and determined to be available, and the individual shall be allowed to have a copy of all or any portion of available information made in a form comprehensible to him. In the case of an individual access request made by mail, information determined to be available shall be provided by mail, unless the individual has requested otherwise. 


(b) The following time limits shall be applicable to the required determinations, notification and provisions of access set forth in paragraph (a) of this section: 


(1) A request concerning a single system of records which does not require consultation with or requisition of records from another agency will be responded to within 20 working days after receipt of the request. 


(2) A request requiring requisition of records from or consultation with another agency will be responded to within 30 working days of receipt of the request. 


(3) If a request under paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section presents unusual difficulties in determining whether the records involved are exempt from disclosure, the Privacy Act Officer, in the Office of General Counsel, may extend the time period established by the regulations by 10 working days.


(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding, or any information exempted from the access provisions of the Privacy Act. 



---

[N] [54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994; 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000]




