# § 54.9802-2   Special rules for certain church plans.

(a) *Exception for certain church plans*—(1) *Church plans in general.* A church plan described in paragraph (b) of this section is not treated as failing to meet the requirements of section 9802 or § 54.9802-1 solely because the plan requires evidence of good health for coverage of individuals under plan provisions described in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.


(2) *Health insurance issuers.* See sections 2702 and 2721(b)(1)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-2 and 300gg-21(b)(1)(B)) and 45 CFR 146.121, which require health insurance issuers providing health insurance coverage under a church plan that is a group health plan to comply with nondiscrimination requirements similar to those that church plans are required to comply with under section 9802 and § 54.9802-1 except that those nondiscrimination requirements do not include an exception for health insurance issuers comparable to the exception for church plans under section 9802(c) and this section.


(b) *Church plans to which this section applies*—(1) *Church plans with certain coverage provisions in effect on July 15, 1997.* This section applies to any church plan (as defined in section 414(e)) for a plan year if, on July 15, 1997 and at all times thereafter before the beginning of the plan year, the plan contains either the provisions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or the provisions described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(2) *Plan provisions applicable to individuals employed by employers of 10 or fewer employees and self-employed individuals.* (i) A plan contains the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(2) if it requires evidence of good health of both—


(A) Any employee of an employer of 10 or fewer employees (determined without regard to section 414(e)(3)(C), under which a church or convention or association of churches is treated as the employer); and


(B) Any self-employed individual.


(ii) A plan does not contain the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(2) if the plan contains only one of the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(2). Thus, for example, a plan that requires evidence of good health of any self-employed individual, but not of any employee of an employer with 10 or fewer employees, does not contain the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(2). Moreover, a plan does not contain the provision described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section if the plan requires evidence of good health of any employee of an employer of fewer than 10 (or greater than 10) employees. Thus, for example, a plan does not contain the provision described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section if the plan requires evidence of good health of any employee of an employer with five or fewer employees.


(3) *Plan provisions applicable to individuals who enroll after the first 90 days of initial eligibility.* (i) A plan contains the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(3) if it requires evidence of good health of any individual who enrolls after the first 90 days of initial eligibility under the plan.


(ii) A plan does not contain the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(3) if it provides for a longer (or shorter) period than 90 days. Thus, for example, a plan requiring evidence of good health of any individual who enrolls after the first 120 days of initial eligibility under the plan does not contain the provisions described in this paragraph (b)(3).


(c) *Examples.* The rules of this section are illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable to plan years beginning on or after July 1, 2007.



---

[N] [T.D. 9299, 71 FR 75056, Dec. 13, 2006]




