# ยง 218.90   Specified activity and geographical region.

(a) Regulations in this subpart apply only to the U.S. Navy for the taking of marine mammals that occurs in the area described in paragraph (b) of this section and that occurs incidental to the activities listed in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) The taking of marine mammals by the Navy under this subpart may be authorized in a Letter of Authorization (LOA) only if it occurs within the Mariana Islands Training and Testing (MITT) Study Area. The MITT Study Area is comprised of three components: The Mariana Islands Range Complex (MIRC), additional areas on the high seas, and a transit corridor between the MIRC and the Hawaii Range Complex (HRC). The MIRC includes the waters south of Guam to north of Pagan (Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI)), and from the Pacific Ocean east of the Mariana Islands to the Philippine Sea to the west, encompassing 501,873 square nautical miles (nmi
2) of open ocean. The additional areas of the high seas include the area to the north of the MIRC that is within the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the CNMI and the areas to the west of the MIRC. The transit corridor is outside the geographic boundaries of the MIRC and represents a great circle route (*i.e.,* the shortest distance) across the high seas for Navy ships transiting between the MIRC and the HRC. Additionally, the MITT Study Area includes pierside locations in the Apra Harbor Naval Complex.


(c) The taking of marine mammals by the Navy is only authorized if it occurs incidental to the Navy conducting training and testing activities, including:


(1) *Training.* (i) Amphibious warfare;


(ii) Anti-submarine warfare;


(iii) Mine warfare;


(iv)-(v) [Reserved];


(vi) Surface warfare; and


(vii) Other training activities.


(2) *Testing.* (i) Naval Air Systems Command Testing Activities;


(ii) Naval Sea Systems Command Testing Activities; and


(iii) Office of Naval Research Testing Activities.






