# § 1006.34   Notice for validation of debts.

(a) *Validation information required*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a debt collector must provide a consumer with the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section either:


(i) By sending the consumer a validation notice in the manner required by § 1006.42:


(A) In the initial communication, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or


(B) Within five days of that initial communication; or


(ii) By providing the validation information orally in the initial communication.


(2) *Exception.* A debt collector who otherwise would be required to send a validation notice pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section is not required to do so if the consumer has paid the debt prior to the time that paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section would require the validation notice to be sent.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Clear and conspicuous* means readily understandable. In the case of written and electronic disclosures, the location and type size also must be readily noticeable and legible to consumers, although no minimum type size is mandated. In the case of oral disclosures, the disclosures also must be given at a volume and speed sufficient for the consumer to hear and comprehend them.


(2) *Initial communication* means the first time that, in connection with the collection of a debt, a debt collector conveys information, directly or indirectly, regarding the debt to the consumer, other than a communication in the form of a formal pleading in a civil action, or any form or notice that does not relate to the collection of the debt and is expressly required by:


(i) The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*);


(ii) Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 through 6827); or


(iii) Any provision of Federal or State law or regulation mandating notice of a data security breach or privacy risk.


(3) *Itemization date* means any one of the following five reference dates for which a debt collector can ascertain the amount of the debt:


(i) The last statement date, which is the date of the last periodic statement or written account statement or invoice provided to the consumer by a creditor;


(ii) The charge-off date, which is the date the debt was charged off;


(iii) The last payment date, which is the date the last payment was applied to the debt;


(iv) The transaction date, which is the date of the transaction that gave rise to the debt; or


(v) The judgment date, which is the date of a final court judgment that determines the amount of the debt owed by the consumer.


(4) *Validation notice* means a written or electronic notice that provides the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section.


(5) *Validation period* means the period starting on the date that a debt collector provides the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section and ending 30 days after the consumer receives or is assumed to receive the validation information. For purposes of determining the end of the validation period, the debt collector may assume that a consumer receives the validation information on any date that is at least five days (excluding legal public holidays identified in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a), Saturdays, and Sundays) after the debt collector provides it.


(c) *Validation information.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a debt collector must provide the following validation information.


(1) *Debt collector communication disclosure.* The statement required by § 1006.18(e).


(2) *Information about the debt.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section:


(i) The debt collector's name and the mailing address at which the debt collector accepts disputes and requests for original-creditor information.


(ii) The consumer's name and mailing address.


(iii) If the debt collector is collecting a debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), the name of the creditor to whom the debt was owed on the itemization date.


(iv) The account number, if any, associated with the debt on the itemization date, or a truncated version of that number.


(v) The name of the creditor to whom the debt currently is owed.


(vi) The itemization date.


(vii) The amount of the debt on the itemization date.


(viii) An itemization of the current amount of the debt reflecting interest, fees, payments, and credits since the itemization date. A debt collector may disclose the itemization on a separate page provided in the same communication with a validation notice, if the debt collector includes on the validation notice, where the itemization would have appeared, a statement referring to that separate page.


(ix) The current amount of the debt.


(3) *Information about consumer protections.* (i) The date that the debt collector will consider the end date of the validation period and a statement that, if the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing on or before that date that the debt, or any portion of the debt, is disputed, the debt collector must cease collection of the debt, or the disputed portion of the debt, until the debt collector sends the consumer either verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment.


(ii) The date that the debt collector will consider the end date of the validation period and a statement that, if the consumer requests in writing on or before that date the name and address of the original creditor, the debt collector must cease collection of the debt until the debt collector sends the consumer the name and address of the original creditor, if different from the current creditor.


(iii) The date that the debt collector will consider the end date of the validation period and a statement that, unless the consumer contacts the debt collector to dispute the validity of the debt, or any portion of the debt, on or before that date, the debt collector will assume that the debt is valid.


(iv) If the debt collector is collecting debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), a statement that informs the consumer that additional information regarding consumer protections in debt collection is available on the Bureau's website at *www.cfpb.gov/debt-collection.*

(v) If the debt collector sends the validation notice electronically, a statement explaining how a consumer can, as described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, dispute the debt or request original-creditor information electronically.


(4) *Consumer-response information.* The following information, segregated from the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and from any optional information included pursuant to paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii), (d)(3)(iii)(A), (d)(3)(iv) and (v), (d)(3)(vi)(A), and (d)(3)(vii) and (viii) of this section, and, if provided on a validation notice, located at the bottom of the notice under the headings, “How do you want to respond?” and “Check all that apply:”:


(i) *Dispute prompts.* The following statements, listed in the following order, and using the following phrasing or substantially similar phrasing, each next to a prompt:


(A) “I want to dispute the debt because I think:”;


(B) “This is not my debt.”;


(C) “The amount is wrong.”; and


(D) “Other (please describe on reverse or attach additional information).”


(ii) *Original-creditor information prompt.* The statement, “I want you to send me the name and address of the original creditor.”, using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase, next to a prompt.


(iii) *Mailing addresses.* Mailing addresses for the consumer and the debt collector, which are the debt collector's and the consumer's names and mailing addresses as disclosed pursuant to § 1006.34(c)(2)(i) and (ii).


(5) *Special rule for certain residential mortgage debt.* For residential mortgage debt, if a periodic statement is required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.41, at the time a debt collector provides the validation notice, a debt collector need not provide the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) through (viii) of this section if the debt collector:


(i) Provides the consumer, in the same communication with the validation notice, a copy of the most recent periodic statement provided to the consumer under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.41(b); and


(ii) Includes on the validation notice, where the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) through (viii) of this section would have appeared, a statement referring to that periodic statement.


(d) *Form of validation information*—(1) *In general.* The validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section must be clear and conspicuous.


(2) *Safe harbor*—(i) *In general.* Model Form B-1 in appendix B to this part contains the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section and certain optional disclosures permitted by paragraph (d)(3) of this section. A debt collector who uses Model Form B-1 complies with the information and form requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section, including if the debt collector:


(A) Omits any or all of the optional disclosures shown on Model Form B-1; or


(B) Adds any or all of the optional disclosures described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section that are not shown on Model Form B-1, provided that any such optional disclosures are no more prominent than any of the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section.


(ii) *Certain disclosures on a separate page.* A debt collector who uses Model Form B-1 as described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and who, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(viii) or (c)(5) of this section, includes certain disclosures on a separate page in the same communication with the validation notice and, on the notice, the required statement referring to those disclosures, receives a safe harbor for compliance with the information and form requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section except with respect to the disclosures on the separate page.


(iii) *Substantially similar form.* A debt collector who uses Model Form B-1 as described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section may make changes to the form and retain a safe harbor for compliance with the information and form requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section provided that the form remains substantially similar to Model Form B-1.


(3) *Optional disclosures.* A debt collector may include any of the following information when providing the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section. A debt collector who includes any of the following information receives the safe harbor described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, provided that the debt collector otherwise uses Model Form B-1 in appendix B to this part, or a variation of Model Form B-1, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(i) *Telephone contact information.* The debt collector's telephone contact information.


(ii) *Reference code.* A number or code that the debt collector uses to identify the debt or the consumer.


(iii) *Payment disclosures.* Either or both of the following phrases:


(A) The statement, “Contact us about your payment options.”, using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase; and


(B) Below the consumer-response information required by paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, the statement, “I enclosed this amount:”, using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase, payment instructions after that statement, and a prompt.


(iv) *Disclosures under applicable law*—(A) *Disclosures on the reverse of the validation notice.* On the reverse of the validation notice, any disclosures that are specifically required by, or that provide safe harbors under, applicable law and, if any such disclosures are included, a statement on the front of the validation notice referring to those disclosures. Any such disclosures must not appear directly on the reverse of the consumer-response information required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(B) *Disclosures on the front of the validation notice.* If a debt collector is collecting time-barred debt, on the front of the validation notice below the disclosure required by paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section, any time-barred debt disclosure that is specifically required by, or that provides a safe harbor under, applicable law, provided that applicable law specifies the content of the disclosure.


(v) *Information about electronic communications.* The following information:


(A) The debt collector's website and email address.


(B) If the validation information is not provided electronically, a statement explaining how a consumer can, as described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, dispute the debt or request original-creditor information electronically.


(vi) *Spanish-language translation disclosures.* Either or both of the following disclosures regarding a consumer's ability to request a Spanish-language translation of a validation notice:


(A) The statement, “Póngase en contacto con nosotros para solicitar una copia de este formulario en español” (which means “Contact us to request a copy of this form in Spanish”), using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase in Spanish. If providing this optional disclosure, a debt collector may include supplemental information in Spanish that specifies how a consumer may request a Spanish-language validation notice.


(B) With the consumer-response information required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the statement “Quiero este formulario en español” (which means “I want this form in Spanish”), using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase in Spanish, next to a prompt.


(vii) The merchant brand, affinity brand, or facility name, if any, associated with the debt.


(viii) If a debt collector is collecting debt other than debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), the information specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) or (c)(3)(iv) of this section.


(4) *Validation notices delivered electronically.* If a debt collector delivers a validation notice electronically, a debt collector may, at its option, format the validation notice as follows:


(i) *Prompts.* Any prompt required by paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) or paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) or (d)(3)(vi)(B) of this section may be displayed electronically as a fillable field.


(ii) *Hyperlinks.* Hyperlinks may be embedded that, when clicked:


(A) Connect a consumer to the debt collector's website;


(B) Connect a consumer to the Bureau's debt collection website as disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section; or


(C) Permit a consumer to respond to the dispute and original-creditor information prompts required by paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(e) *Translation into other languages*—(1) *In general.* A debt collector may send a consumer a validation notice completely and accurately translated into any language if the debt collector:


(i) Sends the consumer an English-language validation notice in the same communication as the translated validation notice; or


(ii) Previously provided the consumer an English-language validation notice, in which case the debt collector need not send the consumer an English-language validation notice in the same communication as the translated validation notice.


(2) *Spanish-language validation notice—requirement to provide after optional disclosure.* A debt collector who includes in the validation information either or both of the optional disclosures described in paragraph (d)(3)(vi) of this section, and who thereafter receives a request from the consumer for a Spanish-language validation notice, must provide the consumer a validation notice completely and accurately translated into Spanish.



---

[N] [86 FR 5854, Jan. 19, 2021]




