# ยง 2500.031   Administration.

(a) *General.* Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the OAO ADO shall make Federal assistance awards to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious under the procedures set forth in the RFP. The date specified by the OAO ADO as the effective date of the award shall be no later than September 30th of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. It should be noted that the project need not be initiated on the award effective date, but as soon thereafter as practical so that project goals may be attained within the funded project period. All funds awarded by OAO shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are awarded in accordance with the approved statement of work and budget, the regulations, the terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement, the applicable Federal cost principles, and the Department's assistance regulations (e.g., 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016, and 3019).


(b) *Award agreement.* The award agreement and accompanying terms and conditions will provide pertinent instructions and information including, at a minimum, the following:


(1) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to which OAO has awarded a grant or cooperative agreement.


(2) Title of project.


(3) Name(s) of Project Director(s).


(4) Identifying award number assigned by OAO.


(5) Project period.


(6) Total amount of OAO financial assistance approved.


(7) Legal authority under which the grant or cooperative agreement is awarded.


(8) Appropriate CFDA number.


(9) Approved budget plan (that may be referenced).


(10) Terms and Conditions




