# ยง 1033.630   Staged-assembly and delegated assembly exemptions.

(a) *Staged assembly.* You may ask us to provide a temporary exemption to allow you to complete production of your engines and locomotives at different facilities, as long as you maintain control of the engines until they are in their certified configuration. We may require you to take specific steps to ensure that such locomotives are in their certified configuration before reaching the ultimate purchaser. You may request an exemption under this paragraph (a) in your application for certification, or in a separate submission. If you include your request in your application, your exemption is approved when we grant your certificate. Note that no exemption is needed to ship an engine that has been assembled in its certified configuration, is properly labeled, and will not require an aftertreatment device to be attached when installed in the locomotive.


(b) *Delegated assembly.* This paragraph (b) applies where the engine manufacturer/remanufacturer does not complete assembly of the locomotives and the engine is shipped after being manufactured or remanufactured (partially or completely). The provisions of this paragraph (b) apply differently depending on who holds the certificate of conformity and the state of the engine when it is shipped. You may request an exemption under this paragraph (b) in your application for certification, or in a separate submission. If you include your request in your application, your exemption is approved when we grant your certificate. A manufacturer/remanufacturer may request an exemption under 40 CFR 1068.261 instead of under this section.


(1) In cases where an engine has been assembled in its certified configuration, properly labeled, and will not require an aftertreatment device to be attached when installed in the locomotive, no exemption is needed to ship the engine. You do not need an exemption to ship engines without specific components if they are not emission-related components identified in appendix A of 40 CFR part 1068.


(2) In cases where an engine has been properly labeled by the certificate holder and assembled in its certified configuration except that it does not yet have a required aftertreatment device, an exemption is required to ship the engine. You may ask for this exemption if you do all of the following:


(i) You note on the Engine Emission Control Information label that the locomotive must include the aftertreatment device to be covered by the certificate.


(ii) You make clear in your emission-related installation instructions that installation of the aftertreatment device is required for the locomotive to be covered by the certificate.


(3) In cases where an engine will be shipped to the certificate holder in an uncertified configuration, an exemption is required to ship the engine. You may ask for this exemption under 40 CFR 1068.262.


(c) *Other exemptions.* In unusual circumstances, you may ask us to provide an exemption for an assembly process that is not covered by the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. We will make the exemption conditional based on you complying with requirements that we determine are necessary to ensure that the locomotives are assembled in their certified configuration before being placed (back) into service. 



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59190, Oct. 8, 2008; 88 FR 4486, Jan. 24, 2023]




