# ยง 12.2   Code of Federal Regulations.

(a) Copies of the Code of Federal Regulations in paper form shall be made available to the following without charge:


(1) *Congressional committees.* Each committee of the Senate and House of Representatives will be provided with the number of copies needed for official use based on a written request from the chairperson, or authorized delegate, to the Director of the Federal Register.


(2) *Supreme Court.* The Supreme Court will be provided with the number of copies needed for official use based on a written request to the Director of the Federal Register.


(3) *Other courts.* Other constitutional and legislative courts of the United States will be provided with the number of copies needed for official use based on a written request from the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, or authorized delegate, to the Director of the Federal Register.


(4) *Executive agencies.* Each Federal executive agency will be provided with the number of copies needed for official use, not to exceed 300 copies of individual titles per agency, based on a written request from the agency Federal Register authorizing officer, or the alternate, designated under ยง 16.1 of this chapter, to the Director of the Federal Register.


(b) Legislative, judicial, and executive agencies of the Federal Government may obtain additional copies of selected units of the Code, at cost, for official use, by submission, before the press run, of a printing and binding requisition to the Government Printing Office on Standard Form 1.


(c) After the press run, each request for extra copies of selected units of the Code must be addressed to the Superintendent of Documents, to be paid for by the agency making the request.





---

[N] [54 FR 9678, Mar. 7, 1989, as amended at 87 FR 80002, Dec. 29, 2022]




