# § 404.2121   Validation reviews.

(a) *General.* We will conduct a validation review of a sample of the claims for payment filed by each State VR agency. We will conduct some of these reviews on a prepayment basis and some on a postpayment basis. We may review a specific claim, a sample of the claims, or all the claims filed by any State VR agency, if we determine that such review is necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart. For each claim selected for review, the State VR agency must submit such records of the VR services and costs for which payment has been requested or made under this subpart, or copies of such records, as we may require to ensure that the services and costs meet the requirements for payment. For claims for cases described in § 404.2101(a), a clear explanation or existing documentation which demonstrates how the service contributed to the individual's performance of a continuous 9-month period of SGA must be provided. For claims for cases described in § 404.2101(b) or (c), a clear explanation or existing documentation which demonstrates how the service was reasonably expected to motivate or assist the individual to return to or continue in SGA must be provided. If we find in any prepayment validation review, that the scope or content of the information is inadequate, we will request additional information and will withhold payment until adequate information has been provided. The State VR agency shall permit us (including duly authorized representatives) access to, and the right to examine, any records relating to such services and costs. Any review performed under this section will not be considered an audit for purposes of this subpart.


(b) *Purpose.* The primary purpose of these reviews is—


(1) To ensure that the VR services and costs meet the requirements for payment under this subpart;


(2) To assess the validity of our documentation requirements; and


(3) To assess the need for additional validation reviews or additional documentation requirements for any State VR agency to ensure compliance with the requirements under this subpart.


(c) *Determinations.* In any validation review, we will determine whether the VR services and costs meet the requirements for payment and determine the amount of payment. We will notify in writing the State VR agency of our determination. If we find in any postpayment validation review that more or less than the correct amount of payment was made for a claim, we will determine that an overpayment or underpayment has occurred and will notify the State VR agency that we will make the appropriate adjustment.


(d) *Appeals.* If the State VR agency disagrees with our determination under this section, it may appeal that determination in accordance with § 404.2127. For purposes of this section, an appeal must be filed within 60 days after receiving the notice of our determination.



---

[N] [59 FR 11916, Mar. 15, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 62458, Dec. 4, 2018]




