# § 63.9321   What are the general requirements for performance tests?

(a) You must conduct each performance test required by § 63.9310 under the conditions in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h). Prior to December 1, 2020, the performance test must also be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1).


(1) *Representative engine testing conditions.* You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the test cell/stand. Operations during periods of SSM, and during periods of nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.


(2) *Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.* You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.


(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.9322. You must conduct each performance test of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.9323.



---

[N] [68 FR 28785, May 27, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 34346, June 3, 2020]




