# § 138.220   TSMS elements.

The TSMS must include the elements listed in paragrahs (a) through (d) of this section. If an element listed is not applicable to an owner or managing operator, appropriate justification must be documented and is subject to acceptance by the TPO.


(a) *Administration and management organization.* A policy must be in place that outlines the TSMS culture and how management intends to ensure compliance with this subpart. Supporting this policy, the following procedures and documentation must be included:


(1) *Management organization*—(i) *Responsibilities.* The management organization, authority, and responsibilities of individuals must be documented.


(ii) *Designated person.* Each owner or managing operator must designate in writing the shoreside person(s) responsible for ensuring the TSMS is implemented and continuously functions throughout management and the fleet. They must also designate the shoreside person(s) responsible for ensuring that the vessels are properly maintained and in operable condition, including those responsible for emergency assistance to each towing vessel.


(iii) *Master authority.* Each owner or managing operator must define the scope of the master's authority. The master's authority must provide for the ability to make final determinations on safe operations of the towing vessel. Specifically, it must provide the authority for the master to cease operation if an unsafe condition exists.


(2) *Audits*—(i) *Procedures for conducting internal and external audits.* The TSMS must contain procedures for audits in accordance with §§ 138.310 and 138.315.


(ii) *Procedures for identifying and correcting non-conformities.* The TSMS must contain procedures for any person to report non-conformities. The procedures must describe how an initial report should be made and the actions taken to follow-up and ensure appropriate resolution.


(b) *Personnel.* Policies must be in place that cover the owner or managing operator's approach to managing personnel, including, but not limited to, employment, training, and health and safety of personnel. Supporting these polices, the following procedures and documentation must be included:


(1) *Employment procedures.* The TSMS must contain procedures related to the employment of individuals. Procedures must be in place to ensure adequate qualifications of personnel, to include background checks, compliance with drug and alcohol standards, and that personnel are able to perform required tasks.


(2) *Training of personnel.* The TSMS must contain a policy related to the training of personnel, including:


(i) New-hire orientation;


(ii) Duties associated with the execution of the TSMS;


(iii) Execution of operational duties;


(iv) Execution of emergency procedures;


(v) Occupational health;


(vi) Crew safety; and


(vii) Training required by this Subchapter.


(c) *Verification of vessel compliance.* Policies must be in place that cover the owner or managing operator's approach for ensuring vessel compliance, including, but not limited to, policies on maintenance and survey, safety, the environment, security, and emergency preparedness. Supporting these policies, the following procedures and documentation must be included:


(1) *Maintenance and survey.* Procedures outlining the owner or managing operator's survey regime must specify all maintenance, examination, and survey requirements, including the minimum qualifications of persons assigned to carry out required surveys the owner or managing operator is using the internal examination program. Applicable documentation must be maintained for all activities for a period of 5 years.


(2) *Safety, environment, and security.* Procedures must be in place to ensure safety of property, the environment, and personnel. This must include procedures to ensure the selection of the appropriate vessel, including adequate maneuverability and horsepower, appropriate rigging and towing gear, proper management of the navigational watch, and compliance with applicable security measures.


(d) *Compliance with this subchapter.* Procedures and documentation must be in place to ensure that each towing vessel complies with the operational, equipment, and personnel requirements of this subchapter.




