# ยง 1.6073-3   Short taxable years.

(a) *Individuals other than farmers or fishermen.* In the case of short taxable years the declaration shall be filed on or before the 15th day of the 4th month of such taxable year if the requirements of section 6015(a) are met on or before the 1st day of the 4th month of such year. If such requirements are first met after the 1st day of the 4th month but before the 2d day of the 6th month, the declaration must be filed on or before the 15th day of the 6th month. If such requirements are first met after the 1st day of the 6th month but before the 2d day of the 9th month, the declaration must be filed on or before the 15th day of the 9th month. If, however, the period for which the declaration is filed is one of 4 months, or one of 6 months and the requirements of section 6015(a) are not met until after the 1st day of the 4th month, or one of 9 months and such requirements are not met until after the 1st day of the 6th month, the declaration may be filed on or before the 15th day of the succeeding taxable year.


(b) *Farmers or fishermen.* In the case of an individual:


(1) Whose current taxable year is a short taxable year and whose estimated gross income from farming or fishing (including oyster farming) is at least two-thirds of his total estimated gross income from all sources for such current taxable year, or


(2) Whose taxable year preceding the current taxable year was a short taxable year and whose gross income from farming or fishing (including oyster farming) was at least two-thirds of the total gross income from all sources shown on the return for such preceding short taxable year (with respect to declarations of estimated tax for taxable years beginning after November 10, 1978),


(c) *Nonresident aliens.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, in the case of a short taxable year, a nonresident alien described in section 6072(c) (relating to returns of nonresident aliens whose wages are not subject to withholding) whose anticipated income for the short taxable year meets the requirements of section 6015(a). Sections 1.6015(a)-1, 1.6015(g)-1, and 1.6015(i)-1 on or before the 1st day of the 6th month following the beginning of such year need not file a declaration of estimated tax before the 15th day of the 6th month following the beginning of such year.



---

[N] [T.D. 6678, 28 FR 10516, Oct. 1, 1963, as amended by T.D. 7719, 45 FR 60903, Sept. 15, 1980]




