# § 63.1659   Reporting requirements.

(a) *General reporting requirements.* The owner or operator of a ferromanganese and silicomanganese production facility must comply with all of the reporting requirements under § 63.10 of subpart A, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.


(1) *Frequency of reports.* As provided by § 63.10(a)(5), if the owner or operator is required to submit periodic reports to a State on an established time line, he or she may change the dates by which periodic reports submitted under this part may be submitted (without changing the frequency of reporting) to be consistent with the State's schedule by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the State. This provision may be applied at any point after the source's compliance date.


(2) *Reporting results of performance tests.* As required by § 63.10(d)(2), the owner or operator of an affected source must report the results of the initial performance test as part of the notification of compliance status required in § 63.1658(f).


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Reporting malfunctions*. If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number, duration and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1652(f), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(b) *Specific reporting requirements.* In addition to the information required under § 63.10, reports required under paragraph (a) of this section must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. As allowed by § 63.10(a)(3), if any State requires a report that contains all of the information required in a report listed in this section, an owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the report sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that report.


(1) *Air pollution control devices.* The owner or operator must submit reports that summarize the records maintained as part of the practices described in the maintenance plan for air pollution control devices required under § 63.1655(b), including an explanation of the periods when the procedures were not followed and the corrective actions taken.


(2) *Venturi scrubbers.* In addition to the information required to be submitted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must submit reports that identify the periods when the average hourly pressure drop of venturi scrubbers used to control particulate emissions dropped below the levels established in § 63.1656(c)(4), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.


(3) *Fugitive dust.* The owner or operator must submit reports that explain the periods when the procedures outlined in the fugitive dust control plan pursuant to § 63.1654(a) were not followed and the corrective actions taken.


(4) *Capture system.* The owner or operator must submit reports that summarize the monitoring parameter excursions measured pursuant to § 63.1657(c) and the corrective actions taken.


(5) *Bag leak detection system.* The owner or operator must submit reports including the following information:


(i) Records of all alarms.


(ii) Description of the actions taken following each bag leak detection system alarm.


(iii) Calculation of the percent of time the alarm on the bag leak detection system sounded during the reporting period.


(6) *Frequency of reports.* (i) The owner or operator must submit reports pursuant to § 63.10(e)(3) that are associated with excess emissions events such as the excursion of the scrubber pressure drop limit per paragraph (b)(2) of this section. These reports are to be submitted on a quarterly basis, unless the owner or operator can satisfy the requirements in § 63.10(e)(3) to reduce the frequency to a semiannual basis.


(ii) All other reports specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section must be submitted semiannually.



---

[N] [64 FR 27458, May 20, 1999, as amended at 80 FR 37399, June 30, 2015]




