# § 63.92   Approval of State requirements that adjust a section 112 rule.

Under this section a State may seek approval of State requirements that make pre-approved adjustments to a Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement that are unambiguously no less stringent than the Federal rule, emission standard, or requirement. 


(a) *Approval process.* (1) If the Administrator finds that the criteria of this section and the criteria of § 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve the State requirements, publish them in the _Federal Register,_ and incorporate them, directly or by reference, in the appropriate subpart of part 63, without additional notice and opportunity for comment. Requirements approved under § 63.95 will be incorporated pursuant to requirements under part 68 of this chapter. 


(2) If the Administrator finds that any one of the State adjustments to the Federal rule is in any way ambiguous with respect to the stringency of applicability, level of control, compliance and enforcement measures, or the compliance date for any affected source or emission point, the Administrator will either disapprove the State request or consider the request under § 63.93. 


(3) Within 60 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this section, the Administrator will either approve or disapprove the State request. If approved, the change will be effective upon signature of the _Federal Register_ notice. 


(4) Requirements submitted for approval under this section shall include either title V permits, title V general permits, Federal new source review permits, or State rules. Permits must already be issued to be used under this section. 


(5) If the State uses a permit as the basis of alternative requirements under this section, the relevant permit terms and conditions must remain applicable to the source, even if the source takes steps that would otherwise release it from an obligation to have a permit. 


(b) *Criteria for approval.* Any request for approval under this section shall meet all of the criteria of this section and § 63.91 before approval. The State shall provide the Administrator with: 


(1) A demonstration that the public within the State has had adequate notice and opportunity to submit written comment on the State requirements, and 


(2) A demonstration that each State adjustment to the Federal rule individually results in requirements that: 


(i) Are unequivocally no less stringent than the otherwise applicable Federal rule with respect to applicability; 


(ii) Are unequivocally no less stringent than the otherwise applicable Federal rule with respect to level of control for each affected source and emission point; 


(iii) Are unequivocally no less stringent than the otherwise applicable Federal rule with respect to compliance and enforcement measures for each affected source and emission point; and 


(iv) Assure compliance by every affected source no later than would be required by the otherwise applicable Federal rule. 


(3) State adjustments to Federal section 112 rules which may be part of an approved rule under this section are: 


(i) Lowering a required emission rate or *de minimis* level; 


(ii) Adding a design, work practice, operational standard, emission rate or other such requirement; 


(iii) Increasing a required control efficiency; 


(iv) Increasing the frequency of required reporting, testing, sampling or monitoring; 


(v) Adding to the amount of information required for records or reports; 


(vi) Decreasing the amount of time to come into compliance; 


(vii) Subjecting additional emission points or sources within a source category to control requirements; 


(viii) Any adjustments allowed in a specific section 112 rule; 


(ix) Minor editorial, formatting, and other nonsubstantive changes; or


(x) Identical alternative requirements previously approved by the Administrator in another local agency within the same State, if previously noticed that the alternative requirements would be applicable in the jurisdiction seeking approval under this section. 



---

[N] [65 FR 55840, Sept. 14, 2000]




