# § 49.19   Core principles applicable to swap data repositories.

(a) *Compliance with core principles.* To be registered, and maintain registration, a swap data repository shall comply with the core principles as described in this section. Unless otherwise determined by the Commission by rule or regulation, a swap data repository shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the swap data repository complies with the core principles described in this section.


(b) *Antitrust considerations (Core Principle 1).* Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Act, a swap data repository shall avoid adopting any rule or taking any action that results in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or imposing any material anticompetitive burden on trading, clearing or reporting swaps.


(c) *Governance arrangements (Core Principle 2).* Swap data repositories shall establish governance arrangements as set forth in § 49.20.


(d) *Conflicts of interest (Core Principle 3).* Swap data repositories shall manage and minimize conflicts of interest and establish processes for resolving such conflicts of interest as set forth in § 49.21.


(e) *Additional duties (Core Principle 4).* Swap data repositories shall also comply with the following additional duties:


(1) *Financial resources.* Swap data repositories shall maintain sufficient financial resources as set forth in § 49.25;


(2) *Disclosure requirements of swap data repositories.* Swap data repositories shall furnish an appropriate disclosure document setting forth the risks and costs of swap data repository services as detailed in § 49.26; and


(3) *Access and Fees.* Swap data repositories shall adhere to Commission requirements regarding fair and open access and the charging of any fees, dues or other similar type charges as detailed in § 49.27.



---

[N] [76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75661, Nov. 25, 2020]




