# ยง 45.21   Alternate methods or procedures.

(a) A manufacturer, on specific approval by the appropriate TTB officer as provided in this section, may use an alternate method or procedure in lieu of a method or procedure specifically prescribed in this part. The appropriate TTB officer may approve an alternate method or procedure, subject to stated conditions, when that officer finds that: 


(1) Good cause has been shown for the use of the alternate method or procedure.


(2) The alternate method or procedure is within the purpose of, and consistent with the effect intended by, the specifically prescribed method or procedure, and affords equivalent security to the revenue, and


(3) The alternate method or procedure will not be contrary to any provision of law, and will not result in an increase in cost to the Government or hinder the effective administration of this part.


(b) No alternate method or procedure relating to the giving of any bond or to the assessment, payment, or collection of tax, shall be authorized under this section. Where a manufacturer desires to employ an alternate method or procedure, the manufacturer must submit a written application to the appropriate TTB officer. The application shall specifically describe the proposed alternate method or procedure, and shall set forth the reasons therefor. Alternate methods or procedures shall not be employed until the application has been approved by the appropriate TTB officer. The manufacturer shall, during the period of authorization of an alternate method or procedure, comply with the terms of the approved application. Authorization for any alternate method or procedure may be withdrawn whenever in the judgment of the appropriate TTB officer the revenue is jeopardized or the effective administration of this part is hindered. The manufacturer shall retain, as part of their records, any authorization of the appropriate TTB officer under this section for three years following the close of the calendar year in which the operation under such authorization is concluded.



---

[N] [Redesignated by T.D. ATF-469, 66 FR 56758, Nov. 13, 2001, as amended by T.D. ATF-472, 67 FR 8880, Feb. 27, 2002; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87949, Nov. 6, 2024]






