# § 24.10   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in the forms prescribed under this part, terms will have the meanings ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form also include the singular, and *vice versa,* and words indicating the masculine gender also include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude items not enumerated which are in the same general class. The definitions in this section do not supersede or affect the requirements of part 4 of this chapter, relative to the labeling of wine under the provisions of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (49 Stat. 981; 27 U.S.C. 205).


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Affiliated persons or firms.* When used in connection with “own production”, one or more bonded wine premises proprietors associated as members of the same farm cooperative, or any one or more bonded wine premises proprietors affiliated within the meaning of section 117(a)(5) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, as amended (49 Stat. 989; 27 U.S.C. 211).


*Agricultural wine.* Wine made from suitable agricultural products other than the juice of grapes, berries, or other fruits.


*Allied products.* Commercial fruit products and by-products (including volatile fruit-flavor concentrate) not taxable as wine.


*Amelioration.* The addition to juice or natural wine before, during, or after fermentation, of either water or pure dry sugar, or a combination of water and sugar to adjust the acid level.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.24, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 24, Wine.


*Artificially carbonated hard cider.* Hard cider artificially injected with carbon dioxide and containing more than 0.392 but not more than 0.64 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters.


*Artificially carbonated wine.* Wine (other than hard cider) artificially injected with carbon dioxide and containing more than 0.392 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters.


*Bonded wine cellar.* Premises established under the provisions of this part. For the purposes of this part a wine premises designated a bonded winery is also a bonded wine cellar. This term includes premises described in the preceding sentence even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 24.146(d), has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Bonded wine premises.* Premises established under the provisions of this part on which operations in untaxpaid wine are authorized to be conducted. This term includes premises described in the preceding sentence even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 24.146(d), has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Bonded wine warehouse.* Bonded warehouse facilities established under the provisions of this part on wine premises by a warehouse company or other person for the storage of wine and allied products for credit purposes. This term includes facilities described in the preceding sentence even if the warehouse company or other person, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 24.146(d), has not provided a bond for the facility.


*Bonded winery.* Premises established under the provisions of this part on which wine production operations are conducted and other authorized operations may be conducted. This term includes premises described in the preceding sentence even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 24.146(d), has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Bottle.* A container four liters or less in capacity, regardless of the material from which it is made, used to store wine or to remove wine from the wine premises.


*Bottler.* A proprietor of wine premises established under the provisions of this part who fills wine into a bottle.


*Brix.* The quantity of dissolved solids expressed as grams of sucrose in 100 grams of solution at 68 degrees F. (20 degrees C.) (Percent by weight of sugar).


*Bulk container.* Any container larger than 60 liters.


*Business day.* Any day, other than Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. (The term “legal holiday” includes all holidays in the District of Columbia and statewide holidays in a particular State in which a claim, report, or return, as the case may be, is required to be filed, or the act is required to be performed.)


*Calendar quarter and quarterly.* These terms refer to the three-month periods ending on March 31, June 30, September 30, or December 31.


*Calendar year.* The period which begins January 1 and ends on the following December 31.


*Case.* Two or more bottles, or one or more containers larger than four liters, enclosed in a box or fastened together by some other method.


*Chaptalization (Brix adjustment).* The addition of sugar or concentrated juice of the same kind of fruit to juice before or during fermentation to develop alcohol by fermentation.


*Cider.* See definitions for hard cider and tax exempt cider. For the labeling of wine that may be designated as “cider” under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, see § 4.21(e)(5) of this chapter.


*Concentrate plant.* An establishment qualified under part 18 of this chapter for the production of volatile fruit-flavor concentrate.


*Container.* A receptacle, regardless of the material from which it is made, used to store wine or to remove wine from wine premises. (Also see the definition of bulk container for containers larger than 60 liters).


*Director of the service center.* A director of an internal revenue service center.


*Distilled spirits plant.* An establishment qualified under part 19 of this chapter (excluding alcohol fuel plants) for producing, warehousing, or processing of distilled spirits (including denatured spirits), or manufacturing of articles.


*Distilling material.* Any fermented or other alcoholic substance capable of, or intended for use in, the original distillation or other original processing of spirits.


*District director.* A district director of internal revenue.


*Effervescent wine.* A wine containing more than 0.392 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters, including artificially carbonated hard cider, artificially carbonated wine, sparkling hard cider, and sparkling wine.


*Electronic fund transfer (EFT).* Any transfer of funds effected by a proprietor's financial institution, either directly or through a correspondent banking relationship, via the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank.


*Executed under penalties of perjury.* Signed with the prescribed declaration under the penalties of perjury as provided on or with respect to the return, claim, form, or other document or, where no form of declaration is prescribed, with the declaration: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that this __________ (insert type of document such as statement, report, certificate, application, claim, or other document), including the documents submitted in support thereof, has been examined by me and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, is true, correct, and complete.”


*Export or exportation.* A severance of goods from the mass of things belonging to the United States with the intention of uniting them to the mass of things belonging to some foreign country and will include shipments to any possession of the United States. For the purposes of this part, shipments to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and to the territories of the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Guam will also be treated as exportations.


*Fiduciary.* A guardian, trustee, executor, receiver, administrator, conservator, or any person acting in any fiduciary capacity for any person.


*Financial institution.* A bank or other financial institution, whether or not a member of the Federal Reserve System, which has access to the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire. The “FRCS” or “Fedwire” is a communications network that allows Federal Reserve System member financial institutions to effect a transfer of funds for their customers (or other financial institutions) to the Treasury account at the Federal Reserve Bank.


*Fold.* The ratio of the volume of the fruit must or juice to the volume of the volatile fruit-flavor concentrate produced from the fruit must or juice; for example, one gallon of volatile fruit-flavor concentrate of 100-fold would be the product from 100 gallons of fruit must or juice.


*Foreign wine.* Wine produced outside the United States.


*Formula wine.* Special natural wine, agricultural wine, and other than standard wine (except for distilling material and vinegar stock) produced on bonded wine premises under an approved formula.


*From bond.* When used with reference to withdrawals of wine, this phrase includes withdrawals from the premises established under the provisions of this part on which operations in untaxpaid wine are authorized to be conducted, even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 24.146(d), has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Fruit wine.* Wine made from the juice of sound, ripe fruit (other than grapes). Fruit wine also includes wine made from berries or wine made from a combination of grapes and other fruit (including berries).


*Gallon or wine gallon.* A United States gallon of liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches.


*Grams per liter.* For the purposes of this part, the unit of measure equivalent to the “parts per thousand” unit of measure prescribed in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.


*Grape wine.* Wine made from the juice of sound, ripe grapes.


*Hard cider.* A wine that meets the eligibility requirements set forth in § 24.331 for the hard cider tax rate set forth in § 24.270. See the definitions for artificially carbonated hard cider, sparkling hard cider, and still hard cider.


*Heavy bodied blending wine.* Wine made from fruit without added sugar, with or without added wine spirits, and conforming to the definition of natural wine in all respects except as to maximum total solids content.


*High-proof concentrate.* A volatile fruit-flavor concentrate (essence) that has an alcohol content of more than 24 percent by volume and is unfit for beverage use (nonpotable) because of its natural constituents, i.e., without the addition of other substances.


*In bond.* When used with respect to wine or spirits, “in bond” refers to wine or spirits possessed under bond to secure the payment of the taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. Chapter 51, and on which such taxes have not been determined. Wine or spirits are considered to be possessed under bond if they are possessed by a proprietor who is liable for the tax, even if the proprietor is not required to provide a bond under this chapter. The term includes any wine or spirits on the bonded wine premises or a distilled spirits plant, or in transit between bonded premises (including in the case of wine, bonded wine premises).

Additionally, the term refers to wine withdrawn without payment of tax under 26 U.S.C. 5362 and to spirits withdrawn without payment of tax under 26 U.S.C. 5214 (a)(5) or (a)(13) with respect to which relief from liability has not yet occurred.


*Invert sugar syrup.* A substantially colorless solution of invert sugar which has been prepared by recognized methods of inversion from pure dry sugar and contains not less than 60 percent sugar by weight (60 degrees Brix).


*Juice.* The unfermented juice (concentrated or unconcentrated) of grapes, other fruit (including berries) and authorized agricultural products exclusive of pulp, skins, or seeds.


*Kind.* Kind means the class and type of wine prescribed in this part and in 27 CFR part 4.


*Lees.* The settlings of wine.


*Liquid sugar.* A substantially colorless refined sugar and water solution containing not less than the equivalent of 60 percent pure dry sugar by weight (60 degrees Brix).


*Liter.* A metric unit of capacity equal to 1,000 cubic centimeters at 20 degrees C. or 33.814 United States fluid ounces at 68 degrees F. of alcoholic beverage.


*Lot.* Wine of the same type. When used with reference to a “lot of wine bottled”, lot means the same type of wine bottled or packed on the same date into containers.


*Must.* Unfermented juice or any mixture of juice, pulp, skins, and seeds prepared from grapes or other fruit (including berries).


*Natural wine.* The product of the juice or must of sound, ripe grapes or other sound, ripe fruit (including berries) made with any cellar treatment authorized by subparts F and L of this part and containing not more than 21 percent by weight (21 degrees Brix dealcoholized wine) of total solids.


*Nonbeverage wine.* Wine, or wine products made from wine, rendered unfit for beverage use in accordance with § 24.215.


*Own production.* When used with reference to wine in a bonded winery, the term means wine produced by fermentation in the same bonded winery, whether or not produced by a predecessor in interest at the bonded winery. The term includes wine produced by fermentation in bonded wineries owned or controlled by the same or affiliated persons or firms when located within the same State.


*Packer.* A proprietor of wine premises established under the provisions of this part who fills wine into a container larger than four liters.


*Person.* An individual, trust, estate, partnership, association, company, or corporation. When used in connection with penalties, seizures, and forfeitures, the term includes an officer or employee of a corporation or a member or employee of a partnership, who as an officer, employee or member, is under a duty to perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.


*Proof.* The ethyl alcohol content of a liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, stated as twice the percent of ethyl alcohol by volume.


*Proof gallon.* A United States gallon of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit which contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity, or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Proprietor.* The person qualified under this part to operate a wine premises, and includes the term “winemaker” when the context so requires.


*Pure dry sugar.* Refined sugar 95 percent or more by weight dry, having a dextrose equivalent of not less than 95 percent on a dry basis, and produced from cane, beets, or fruit, or from grain or other sources of starch.


*Reconditioning.* The conduct of operations, after original bottling or packing, to restore wine to a merchantable condition. The term includes relabeling or recasing operations.


*Same kind of fruit.* In the case of grapes, all of the species and varieties of grapes. In the case of fruits other than grapes, this term includes all of the several species and varieties of any given kind; except that this will not preclude a more precise identification of the composition of the product for the purpose of its designation.


*Secretary of the Treasury* or *Secretary.* The Secretary of the Treasury or a delegate of the Secretary.




*Sparkling hard cider.* Hard cider containing more than 0.392 but not more than 0.64 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters of wine, resulting solely from the secondary fermentation of the wine within a closed container.


*Sparkling wine or champagne.* Wine (other than hard cider) containing more than 0.392 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters of wine resulting solely from the secondary fermentation of the wine within a closed container.


*Special natural wine.* A product produced from a base of natural wine (including heavy bodied blending wine) to which natural flavorings are added, and made pursuant to an approved formula in accordance with subpart H of this part.


*Specially sweetened natural wine.* A product made with a base of natural wine and having a total solids content in excess of 17 percent by weight (17 degrees Brix dealcoholized wine) and an alcohol content of not more than 14 percent by volume.


*Spirits.* That substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions or mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced), but not denatured spirits unless specifically stated.


*Standard wine.* Natural wine, specially sweetened natural wine, special natural wine, and standard agricultural wine, produced in accordance with subparts F, H, and I of this part.


*Still hard cider.* A hard cider containing not more than 0.392 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters.


*Still wine.* Wine (other than hard cider) containing not more than 0.392 gram of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters.


*Sugar.* Pure dry sugar, liquid sugar, and invert sugar syrup.


*Sweetening.* The addition of juice, concentrated juice or sugar to wine after the completion of fermentation and before taxpayment.


*Tax exempt cider.* Cider produced in accordance with § 24.76


*Tax year.* The period from July 1 of one calendar year through June 30 of the following year.


*Taxpaid wine.* Wine on which the tax imposed by law has been determined, regardless of whether the tax has actually been paid or the payment of tax has been deferred.


*Taxpaid wine bottling house.* Premises established under the provisions of this part primarily for bottling or packing taxpaid wine.


*Taxpaid wine premises.* Premises established under the provisions of this part on which taxpaid wine operations other than bottling are authorized to be conducted.


*This chapter.* Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, chapter I (27 CFR chapter I).


*To bond.* When used with reference to returns of wine, this phrase includes returns to premises established under the provisions of this part on which operations in untaxpaid wine are authorized to be conducted, even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 24.146(d), has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Total solids.* The degrees Brix of unfermented juice or dealcoholized wine.


*Treasury Account.* The Department of Treasury's General Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.


*United States wine.* Wine produced on bonded wine premises in the United States.


*Vinegar.* A wine or wine product not for beverage use produced in accordance with the provisions of this part and having not less than 4.0 grams (4.0 percent) of volatile acidity (calculated as acetic acid and exclusive of sulfur dioxide) per 100 milliliters of wine.


*Volatile fruit-flavor concentrate.* Any concentrate produced by any process which includes evaporations from any fruit mash or juice.


*Wine.* When used without qualification, the term includes every kind (class and type) of product produced on bonded wine premises from grapes, other fruit (including berries), or other suitable agricultural products and containing not more than 24 percent of alcohol by volume. The term includes all imitation, other than standard, or artificial wine and compounds sold as wine. A wine product containing less than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume is not taxable as wine when removed from the bonded wine premises.


*Wine premises.* Premises established under the provisions of this part on which wine operations or other operations are authorized to be conducted.


*Wine spirits.* Brandy or wine spirits authorized under 26 U.S.C. 5373 and § 24.225 for use in wine production.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31077, July 9, 1991; T.D. ATF-398, 63 FR 44783, Aug. 21, 1998; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. TTB-41, 71 FR 5602, Feb. 2, 2006; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16938, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D. TTB-89, 76 FR 3509, Jan. 20, 2011; T.D. TTB-94, 76 FR 52862, Aug. 24, 2011; T.D. TTB-130, 80 FR 55248, Sept. 15, 2015; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1123, Jan. 4, 2017; T.D. TTB-147, 82 FR 7662, Jan. 23, 2017; T.D. TTB-185, 87 FR 51896, Aug. 24, 2022; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87942, Nov. 6, 2024]




