# ยง 5001.127   Borrower ineligibility conditions.

A potential borrower is ineligible for a guaranteed loan under this part as identified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section. The borrower remains ineligible until the condition causing ineligibility is resolved.


(a) An entity is ineligible if any of the conditions identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section applies to the borrower, any owner with more than 20 percent ownership interest in the borrower (does not include passive investors), or any owner with control of the borrower. Entities with delinquent debt, as identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4), under a repayment plan are not eligible until the debt is paid in full.




(1) There is an outstanding judgment obtained by the U.S. in a Federal Court (other than U.S. Tax Court).


(2) Delinquency on the payment of Federal income taxes.


(3) Delinquency on Federal debt.


(4) Debarment or suspension from receiving Federal assistance. The lender is responsible for verification of the borrower's status. Verification can be done at *sam.gov.*

(b) An entity is ineligible if it derives more than 15 percent of its annual gross revenue (including any lease income from space or machines) from gambling activity, excluding State-authorized lottery proceeds or Tribal-authorized gaming proceeds, as approved by the Agency, conducted for the purpose of raising funds for the approved project.


(c) An entity is ineligible if it derives income from activities of a prurient sexual nature.


(d) An entity is ineligible if it derives income from illegal drugs, drug paraphernalia, or any other illegal product or activity as defined under Federal statute. A borrower that intends to lease space or enter into a power purchase agreement with a marijuana dispensary is not eligible given our borrower would be receiving income from the marijuana operation which is a violation of Federal laws as marijuana is a controlled substance under Federal law and subject to Federal prosecution under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812).




(e) An entity is ineligible under B&I projects if it is a charitable or fraternal organization. For purposes of this section, an organization that derives more than 10 percent of its annual gross revenue from tax deductible charitable donations, based on historical financial statements, is considered a charitable organization. Fees for services rendered or that are otherwise ineligible for deduction under the Internal Revenue Code are not considered tax deductible charitable donations.




(f) An entity is ineligible if its lender or any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower with management control or where the borrower or any of its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a five percent ownership interest in the lender. Any of the lender's directors, stockholders, or other owners that are officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners of the borrower without management control or ownership less than 5 percent must be recused from any decision-making process associated with the guaranteed loan.








(g) A borrower is ineligible if it is a lending institution, investment institution, or insurance company with exception of REAP or projects for a fund that invests primarily in cooperatives in accordance with ยง 5001.140, and NMTC projects in accordance with ยง 5001.141.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79715, Sept. 30, 2024]










