# ยง 410.1501   Data on unaccompanied children.

Care provider facilities are required to report information necessary for ORR to maintain data in accordance with this section. Data shall include:


(a) Biographical information, such as an unaccompanied child's name, gender, date of birth, country of birth, whether of indigenous origin, country of habitual residence, and, if voluntarily disclosed, self-identified LGBTQI+ status or identity;


(b) The date on which the unaccompanied child came into Federal custody by reason of the child's immigration status, including the date on which the unaccompanied child came into ORR custody;


(c) Information relating to the unaccompanied child's placement, removal, or release from each care provider facility in which the unaccompanied child has resided, including the date on which and to whom the child is transferred, removed, or released;


(d) In any case in which the unaccompanied child is placed in detention or released, an explanation relating to the detention or release;


(e) The disposition of any actions in which the unaccompanied child is the subject;


(f) Information gathered from assessments, evaluations, or reports of the child; and,


(g) Data necessary to evaluate and improve the care and services for unaccompanied children, including:


(1) Data relating to the administration of psychotropic medications. Such information shall include children's diagnoses, the prescribing physician's information, the name and dosage of the medication prescribed, documentation of informed consent, and any emergency administration of medication. Such data shall be compiled in a manner that enables ORR to track how psychotropic medications are administered across the network and in individual facilities.


(2) Data relating to the treatment of unaccompanied children with disabilities. Such information shall include whether an unaccompanied child has been identified as having a disability, the unaccompanied child's diagnosis, the unaccompanied child's need for reasonable modifications or other services, and information related to release planning. Such data shall be compiled in a manner that enables ORR ongoing oversight to ensure unaccompanied children with disabilities are receiving appropriate care while in ORR care across the network and in individual facilities.






