# § 13.1914   Off-road motor vehicle use in the Nabesna District.

(a) *What is the scope of this regulation?* The regulations contained in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section apply to the use of motor vehicles off roads within the boundaries of the Nabesna District within Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve. This section does not affect the use of snowmobiles or snowmachines.


(b) *What terms do I need to know?* The following definitions apply only to the regulations in this section:


*FEIS Wilderness Area* means an area of designated wilderness identified on the Upper Copper/Jacksina Wilderness map available at the Slana Ranger Station, the Main Park Visitor Center, the Tanada and Copper Lake trailheads, and on the park Web site.


*Frozen* means frost depth of 6 inches as measured with a soil probe and determined by the Superintendent.


*Improved* means a trail that is in a design-sustainable or maintainable condition as determined by the Superintendent.


*Nabesna District* means a designated area in the northern portion of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve as shown on a map available at the Slana Ranger Station, the Main Park Visitor Center, and on the park Web site.


*Recreational use* means the use of an off-road vehicle for any purpose other than for subsistence uses, which are defined in § 13.420, or access to inholdings in accordance with 43 CFR 36.10.


*Trail corridor* means an area extending 0.5 miles from either side of the centerline on the Black Mountain trails and portions of the Tanada Lake trail within the FEIS Wilderness Area.


(c) *Must I obtain a permit to operate an off-road vehicle for recreational use?* (1) You must obtain a permit before operating an off-road vehicle for recreational use. Permits may be obtained at the Slana Ranger Station in Slana or the Main Park Visitor Center in Copper Center.


(2) The Superintendent may issue permits for the recreational use of off-road vehicles on any of the following trails in the National Preserve:


(i) Suslota Trail.


(ii) Caribou Creek Trail.


(iii) Trail Creek Trail.


(iv) Lost Creek Trail.


(v) Soda Lake Trail.


(vi) Reeve Field Trail.


(3) Permits may be issued for the recreational use of off-road vehicles only on designated trails that are either frozen or improved. A map showing trails designated for recreational off-road vehicle use, and a current list of frozen and improved trails, are available at Slana Ranger Station, the Main Visitor Center, and on the park's Web site.


(4) You must obtain a permit for each off-road vehicle that you want to use for recreational purposes on designated off-road vehicle trails. The operator of the off-road vehicle must have the permit in his or her possession when the off-road vehicle is in use.


(5) Violating any term or condition of a permit is prohibited.


(6) The recreational use of off-road vehicles without a permit is prohibited.


(d) *May I operate an off-road vehicle for subsistence uses in the FEIS Wilderness Area?* (1) In the FEIS Wilderness Area, local rural residents may operate off-road vehicles for subsistence uses as defined by this part on the following trails:


(i) Black Mountain Trails.


(ii) Tanada Lake Trail.


(2) In the FEIS Wilderness Area, off-road vehicles may be operated off the designated trails only for the purpose of game retrieval in the designated trail corridors.


(3) All other areas of the FEIS Wilderness Area are closed to subsistence ORV use and local rural residents may not operate an off-road vehicle for subsistence uses outside of the trails and trail corridors identified in paragraphs (d)(1)-(2) of this section.


(4) Trails and trail corridors in the FEIS Wilderness Area, and the boundaries of the FEIS Wilderness Area, are shown on the Upper Copper/Jacksina Wilderness map available at the Slana Ranger Station, the Main Park Visitor Center, the Tanada and Copper Lake trailheads, and on the park Web site.


(e) *Are there limits on the types of off-road vehicles that may be operated off roads in the Nabesna District of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve?* The following types of vehicles may not be used off roads for recreational or subsistence uses in the Nabesna District of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve:


(1) Nodwells or other tracked rigs greater than 5.5 feet in width or 4,000 pounds curb weight.


(2) Street-legal highway vehicles.


(3) Custom 4x4 jeeps, SUVs, or trucks designed for off-road use.


(4) Original or modified “deuce and a half” cargo trucks.


(5) Dozers, skid-steer loaders, excavators, or other construction equipment.


(6) Motorcycles or dirt bikes.


(7) Log skidders.


(8) Wheeled vehicles (including all terrain vehicles, utility vehicles, and Argos) exceeding 1,500 pounds curb weight, not including trailers.



---

[N] [79 FR 49238, Aug. 20, 2014]




