# § 60.611a   What definitions must I know?

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act and subpart A of this part.


*Air Oxidation Reactor* means any device or process vessel in which one or more organic reactants are combined with air, or a combination of air and oxygen, to produce one or more organic compounds. Ammoxidation and oxychlorination reactions are included in this definition.


*Air Oxidation Reactor Recovery Train* means an individual recovery system receiving the vent stream from at least one air oxidation reactor, along with all air oxidation reactors feeding vent streams into this system.


*Air Oxidation Unit Process* means a unit process, including ammoxidation and oxychlorination unit process, that uses air, or a combination of air and oxygen, as an oxygen source in combination with one or more organic reactants to produce one or more organic compounds.


*Boilers* means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam.


*Breakthrough* means the time when the level of TOC, measured at the outlet of the first bed, has been detected is at the highest concentration allowed to be discharged from the adsorber system and indicates that the adsorber bed should be replaced.


*By Compound* means by individual stream components, not carbon equivalents.


*Closed vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device.


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device recording an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes.


*Flame zone* means the portion of the combustion chamber in a boiler or process heater occupied by the flame envelope.


*Flow indicator* means a device which indicates whether gas flow is present in a vent stream.


*Fuel gas* means gases that are combusted to derive useful work or heat.


*Fuel gas system* means the offsite and onsite piping and flow and pressure control system that gathers gaseous stream(s) generated by onsite operations, may blend them with other sources of gas, and transports the gaseous stream for use as fuel gas in combustion devices or in in-process combustion equipment such as furnaces and gas turbines either singly or in combination.


*Halogenated vent stream* means any vent stream determined to have a total concentration (by volume) of compounds containing halogens of 20 ppmv (by compound) or greater.


*Incinerator* means any enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds and does not extract energy in the form of steam or process heat.


*Pressure-assisted multi-point flare* means a flare system consisting of multiple flare burners in staged arrays whereby the vent stream pressure is used to promote mixing and smokeless operation at the flare burner tips. Pressure-assisted multi-point flares are designed for smokeless operation at velocities up to Mach = 1 conditions (*i.e.,* sonic conditions), can be elevated or at ground level, and typically use cross-lighting for flame propagation to combust any flare vent gases sent to a particular stage of flare burners.


*Primary fuel* means the fuel fired through a burner or a number of similar burners. The primary fuel provides the principal heat input to the device, and the amount of fuel is sufficient to sustain operation without the addition of other fuels.


*Process heater* means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except water that is heated to produce steam.


*Process unit* means equipment assembled and connected by pipes or ducts to produce, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals in § 60.617a. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient fuel or raw materials and sufficient product storage facilities.


*Product* means any compound or chemical listed in § 60.617a that is produced for sale as a final product as that chemical or is produced for use in a process that needs that chemical for the production of other chemicals in another facility. By-products, co-products, and intermediates are considered to be products.


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment, such as an absorber, condenser, and carbon adsorber, capable of and used to recover chemicals for use, reuse, or sale.


*Recovery system* means an individual recovery device or series of such devices applied to the same process stream.


*Relief valve* means a valve used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge. A relief valve discharge results from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause that requires immediate venting of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage.


*Total organic compounds (TOC)* means those compounds measured according to the procedures of Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) as specified in § 60.614a(b)(4) or the concentration of organic compounds measured according to the procedures in Method 21 or Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part.


*Vent stream* means any gas stream, containing nitrogen which was introduced as air to the air oxidation reactor, released to the atmosphere directly from any air oxidation reactor recovery train or indirectly, after diversion through other process equipment. The vent stream excludes equipment leaks including, but not limited to, pumps, compressors, and valves.






