# § 551.423   Time spent in training or attending a lecture, meeting, or conference.

(a) Time spent in training, whether or not it is under the purview of part 410 of this chapter, shall be administered as follows:


(1) Time spent in training during regular working hours shall be considered hours of work.


(2) Time spent in training outside regular working hours shall be considered hours of work if:


(i) The employee is directed to participate in the training by his or her employing agency; and


(ii) The purpose of the training is to improve the employee's performance of the duties and responsibilities of his or her current position.


(3) Time spent in apprenticeship or other entry level training, or internship or other career related work study training, or training under the Veterans Recruitment Act (5 CFR part 307) outside regular working hours shall not be considered hours of work, provided no productive work is performed during such periods, except as provided by § 410.402(b) of this chapter and paragraphs (f) and (g) of § 551.401.


(4) Time spent by an employee performing work for the agency during a period of training shall be considered hours of work.


(b) The following phrases contained in paragraph (a) of this section, are further clarified:


(1) *Directed to participate* means that the training is required by the agency and the employee's performance or continued retention in his or her current position will be adversely affected by nonenrollment in such training. The fact that an agency pays for all or part of the expenses of training does not create an entitlement to overtime hours of work unless participation in the training is directed by the agency.


(2) Training “to improve the employee's performance * * * of his or her current position” is distinguished from upward mobility training or developmental training to provide an employee the knowledge or skills needed for a subsequent position in the same career field.


(c) Time spent by an employee within an agency's allowance of preparatory time for attendance at training shall be considered hours of work if such preparatory time is:


(1) During an employee's regular working hours; or


(2) Outside the employee's regular working hours, and the purpose of the training meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(d) Time spent attending a lecture, meeting, or conference shall be considered hours of work if attendance is:


(1) During an employee's regular working hours; or


(2) Outside an employee's regular working hours, and


(i) The employee is directed by an agency to attend such an event; or


(ii) The employee performs work for the benefit of the agency during such attendance.



---

[N] [45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999; 70 FR 72068, Dec. 1, 2005]




