# ยง 17.549   Award procedures.

(a) *Priority.* In selecting individuals to participate in the RCSSP, VA will give priority to the following individuals:


(1) An individual who agrees to be employed by Vet Centers located in communities that are:


(i) Designated as a medically underserved population under section 330(b)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3)); and


(ii) In States with a per capita population of more than five percent veterans according to the National Center for Veterans Analysis and Statistics and the Bureau of the Census.


(2) A veteran.


(b) *Placement criteria.* When determining which Vet Center a scholarship recipient will be placed to carry out their service obligation, VA will consider the priority criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and the size and professional makeup of the current Vet Center staff to ensure that the Vet Center staff has health care professionals that are licensed to supervise participants of the RCSSP from the same health care profession as required by VA professional qualification standards and a requirement of some State licensure boards for some disciplines for each of the four professions.


(c) *Amount of funds.* VA will provide a scholarship to individuals who participate in the RCSSP to cover the actual costs of such individuals obtaining a terminal degree in psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, or professional mental health counseling for a maximum of two years. If a participant completes their terminal degree in less than two years, the period of obligated service remains unchanged.


(1) Social work, marriage and family therapy, and professional mental health counseling are master level programs that require approximately a two-year period for achieving the terminal degree. VA will fund RCSSP social work, marriage and family therapy, and professional mental health counseling participants for a maximum of two years.


(2) Psychology is a doctoral level program requiring approximately five years for completion of the terminal academic degree. In addition, psychology graduates are required to undergo a one-year internship at either an American Psychology Association (APA) or Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) accredited internship program prior to qualifying for full time VA employment. VA will fund psychology participants for the last two years of their five-year academic training to obtain a terminal doctorate degree. VA will not provide funding for the one-year APA or CPA internship under the RCSSP.


(d) *Payment of funds.* All such payments to scholarship participants are exempt from Federal taxation. The payments will consist of the actual cost of:


(1) Tuition and required fees;


(2) Other educational expenses, including books and laboratory equipment; and


(3) A monthly stipend, for the duration of the scholarship award. The Secretary may determine the amount of the stipend paid to participants, but that amount may not exceed the maximum amount provided for in 38 U.S.C. 7613(b).






