# § 660.4   Usual and accustomed fishing areas for Pacific Coast treaty Indian tribes.

(a) The Pacific Coast treaty Indian tribes' usual and accustomed (U&A) fishing areas within the EEZ are set out below in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section. Boundaries of a tribe's fishing area may be revised as ordered by a Federal court.


(1) *Makah.* The area north of 48°02.25′ N. lat. (Norwegian Memorial) and east of 125°44′ W. long.


(2) *Quileute.* The area commencing at Cape Alava, located at 48°10′00″ N lat., 124°43′56.9″ W long.; then proceeding west approximately forty nautical miles at that latitude to a northwestern point located at 48°10′00″ N lat., 125°44′00″ W long.; then proceeding in a southeasterly direction mirroring the coastline at a distance no farther than forty nautical miles from the mainland Pacific coast shoreline at any line of latitude, to a southwestern point at 47°31′42″ N lat., 125°20′26″ W long.; then proceeding east along that line of latitude to the Pacific coast shoreline at 47°31′42″ N lat., 124°21′9.0″ W long.


(3) *Hoh.* A polygon commencing at the Pacific coast shoreline near the mouth of the Quillayute River, located at latitude 47°54′30″ north, longitude 124°38′31″ west; then proceeding west approximately forty nautical miles at that latitude to a northwestern point located at latitude 47°54′30″ north, longitude 125°38′18″ west; then proceeding in a southeasterly direction mirroring the coastline at a distance no farther than forty nautical miles from the mainland Pacific coast shoreline, to a point located at latitude 47°31′42″ north, longitude 125°20′26″ west, then proceeding east along that line of latitude approximately ten nautical miles to a point located at latitude 47°31′42″ north, longitude 125°5′48″ west, then proceeding in a southeasterly direction mirroring the coastline at a distance no farther than thirty nautical miles from the mainland Pacific coast shoreline to a point located at latitude 47°21′00″ north, longitude 125°2′52″ west; then proceeding east along that line of latitude to the Pacific coast shoreline near the mouth of the Quinault River, located at latitude 47°21′00″ north, longitude 124°18′8″ west.


(4) *Quinault.* The area commencing at the Pacific coast shoreline near Destruction Island, located at 47°40′06″ N lat., 124°23′51.362″ W long.; then proceeding west approximately thirty nautical miles at that latitude to a northwestern point located at 47°40′06″ N lat., 125°08′30″ W long.; then proceeding in a southeasterly direction mirroring the coastline no farther than thirty nautical miles from the mainland Pacific coast shoreline at any line of latitude, to a southwestern point at 46°53′18″ N lat., 124°53′53″ W long.; then proceeding east along that line of latitude to the Pacific coast shoreline at 46°53′18″ N lat., 124°7′36.6″ W long.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 36807, June 8, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 53828, Oct. 25, 2018; 89 FR 59678, July 23, 2024]






