# § 170.520   Application.

(a) *ONC-ACB application.* Applicants must include the following information in an application for ONC-ACB status and submit it to the National Coordinator for the application to be considered complete.


(1) The type of authorization sought pursuant to § 170.510. For authorization to perform Health IT Module certification, applicants must indicate the specific type(s) of Health IT Module(s) they seek authorization to certify. If qualified, applicants will only be granted authorization to certify the type(s) of Health IT Module(s) for which they seek authorization.


(2) General identifying, information including:


(i) Name, address, city, state, zip code, and Web site of applicant; and


(ii) Designation of an authorized representative, including name, title, phone number, and email address of the person who will serve as the applicant's point of contact.


(3) Documentation that confirms that the applicant has been accredited to ISO/IEC 17065 (for availability, see § 170.599), with an appropriate scope, by any accreditation body that is a signatory to the Multilateral Recognition Arrangement (MLA) with the International Accreditation Forum (IAF).


(4) An agreement, properly executed by the applicant's authorized representative, that it will adhere to the Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ACBs.


(b) *ONC-ATL application.* Applicants must include the following information in an application for ONC-ATL status and submit it to the National Coordinator for the application to be considered complete.


(1) The authorization scope sought pursuant to § 170.511.


(2) General identifying, information including:


(i) Name, address, city, state, zip code, and Web site of applicant; and


(ii) Designation of an authorized representative, including name, title, phone number, and email address of the person who will serve as the applicant's point of contact.


(3) Documentation that confirms that the applicant has been accredited by NVLAP to the ONC Health IT Certification Program, including to ISO/IEC 17025 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 170.599).


(4) An agreement, properly executed by the applicant's authorized representative, that it will adhere to the Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ATLs.



---

[N] [81 FR 72464, Oct. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 25950, May 1, 2020]




