# § 7.2   Definitions.

*Act* means the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 


*Administrator* means the Administrator of General Services. 


*Advisory committee* means any committee, board, commission, council, conference, panel, task force, or similar group, or any subcommittee or other subgroup thereof, that is established by statute for the purpose of providing advice or recommendations on issues of policy to an official, branch, or agency of the Federal Government, or that is established or utilized by the President or any agency official to obtain advice or recommendations on issues or policies that fall within the scope of his or her responsibilities, except that the term “advisory committee” does not include the following advisory meetings or groups: 


(1) Any group composed wholly of full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government; 


(2) Any group specifically exempted from the Act or these regulations by an Act of Congress; 


(3) Any local civic group whose primary function is that of rendering a public service with respect to a Federal program, or any State or local committee, council, board, commission, or similar group established to advise or make recommendations to any State or local government unit or an official thereof; 


(4) Any group that performs primarily operational functions specifically provided by law. Operational functions are those specifically authorized by statute or Presidential directive, such as making or implementing Government decisions or policy, as long as the group does not become primarily advisory in nature; 


(5) Any meeting initiated by the President or one or more Federal employees for the purpose of obtaining advice or recommendations from one individual; 


(6) Any meeting between an NRC employee with a non-governmental individual or group where advice or recommendations are provided by the attendees on an individual basis and are not sought from the group as a whole; 


(7) Any meeting with a committee or group created by a non-Federal entity that is not managed or controlled by the President or a Federal employee; 


(8) Any meeting of two or more advisory committee members convened solely to: 


(i) Discuss administrative matters relating to the operation of their advisory committee; 


(ii) Receive administrative information from a Federal employee; 


(iii) Gather information or conduct research for a chartered advisory committee to analyze relevant issues and facts for their advisory committee; or 


(iv) Draft proposed position papers for deliberation by their advisory committee; 


(9) Any meeting with a group initiated by the President or by one or more Federal employees for the purpose of exchanging facts or information; 


(10) Any meeting attended only by full-time or permanent part-time officers or employees of the Federal Government and elected officers of State, local, and Tribal governments (or their designated employees with authority to act on their own behalf), acting in their official capacities. However, the purpose of the meeting must be solely to exchange views, information, or advice relating to the management or implementation of Federal programs established pursuant to statute, that explicitly or inherently share intergovernmental responsibilities or administration; 


(11) Any meeting of an NRC contractor, applicant, or licensee with an NRC employee to discuss specific matters involving the solicitation, issuance, or implementation of a contract or the Commission's effort to ensure compliance with its regulations; and 


(12) Any meeting of a subcommittee or other subgroup of an advisory committee where the subgroup's recommendations will be reviewed by its parent advisory committee. 


*Agency* means an agency of the Government of the United States as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(1). 


*Commission* means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of five members, or a quorum thereof, sitting as a body, as provided by section 201 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5841, (88 Stat. 1242). 


*Committee Management Secretariat* means the organization established within the General Services Administration, pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act, which is responsible for all matters relating to advisory committees, and carries out the responsibilities of the Administrator of the General Services Administration under the Act and Executive Order 12024 (42 FR 61445; December 1, 1977). 


*Committee meeting* means any gathering of advisory committee members (whether in person, by telephone, or through electronic means) held with the approval of an agency for the purpose of deliberating on the substantive matters upon which the advisory committee provides advice or recommendations. 


*Committee member* means an individual who is appointed to serve on an advisory committee and has the full right and obligation to participate in the activities of the committee, including voting on committee recommendations. 


*Designated Federal Officer* means a government employee appointed, pursuant to § 7.11(a), to chair or attend each meeting of an NRC advisory committee to which he or she is assigned. 


*Discretionary advisory committee* means any advisory committee that is established, but not required to be established, under the authority of an agency head, and its establishment or termination is within the legal discretion of an agency head. 


*GSA* means the General Services Administration. 


*Non-discretionary advisory committee* means any advisory committee either required by statute or Presidential directive. A non-discretionary committee required by statute generally is identified specifically in a statute by name, purpose, or functions and its establishment is mandated. 


*NRC* means the agency established by title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5801 (88 Stat. 1233), and known as the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


*NRC Advisory Committee Management Officer* means the individual appointed, pursuant to § 7.10(a), to supervise and control the establishment and management of NRC advisory committees. 


*NRC Public Document Room* means the Public Document Room maintained by the NRC at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738. 


*Presidential advisory committee* means an advisory committee established by statute or directed by the President to advise the President. 


*Staff member* means any individual who serves in a support capacity to an advisory committee. 


*Subcommittee* means a subgroup of an advisory committee, whether or not its members are drawn in whole or in part from the parent advisory committee. 


*Utilized committee* means a committee or group not established by the Federal Government, but whose operations are managed or controlled by a Federal agency.



---

[N] [67 FR 79839, Dec. 31, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 74978, Dec. 1, 2015]




