# § 751.407   PIP (3:1).

(a) *Prohibitions*—(1) *General prohibition on processing and distribution in commerce.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distributing in commerce of PIP (3:1), including in PIP (3:1)-containing products or articles after March 8, 2021. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, the prohibitions and restrictions of this subpart do not apply to products or articles containing PIP (3:1) at concentrations less than 0.1 percent by weight, if the PIP (3:1) was not intentionally added to the product or article.




(2) *Phase-in prohibitions for specific uses of PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products and articles.* Except for the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section or where another phase-in prohibition with longer-term deadlines exists as described in this section:




(i) After January 6, 2025, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distributing in commerce of PIP (3:1) for use in adhesives and sealants, PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in adhesives and sealants, and PIP (3:1)-containing adhesives and sealants.


(ii) After January 1, 2022, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distributing in commerce of PIP (3:1) for use in photographic printing articles and PIP (3:1)-containing photographic printing articles.


(iii) After October 31, 2024, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution of PIP (3:1) for use in articles and all processing of PIP (3:1)-containing articles. After October 31, 2026, all persons are prohibited from distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing articles.




(iv) After November 21, 2039, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in lubricants and greases and PIP (3:1)-containing lubricants and grease.


(v) After November 21, 2039, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) for use in parts for new motor vehicles, including heavy motorized machinery, and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in parts for new motor vehicles, including heavy motorized machinery, and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing parts for such new vehicles.


(vi) After November 19, 2054, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in replacement parts for motor vehicles, including heavy motorized machinery, and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing replacement parts for such vehicles.


(vii) After November 19, 2054, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in parts for new aerospace vehicles, and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing parts for such vehicles.


(viii) After the end of the aerospace vehicles service lives, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in replacement parts for aerospace vehicles and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing replacement parts for such vehicles.


(ix) After November 19, 2029, all persons are prohibited from processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in marine antifouling coating products that are registered under the Federal, Insecticide, Fungicide, Rodenticide Act and that meet U.S. Department of Defense specification requirements.


(x) After November 20, 2034, all persons are prohibited from processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in parts for new manufacturing equipment, including in the semiconductor industry, for new heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, refrigeration, and water-heating equipment, new power generating equipment, new laboratory equipment, new commercial electronic equipment, and the manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing parts for those equipment.


(xi) After the end of the manufacturing and laboratory equipment service lives, all persons are prohibited from processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in replacement parts and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing replacement parts for manufacturing equipment and laboratory equipment, respectively. After November 19, 2049 all persons are prohibited from processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in replacement parts and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing replacement parts for heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, refrigeration, and water-heating equipment, for power generating equipment, and for commercial electronic equipment. After November 19, 2031 all persons are prohibited from processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in replacement parts and manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1)-containing replacement parts for consumer electronic equipment.










(b) *Exclusions.* The following activities are not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) Processing and distribution in commerce of:


(i) PIP (3:1) for use in hydraulic fluids either for the aviation industry or to meet military specifications for safety and performance where no alternative chemical is available that meets U.S. Department of Defense specification requirements, PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in such hydraulic fluids, and PIP (3:1)-containing hydraulic fluids either for the aviation industry or to meet military specifications for safety and performance where no alternative chemical is available that meets U.S. Department of Defense specification requirements.


(ii) PIP (3:1) for use in lubricants and greases for aerospace use and turbine engines, PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in lubricants and greases for aerospace use and turbine engines, and PIP (3:1)-containing lubricants and greases for aerospace use and turbine engines;




(iii) PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in circuit boards and wire harnesses, including but not limited to terminal and fuse covers, cable sleeves, casings, connectors, and tapes, and PIP (3:1)-containing circuit boards and wire harnesses including but not limited to terminal and fuse covers, cable sleeves, casings, connectors, and tapes.




(iv) PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products for use as an intermediate in a closed system to produce cyanoacrylate adhesives;


(v) PIP (3:1) for use in specialized engine air filters for locomotive and marine applications, PIP (3:1) containing products for use in specialized engine air filters for locomotive and marine applications, and PIP (3:1)-containing specialized engine air filters for locomotive and marine applications;


(vi) Plastic for recycling from products or articles containing PIP (3:1), where no new PIP (3:1) is added during the recycling process; and


(vii) Finished products or articles made of plastic recycled or reused from products or articles containing PIP (3:1), where no new PIP (3:1) was added during the production of the products or articles made of recycled plastic.




(viii) Articles that contain PIP (3:1), and where PIP (3:1) has not been newly added, for the purpose of repair or maintenance.


(2) Distribution in commerce of:


(i) PIP (3:1)-containing parts for vehicles meeting the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, for equipment meeting requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(x) through (xi) of this section, and the vehicles and equipment that contain such parts.


(ii) [Reserved]






(c) *Prohibition on releases to water.* After March 8, 2021, all persons are prohibited from releasing PIP (3:1) to water during manufacturing, processing and distribution in commerce of PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1) containing products, and all persons are required to follow all applicable regulations and best management practices for preventing the release of PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products to water during commercial use.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* (1) After March 8, 2021, persons who manufacture, process, or distribute in commerce PIP (3:1) or PIP (3:1)-containing products or articles must maintain ordinary business records, such as invoices and bills-of-lading, related to compliance with the prohibitions, restrictions, and other provisions of this section. These records must be maintained for a period of five years from the date the record is generated.


(2) These records must include a statement that the PIP (3:1), or the PIP (3:1)-containing products or articles, are in compliance with 40 CFR 751.407(a).


(3) These records must be made available to EPA upon request.




(4) The recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (d) of this section do not apply to the activities described in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section. The recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (d) of this section also do not apply to PIP (3:1)-containing articles until October 31, 2024.


(e) *Downstream notification.* (1) Each person who manufactures PIP (3:1) for any use after March 8, 2021 must, prior to or concurrent with the shipment, notify persons to whom PIP (3:1) is shipped, in writing, of the restrictions described in this subpart.


(2) Each person who processes or distributes in commerce PIP (3:1) or PIP (3:1)-containing products for any use after July 6, 2021 must, prior to or concurrent with the shipment, notify persons to whom PIP (3:1) is shipped, in writing, of the restrictions described in this subpart.


(3) Downstream notification must occur by inserting the text in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section in the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) by February 19, 2025, or by including on the label of any PIP (3:1) or PIP (3:1)-containing product by May 19, 2026, the label language in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section:


(i) *SDS Section 1(c).*

(ii) *SDS Section 15.*

(iii) *Labeling.*

(4) Any downstream notification that occurs under paragraph (e) of this section between February 19, 2025 and May 19, 2026, must include a safety data sheet with the language in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section unless distributing products with labels reflecting the language in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section.




(5) The downstream notification requirements in paragraph (e) of this section do not apply to the activities described in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.




(f) *Workplace protection*—(1) *Applicability.* After January 21, 2025, the provisions of this paragraph (f) apply to workplaces engaged in *the manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products and articles*, except for those identified in paragraph (f)(7) of this section.


(2) *Regulated areas.* Owners or operators must establish and maintain regulated areas as defined in § 751.403.


(i) The owner or operator must limit access to regulated areas to authorized persons.


(ii) The owner or operator must demarcate regulated areas from the rest of the workplace in a manner that adequately establishes and alerts persons to the boundaries of the regulated area and minimizes the number of authorized persons exposed to PIP (3:1) within the regulated area.


(iii) The owner or operator must ensure each potentially exposed person is provided with a respirator according to the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section and must ensure that all potentially exposed persons within the regulated area are using the provided respirators whenever exposures to airborne concentrations of PIP (3:1) can reasonably be expected.


(iv) The owner or operator must ensure that while persons are wearing respirators in the regulated area, they do not engage in activities that interfere with respirator seal or performance.


(v) The owner or operator must ensure that, within a regulated area, persons do not engage in non-work activities that may increase exposure to PIP (3:1).


(3) *Respiratory protection.* The owner or operator must provide respiratory protection to all potentially exposed persons in the regulated area as demarcated in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section, and according to the provisions outlined in 29 CFR 1910.134(b), (c)(1), (3) and (4), (d)(1)(iv), (f), and (g) through (l) and as specified in this paragraph (f)(3) for potentially exposed persons to PIP (3:1) during expected time of use.


(i) For purposes of this paragraph (f)(3), cross-referenced provisions in 29 CFR 1910.134 applying to an “employee” apply equally to potentially exposed persons and cross-referenced provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators. Other terms in cross-referenced provisions in 29 CFR 1910.134 that are defined in 29 CFR 1910.134(b) have the meaning assigned to them in 29 CFR 190.134(b).


(ii) Owners and operators must develop and administer a written respiratory protection program consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(c)(1), (3) and (4).


(iii) Owners and operators must select respiratory protection that properly fits each affected person and communicate respirator selections to each affected person consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(f).


(iv) Owners and operators must provide, ensure use of, and maintain (in a sanitary, reliable, and undamaged condition) respiratory protection that is of safe design and construction for the applicable condition of use consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(g) through (j).


(v) Prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a job involving potential exposure to PIP (3:1) owners and operators must provide training to all persons required to use respiratory protection consistent with 29 CFR 1910.134(k).


(vi) Owners and operators must retrain all persons required to use PPE at least annually, or whenever the owner or operator has reason to believe that a previously trained person does not have the required understanding and skill to properly use PPE, or when changes in the workplace or in PPE to be used render the previous training obsolete.


(vii) The type of respiratory protection that the owner or operator must select and provide to potentially exposed persons must be at least as protective as a NIOSH-approved APF 10 air-purifying half mask respirator except for those uses identified in paragraphs (f)(3)(viii) and (ix) of this section.


(viii) The type of respiratory protection that owners or operators must select and provide to potentially exposed persons must be at least as protective as a NIOSH-approved N95 respirator (APF 10) for the manufacturing and processing of PIP (3:1), and PIP (3:1)-containing products for use in new and replacement parts for motor vehicles, including heavy machinery, and aerospace vehicles.


(ix) The type of respiratory protection that owners or operators must select and provide to potentially exposed persons must be at least as protective as a NIOSH-approved APF 50 purifying respirator for use as an intermediate to produce cyanoacrylate adhesives when PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products are not contained in a closed system (*i.e.,* except as described in paragraph (f)(7)(iii) of this section).


(x) Owners and operators must select and provide respirators as required in paragraph (f)(3) of this section consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(d)(1)(iv), and with consideration of workplace and user factors that affect respirator performance and reliability.


(xi) Owners and operators must ensure that respirators are used in compliance with the terms of the respirator's NIOSH certification.


(xii) Owners and operators must conduct regular evaluations of the workplace, including consultations with potentially exposed persons using respiratory protection, consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(l), to ensure that the provisions of the written respiratory protection program required under paragraph (f)(3) of this section are being effectively implemented.


(xiii) The respiratory protection requirements in this paragraph (f)(3) represent the minimum respiratory protection requirements, such that any respirator affording a higher degree of protection than the required respirator may be used.


(4) *Dermal protection.* (i) Owners or operators must require the donning of gloves that are chemically resistant to PIP (3:1) with activity-specific training where dermal contact with PIP (3:1) is reasonably expected. Owners or operators must minimize and protect potentially exposed persons from dermal exposure in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132.


(ii) Owners or operators must supply and require the donning of dermal PPE that separates and provides a barrier to prevent direct dermal contact with PIP (3:1) in the specific work area where it is selected for use, selected in accordance with this paragraph (f)(4) and provided in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132(h), to each person who is reasonably likely to be dermally exposed in the work area through direct dermal contact with PIP (3:1) For the purposes of this paragraph (f)(4), provisions in 29 CFR 1910.132(h) applying to an “employee” also apply equally to potentially exposed persons, and provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators.


(iii) Dermal PPE that is of safe design and construction for the work to be performed must be provided, used, and maintained in a sanitary, reliable, and undamaged condition. Owners and operators must select PPE that properly fits each affected person and communicate PPE selections to each affected person.


(iv) Owners or operators must provide training in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132(f) to all persons required to use dermal protection prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a job involving exposure to PIP (3:1). For the purposes of this paragraph (f)(4), provisions in 29 CFR 1910.132(f) applying to an “employee” also apply equally to potentially exposed persons, and provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators.


(v) Owners and operators must retrain each person required to use dermal protection at least annually or whenever the owner or operator has reason to believe that a previously trained person does not have the required understanding and skill to properly use dermal protection, or when changes in the workplace or in dermal protection to be used render the previous training obsolete.


(5) *Engineering controls.* Owners or operators manufacturing cyanoacrylate adhesives using PIP (3:1) as an intermediate processing aid must use the following engineering controls:


(i) Must take place in a closed loop system, and


(ii) General and local exhaust ventilation must be provided.


(6) *Workplace protection records.* (i) Owners or operators subject to requirements described in this section must retain records of:


(A) The name, workplace address, work shift, job classification, and work area of each person reasonably likely to directly handle PIP (3:1) or handle equipment or materials on which PIP (3:1) may be present, and the type of PPE selected to be worn by each of these persons;


(B) The basis for the regulated area as defined in § 751.403, including monitoring data and documentation of any controls or combination of controls that have reduced exposure to where airborne concentrations of PIP (3:1) can no longer reasonably be expected resulting in a smaller or no regulated area being established;


(C) The type of PPE selected by the owner or operator for use by each of these persons, the respiratory protection used by each potentially exposed person and PPE program implementation, including fit-testing and training;


(D) The basis for PPE selection (*e.g.,* demonstration based on permeation testing or manufacturer specifications that each item of PPE selected provides an impervious barrier to prevent exposure during expected duration and conditions of exposure, including the likely combinations of chemical substances to which the PPE may be exposed in the work area);


(E) Appropriately sized PPE and training on proper application, wear, and removal of PPE, and proper care/disposal of PPE; and


(F) For owners and operators using PIP (3:1) as an intermediate processing aid in the manufacturing of cyanoacrylate adhesives, compliance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section.


(ii) These records must be maintained for a period of five years from the date the record is generated.


(iii) These records must be made available to EPA upon request.


(iv) The owner or operator must provide potentially exposed persons and their designated representative an opportunity to observe records related to the basis of the PPE or another control measure selection, including potential monitoring results that is representative of the potentially exposed person's exposure.


(7) *Exclusions.* The following are not subject to the workplace protection requirements of paragraph (f) of this section:


(i) Import of PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products and articles.


(ii) Processing of PIP (3:1)-containing adhesives and sealants, specialized engine filters for locomotive and marine applications, and the products or articles described in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.


(iii) Processing of PIP (3:1)-containing new and replacement parts to which PIP (3:1) has been added for motor and aerospace vehicles and for manufacturing, HVAC, refrigeration and water heating equipment, electric and electronic equipment, and power generating equipment and the motor and aerospace vehicles, manufacturing, HVAC, refrigeration and water heating equipment, electric and electronic equipment, and power generating equipment that contain new and replacement parts to which PIP (3:1) has been added.


(iv) Processing of PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products for use as an intermediate to produce cyanoacrylate adhesives when PIP (3:1) and PIP (3:1)-containing products are contained in a closed system as described in paragraph (f)(6) of this section are not subject to the provisions of paragraphs (f)(3) and (4) of this section.











---

[N] [86 FR 909, Jan. 6, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 51832, Sept. 17, 2021; 87 FR 12886, Mar. 8, 2022; 89 FR 91516, Nov. 19, 2024]




