# § 721.4484   Halogenated indane (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a halogenated indane (PMN P-94-351) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to P-94-351 after incorporation into a plastic, resin matrix, or pelletized so humans are not reasonally likely to be exposed.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements during manufacture as specified in § 721.63 (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements during manufacture as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 63737, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 27694, May 21, 1997]




