# § 63.7885   What are the general standards I must meet for my affected process vents?

(a) For the process vents that comprise the affected source designated under § 63.7882, you must select and meet the requirements under one of the options specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) For each affected process vent, except as exempted under paragraph (c) of this section, you must meet one of the options in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) You control HAP emissions from the affected process vents according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7890 through 63.7893. 


(2) You determine for the remediation material treated or managed by the process vented through the affected process vents that the average total volatile organic hazardous air pollutant (VOHAP) concentration, as defined in § 63.7957, of this material is less than 10 parts per million by weight (ppmw). Determination of the VOHAP concentration is made using the procedures specified in § 63.7943. 


(3) If the process vent is also subject to another subpart under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63, you control emissions of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart from the affected process vent in compliance with the standards specified in the applicable subpart. This means you are complying with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards under the other subpart (*e.g.,* you install and operate the required air pollution controls or have implemented the required work practice to reduce HAP emissions to levels specified by the applicable subpart). This provision does not apply to any exemption of the affected source from the emissions limitations and work practice standards allowed by the other applicable subpart. 


(c) A process vent that meets the exemption requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(1) The process vent stream exiting the process vent meets the conditions in either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) The process vent stream flow rate is less than 0.005 cubic meters per minute (m
3/min) at standard conditions (as defined in 40 CFR 63.2); or 


(ii) The process vent stream flow rate is less than 6.0 m
3/min at standard conditions (as defined in 40 CFR 63.2) and the total concentration of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart is less than 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv). 


(2) You must demonstrate that the process vent stream meets the applicable exemption conditions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section using the procedures specified in § 63.694(m). You must prepare and maintain documentation at your facility to support your determination of the process vent stream flow rate. This documentation must include identification of each process vent exempted under this paragraph and the test results used to determine the process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration, as applicable to the exemption conditions for your process vent. You must perform a new determination of the process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration, as applicable to the exemption conditions for your process vent, whenever changes to operation of the unit on which the process vent is used could cause the process vent stream conditions to exceed the maximum limits of the exemption. 




