# § 1041.9   Disclosure of payment transfer attempts.

(a) *General form of disclosures*—(1) *Clear and conspicuous.* Disclosures required by this section must be clear and conspicuous. Disclosures required by this section may contain commonly accepted or readily understandable abbreviations.


(2) *In writing or electronic delivery.* Disclosures required by this section must be provided in writing or, so long as the requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section are satisfied, through electronic delivery. The disclosures must be provided in a form that can be viewed on paper or a screen, as applicable. This paragraph (a)(2) is not satisfied by a disclosure provided orally or through a recorded message.


(3) *Retainable.* Disclosures required by this section must be provided in a retainable form, except for electronic short notices delivered by mobile application or text message under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.


(4) *Electronic delivery.* Disclosures required by this section may be provided through electronic delivery if the following consent requirements are satisfied:


(i) *Consumer consent*—(A) *General.* Disclosures required by this section may be provided through electronic delivery if the consumer affirmatively consents in writing or electronically to the particular electronic delivery method.


(B) *Email option required.* To obtain valid consumer consent to electronic delivery under this paragraph, a lender must provide the consumer with the option to select email as the method of electronic delivery, separate and apart from any other electronic delivery methods such as mobile application or text message.


(ii) *Subsequent loss of consent.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, a lender must not provide disclosures required by this section through a method of electronic delivery if:


(A) The consumer revokes consent to receive disclosures through that delivery method; or


(B) The lender receives notification that the consumer is unable to receive disclosures through that delivery method at the address or number used.


(5) *Segregation requirements for notices.* All notices required by this section must be segregated from all other written or provided materials and contain only the information required by this section, other than information necessary for product identification, branding, and navigation. Segregated additional content that is not required by this section must not be displayed above, below, or around the required content.


(6) *Machine readable text in notices provided through electronic delivery.* If provided through electronic delivery, the payment notice required by paragraph (b) of this section and the consumer rights notice required by paragraph (c) of this section must use machine readable text that is accessible via both web browsers and screen readers.


(7) *Model forms*—(i) *Payment notice.* The content, order, and format of the payment notice required by paragraph (b) of this section must be substantially similar to Model Forms A-3 through A-4 in appendix A to this part.


(ii) *Consumer rights notice.* The content, order, and format of the consumer rights notice required by paragraph (c) of this section must be substantially similar to Model Form A-5 in appendix A to this part.


(iii) *Electronic short notice.* The content, order, and format of the electronic short notice required by paragraph (b) of this section must be substantially similar to Model Clauses A-6 and A-7 in appendix A to this part. The content, order, and format of the electronic short notice required by paragraph (c) of this section must be substantially similar to Model Clause A-8 in appendix A to this part.


(8) *Foreign language disclosures.* Disclosures required under this section may be made in a language other than English, provided that the disclosures are made available in English upon the consumer's request.


(b) *Payment notice*—(1) *General.* Prior to initiating the first payment withdrawal or an unusual withdrawal from a consumer's account, a lender must provide to the consumer a payment notice in accordance with the requirements in this paragraph (b) as applicable.


(i) *First payment withdrawal* means the first payment transfer scheduled to be initiated by a lender for a particular covered loan, not including a single immediate payment transfer initiated at the consumer's request as defined in § 1041.8(a)(2).


(ii) *Unusual withdrawal* means a payment transfer that meets one or more of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.


(iii) *Exceptions.* The payment notice need not be provided when the lender initiates:


(A) The initial payment transfer from a consumer's account after obtaining consumer authorization pursuant to § 1041.8(c), regardless of whether any of the conditions in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section apply; or


(B) A single immediate payment transfer initiated at the consumer's request in accordance with § 1041.8(a)(2).


(2) *First payment withdrawal notice*—(i) *Timing*—(A) *Mail.* If the lender provides the first payment withdrawal notice by mail, the lender must mail the notice no earlier than when the lender obtains payment authorization and no later than six business days prior to initiating the transfer.


(B) *Electronic delivery.* (*1*) If the lender provides the first payment withdrawal notice through electronic delivery, the lender must send the notice no earlier than when the lender obtains payment authorization and no later than three business days prior to initiating the transfer.


(*2*) If, after providing the first payment withdrawal notice through electronic delivery pursuant to the timing requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the lender loses the consumer's consent to receive the notice through a particular electronic delivery method according to paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the lender must provide notice of any future unusual withdrawal, if applicable, through alternate means.


(C) *In person.* If the lender provides the first payment withdrawal notice in person, the lender must provide the notice no earlier than when the lender obtains payment authorization and no later than three business days prior to initiating the transfer.


(ii) *Content requirements.* The notice must contain the following information and statements, as applicable, using language substantially similar to the language set forth in Model Form A-3 in appendix A to this part:


(A) *Identifying statement.* The statement, “Upcoming Withdrawal Notice,” using that phrase, and, in the same statement, the name of the lender providing the notice.


(B) *Transfer terms*—(*1*) *Date.* Date that the lender will initiate the transfer.


(*2*) *Amount.* Dollar amount of the transfer.


(*3*) *Consumer account.* Sufficient information to permit the consumer to identify the account from which the funds will be transferred. The lender must not provide the complete account number of the consumer, but may use a truncated version similar to Model Form A-3 in appendix A to this part.


(*4*) *Loan identification information.* Sufficient information to permit the consumer to identify the covered loan associated with the transfer.


(*5*) *Payment channel.* Payment channel of the transfer.


(*6*) *Check number.* If the transfer will be initiated by a signature or paper check, remotely created check (as defined in Regulation CC, 12 CFR 229.2(fff)), or remotely created payment order (as defined in 16 CFR 310.2(cc)), the check number associated with the transfer.


(C) *Payment breakdown.* In a tabular form:


(*1*) *Payment breakdown heading.* A heading with the statement “Payment Breakdown,” using that phrase.


(*2*) *Principal.* The amount of the payment that will be applied to principal.


(*3*) *Interest.* The amount of the payment that will be applied to accrued interest on the loan.


(*4*) *Fees.* If applicable, the amount of the payment that will be applied to fees.


(*5*) *Other charges.* If applicable, the amount of the payment that will be applied to other charges.


(*6*) *Amount.* The statement “Total Payment Amount,” using that phrase, and the total dollar amount of the payment as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(*7*) *Explanation of interest-only or negatively amortizing payment.* If applicable, a statement explaining that the payment will not reduce principal, using the applicable phrase “When you make this payment, your principal balance will stay the same and you will not be closer to paying off your loan” or “When you make this payment, your principal balance will increase and you will not be closer to paying off your loan.”


(D) *Lender name and contact information.* Name of the lender, the name under which the transfer will be initiated (if different from the consumer-facing name of the lender), and two different forms of lender contact information that may be used by the consumer to obtain information about the consumer's loan.


(3) *Unusual withdrawal notice*—(i) *Timing*—(A) *Mail.* If the lender provides the unusual withdrawal notice by mail, the lender must mail the notice no earlier than 10 business days and no later than six business days prior to initiating the transfer.


(B) *Electronic delivery.* (*1*) If the lender provides the unusual withdrawal notice through electronic delivery, the lender must send the notice no earlier than seven business days and no later than three business days prior to initiating the transfer.


(*2*) If, after providing the unusual withdrawal notice through electronic delivery pursuant to the timing requirements in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, the lender loses the consumer's consent to receive the notice through a particular electronic delivery method according to paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the lender must provide notice of any future unusual withdrawal attempt, if applicable, through alternate means.


(C) *In person.* If the lender provides the unusual withdrawal notice in person, the lender must provide the notice no earlier than seven business days and no later than three business days prior to initiating the transfer.


(D) *Exception for open-end credit.* If the unusual withdrawal notice is for open-end credit as defined in § 1041.2(a)(16), the lender may provide the unusual withdrawal notice in conjunction with the periodic statement required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.7(b), in accordance with the timing requirements of that section.


(ii) *Content requirements.* The unusual withdrawal notice must contain the following information and statements, as applicable, using language substantially similar to the language set forth in Model Form A-4 in appendix A to this part:


(A) *Identifying statement.* The statement, “Alert: Unusual Withdrawal,” using that phrase, and, in the same statement, the name of the lender that is providing the notice.


(B) *Basic payment information.* The content required for the first withdrawal notice under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(B) through (D) of this section.


(C) *Description of unusual withdrawal.* The following content, as applicable, in a form substantially similar to the form in Model Form A-4 in appendix A to this part:


(*1*) *Varying amount*—(*i*) *General.* If the amount of a transfer will vary in amount from the regularly scheduled payment amount, a statement that the transfer will be for a larger or smaller amount than the regularly scheduled payment amount, as applicable.


(*ii*) *Open-end credit.* If the payment transfer is for open-end credit as defined in § 1041.2(a)(16), the varying amount content is required only if the amount deviates from the scheduled minimum payment due as disclosed in the periodic statement required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.7(b).


(*2*) *Date other than date of regularly scheduled payment.* If the payment transfer date is not a date on which a regularly scheduled payment is due under the terms of the loan agreement, a statement that the transfer will be initiated on a date other than the date of a regularly scheduled payment.


(*3*) *Different payment channel.* If the payment channel will differ from the payment channel of the transfer directly preceding it, a statement that the transfer will be initiated through a different payment channel and a statement of the payment channel used for the prior transfer.


(*4*) *For purpose of re-initiating returned transfer.* If the transfer is for the purpose of re-initiating a returned transfer, a statement that the lender is re-initiating a returned transfer, a statement of the date and amount of the previous unsuccessful attempt, and a statement of the reason for the return.


(4) *Electronic delivery*—(i) *General.* When the consumer has consented to receive disclosures through electronic delivery, the lender may provide the applicable payment notice required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section through electronic delivery only if it also provides an electronic short notice, except for email delivery as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Electronic short notice*—(A) *General content.* The electronic short notice required by this paragraph (b) must contain the following information and statements, as applicable, in a form substantially similar to Model Clause A-6 in appendix A to this part:


(*1*) *Identifying statement,* as required under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section;


(*2*) *Transfer terms*—(*i*) *Date,* as required under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) and (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section;


(*ii*) *Amount,* as required under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) and (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section;


(*iii*) *Consumer account,* as required and limited under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*) and (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; and


(*3*) *Web site URL.* When the full notice is being provided through a linked URL rather than as a PDF attachment, the unique URL of a Web site that the consumer may use to access the full payment notice required by paragraph (b) of this section.


(B) *Additional content requirements.* If the transfer meets any of the conditions for unusual attempts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, the electronic short notice must also contain the following information and statements, as applicable, using language substantially similar to the language in Model Clause A-7 in appendix A to this part:


(*1*) *Varying amount,* as defined under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C)(*1*) of this section;


(*2*) *Date other than due date of regularly scheduled payment,* as defined under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C)(*2*) of this section; and


(*3*) *Different payment channel,* as defined under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C)(*3*) of this section.


(iii) *Email delivery.* When the consumer has consented to receive disclosures through electronic delivery, and the method of electronic delivery is email, the lender may either deliver the full notice required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section in the body of the email or deliver the full notice as a linked URL Web page or PDF attachment along with the electronic short notice as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(c) *Consumer rights notice*—(1) *General.* After a lender initiates two consecutive failed payment transfers from a consumer's account as described in § 1041.8(b), the lender must provide to the consumer a consumer rights notice in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section.


(2) *Timing.* The lender must send the notice no later than three business days after it receives information that the second consecutive attempt has failed.


(3) *Content requirements.* The notice must contain the following information and statements, using language substantially similar to the language set forth in Model Form A-5 in appendix A to this part:


(i) *Identifying statement.* A statement that the lender, identified by name, is no longer permitted to withdraw loan payments from the consumer's account.


(ii) *Last two attempts were returned.* A statement that the lender's last two attempts to withdraw payment from the consumer's account were returned due to non-sufficient funds, or, if applicable to payments initiated by the consumer's account-holding institution, caused the account to go into overdraft status.


(iii) *Consumer account.* Sufficient information to permit the consumer to identify the account from which the unsuccessful payment attempts were made. The lender must not provide the complete account number of the consumer, but may use a truncated version similar to Model Form A-5 in appendix A to this part.


(iv) *Loan identification information.* Sufficient information to permit the consumer to identify any covered loans associated with the unsuccessful payment attempts.


(v) *Statement of Federal law prohibition.* A statement, using that phrase, that in order to protect the consumer's account, Federal law prohibits the lender from initiating further payment transfers without the consumer's permission.


(vi) *Contact about choices.* A statement that the lender may be in contact with the consumer about payment choices going forward.


(vii) *Previous unsuccessful payment attempts.* In a tabular form:


(A) *Previous payment attempts heading.* A heading with the statement “previous payment attempts.”


(B) *Payment due date.* The scheduled due date of each previous unsuccessful payment transfer attempted by the lender.


(C) *Date of attempt.* The date of each previous unsuccessful payment transfer initiated by the lender.


(D) *Amount.* The amount of each previous unsuccessful payment transfer initiated by the lender.


(E) *Fees.* The fees charged by the lender for each unsuccessful payment attempt, if applicable, with an indication that these fees were charged by the lender.


(viii) *CFPB information.* A statement, using that phrase, that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created this notice, a statement that the CFPB is a Federal government agency, and the URL to *www.cfpb.gov/payday.* This statement must be the last piece of information provided in the notice.


(4) *Electronic delivery*—(i) *General.* When the consumer has consented to receive disclosures through electronic delivery, the lender may provide the consumer rights notice required by paragraph (c) of this section through electronic delivery only if it also provides an electronic short notice, except for email delivery as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Electronic short notice*—(A) *Content.* The notice must contain the following information and statements, as applicable, using language substantially similar to the language set forth in Model Clause A-8 in appendix A to this part:


(*1*) *Identifying statement.* As required under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section;


(*2*) *Last two attempts were returned.* As required under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section;


(*3*) *Consumer account.* As required and limited under paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section;


(*4*) *Statement of Federal law prohibition.* As required under paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section; and


(*5*) *Web site URL.* When the full notice is being provided through a linked URL rather than as a PDF attachment, the unique URL of a Web site that the consumer may use to access the full consumer rights notice required by paragraph (c) of this section.


(B) [Reserved]


(iii) *Email delivery.* When the consumer has consented to receive disclosures through electronic delivery, and the method of electronic delivery is email, the lender may either deliver the full notice required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section in the body of the email or deliver the full notice as a linked URL Web page or PDF attachment along with the electronic short notice as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 54871, Nov. 17, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 27929, June 17, 2019]




