# § 1250.72   How do I file an appeal?

(a) You may submit your appeal via mail or electronically. All appeals must be in writing and received by NARA within 90 calendar days from the date of our determination letter.


(1) For appeals submitted via mail, you should mark both your letter and envelope with the words “FOIA Appeal,” and include either your tracking number or a copy of your initial request and our determination letter.


(i) If NARA's Inspector General denied your request, send your appeal to the Archivist of the United States; (ATTN: FOIA Appeal Staff); Room 4200, National Archives and Records Administration; 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, Maryland 20740-6001.


(ii) Send all other appeals for denial of access to Federal records to the Deputy Archivist of the United States; (ATTN: FOIA Appeal Staff); Room 4200; National Archives and Records Administration; 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, Maryland 20740-6001.


(iii) For Presidential records, send appeals to the appropriate Presidential library director at the address listed in 36 CFR 1253.3.


(2) For all appeals submitted electronically, except those regarding Presidential records, send an email to *FOIA@nara.gov.* For Presidential records, electronic appeals must contain all the information listed in § 1250.72 and be sent to the email address of the appropriate Presidential library. These email addresses are listed in 36 CFR 1253.3. The subject line of the email should read “PRA/FOIA appeal.”


(b) In your appeal correspondence, clearly identify NARA's initial determination letter (including the assigned request number, if known) from which you are appealing. Please explain why you believe our response does not meet the requirements of the FOIA, including why we should release the records, grant your fee waiver request, or expedite the processing of your request. If we were not able to find the records you wanted, explain why you believe NARA's search was inadequate. If we denied you access to records and told you that those records were not subject to FOIA, please explain why you believe the records are subject to FOIA.



---

[N] [79 FR 56504, Sept. 22, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 8902, Feb. 1, 2017]




