# § 3430.1005   Funding restrictions.

(a) *Facility costs.* Funds made available under the Sun Grant Program shall not be used for the construction of a new building or facility or the acquisition, expansion, remodeling, or alteration of an existing building or facility (including site grading and improvement, and architect fees).


(b) *Indirect cost provisions for regional competitive research, extension, and education grant programs.* Funds provided by NIFA to the Centers and Subcenter for the regional competitive grants program under § 3430.1004(a)(1) may not be used for the indirect costs of awarding the competitive grants. However, up to 4 percent of the total funds provided by NIFA to the Centers and the Subcenter under § 3430.1004 for the Sun Grant Program may be budgeted for administrative costs incurred in awarding the competitive grants.


(c) *Indirect cost provisions for research, extension, and education activities conducted at the Centers and Subcenter.* Subject to § 3430.54, indirect costs are allowable for the funds provided by NIFA to the Centers and the Subcenter for the research, extension, and education programs under § 3430.1004(a)(2).


(d) *Required allocations.* Each Center and Subcenter must fund subgrants in a proportion that is a minimum 30 percent for conducting multi-institutional and multistate research, extension, and education programs on technology development; and a minimum 30 percent for conducting integrated multi-institutional and multistate research, extension, and education programs on technology implementation. Each Sun Grant Center must clearly demonstrate a common procedure for ensuring the required allocations are met, and for maintaining documentation of these required percentages for audit purposes.



---

[N] [75 FR 70580, Nov. 18, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 6418, Feb. 8, 2016]




