# ยง 73.1350   Mica-based pearlescent pigments.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive is formed by depositing titanium and/or iron salts onto mica, followed by heating to produce one of the following combinations: Titanium dioxide on mica; iron oxide on mica; titanium dioxide and iron oxide on mica. Mica used to manufacture the color additive shall conform in identity to the requirements of ยง 73.1496(a)(1).


(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with mica-based pearlescent pigments may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* Mica-based pearlescent pigments shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(1) Lead (as Pb), not more than 4 parts per million (ppm).


(2) Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 ppm.


(3) Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 ppm.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Mica-based pearlescent pigments may be safely used to color ingested drugs in amounts up to 3 percent, by weight, of the final drug product. The maximum amount of iron oxide to be used in producing said pigments is not to exceed 55 percent, by weight, in the finished pigment.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.



---

[N] [70 FR 42273, July 22, 2005. Redesignated at 72 FR 10357, Mar. 8, 2007]




