# § 1.6052-1   Information returns regarding payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance.

(a) *Requirement of reporting*—(1) *In general.* Every employer, who during any calendar year provides any one of his employees remuneration for services in the form of group-term life insurance on the life of such employee any part of the cost of which is to be included in such employee's gross income as provided in section 79(a), shall make a separate return on Form W-2 with respect to each such employee for such year which includes the following information:


(i) Name, address, and identifying number of the employer;


(ii) Name, address, and social security number of the employee; and


(iii) Total amount includible in the employee's gross income by reason of the provisions of section 79(a), computed as if each employee reported his income on the basis of a calendar year (determined as if the employer making such return is the only employer paying the employee remuneration in the form of group-term life insurance on his life which is includible in his gross income under section 79(a)).


(2) *Definitions.* Terms used in subparagraph (a)(1) of this section and in section 79 and the regulations thereunder have the meaning ascribed to them in section 79 and the regulations thereunder.


(b) *Time and place for filing*—(1) *Time for filing*—(i) *General rule.* In a case where an employer must file Forms W-3 and W-2 under this section and also under § 31.6011(a)-4 or § 31.6011(a)-5 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations), the time for filing such forms under this section shall be the same as the time (including extensions thereof) for filing such forms under § 31.6011(a)-4 or § 31.6011(a)-5.


(ii) *Exception.* In a case where an employer is not required to file Forms W-3 and W-2 under § 31.6011(a)-4 or § 31.6011(a)-5 of this chapter, returns on Forms W-3 and W-2 required under paragraph (a) of this section for any calendar year shall be filed on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the following year. 


(iii) *Cross reference.* For extensions of time for filing returns, see section 6081 and the regulations thereunder.


(2) *Place for filing.* The returns on Forms W-3 and W-2 required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed pursuant to the rules contained in § 31.6091-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations), relating to the place for filing certain returns.


(c) *Special rule for calendar years before 1972.* For calendar years before 1972, the provisions of this section will be deemed to have been complied with if the returns for such years were filed in accordance with the provisions of this section in effect prior to August 3, 1973, or with the instructions applicable to the appropriate forms.


(d) *Last day for filing return.* For provisions relating to the time for performance of an act when the last day prescribed for performance falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, see § 301.7503-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).


(e) *Penalty.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to file the information returns required by this section, see section 6652 and the regulations thereunder.



---

[N] [T.D. 6888, 31 FR 9205, July 6, 1966, as amended by T.D. 7284, 38 FR 20828, Aug. 3, 1973; T.D. 7580, 43 FR 60160, Dec. 26, 1978; T.D. 7623, 44 FR 28800, May 17, 1979; T.D. 8895, 65 FR 50408, Aug. 18, 2000]




