# § 165.522   Safety Zone; Hurricanes, Tropical Storms, and other Storms with High Winds; Captain of the Port Zone Sector Delaware Bay.

(a) *Regulated areas.* All navigable waters, as defined in 33 CFR 2.36, within the Captain of the Port Zone (COTP), Sector Delaware Bay, as described in 33 CFR 3.25-05, or some portion of those waters, as specified and communicated under paragraph (c)(6) of this section. Port conditions and safety zone activation may vary for different portions of the COTP Zone at different times, based on storm conditions and its projected track.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Captain of the Port* means Commander, Coast Guard Sector Delaware Bay.


(2) *Representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer or civilian employee who has been authorized to act on the behalf of the Captain of the Port.


(3) *Port Condition WHISKEY* means a condition set by the COTP when National Weather Service (NWS) weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP Zone within 72 hours.


(4) *Port Condition X-RAY* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 48 hours.


(5) *Port Condition YANKEE* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 24 hours.


(6) *Port Condition ZULU* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 12 hours.


(7) *Port Condition RECOVERY* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are no longer predicted for the regulated area. This port condition remains in effect until the regulated areas are deemed safe and are reopened to normal operations.


(c) *Regulations*—(1) *Port Condition WHISKEY.* All vessels must exercise due diligence in preparation for potential storm impacts. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 gross tons (GT) must make plans to depart no later than setting of Port Condition YANKEE unless authorized by the COTP. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition WHISKEY, based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(2) *Port Condition X-RAY.* All vessels must ensure that potential flying debris and hazardous materials are removed, and that loose cargo and cargo equipment is secured. Vessels at facilities must carefully monitor their moorings and cargo operations. Additional anchor(s) must be made ready to let go, and preparations must be made to have a continuous anchor watch during the storm. Engine(s) must be made immediately available for maneuvering. Also, vessels must maintain a continuous listening watch on VHF Channel 16. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 GT must prepare to depart the port and anchorages within the affected regulated area. These vessels shall depart immediately upon the setting of Port Condition YANKEE. During this condition, slow-moving vessels may be ordered to depart to ensure safe avoidance of the incoming storm. Vessels that are unable to depart the port must contact the COTP to receive permission to remain in port. Vessels with COTP's permission to remain in port must implement their pre-approved mooring arrangement. The COTP may require additional precautions to ensure the safety of the ports and waterways. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition X-RAY based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(3) *Port Condition YANKEE.* Affected ports are closed to all inbound vessel traffic. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 GT must depart the regulated area. The COTP may require additional precautions to ensure the safety of the ports and waterways. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area within the Delaware Bay COTP Zone and actions to be taken under Port Condition YANKEE based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(4) *Port Condition ZULU.* When Port Condition ZULU is declared, cargo operations are suspended, except final preparations that are expressly permitted by the COTP as necessary to ensure the safety of the ports and facilities. Other than vessels designated by the COTP, no vessels may enter, transit, move, or anchor within the regulated area. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition ZULU based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(5) *Port Condition RECOVERY.* The COTP Zone, or portions of it designated as regulated areas, are closed to all vessels. Based on assessments of channel conditions, navigability concerns, and hazards to navigation, the COTP may permit vessel movements with restrictions. Restrictions may include, but are not limited to, preventing, or delaying vessel movements, imposing draft, speed, size, horsepower, or daylight restrictions, or directing the use of specific routes. Vessels permitted to transit the regulated area shall comply with the lawful orders or directions given by the COTP or representative.


(6) *Regulated Area Notice.* The Coast Guard will provide notice, via Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Marine Safety Information Bulletins, or by on-scene representatives, of where, within the COTP Zone, a declared Port Condition is to be in effect.


(7) *Exception.* This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [USCG-20224-0251, 89 FR 73292, Sept. 10, 2024]




