# ยง 622.105   Conduct of investigation.

(a) *Review of order.* Any person who is compelled or requested to furnish testimony, documentary evidence, or other information with respect to any matter under formal investigation shall upon request be shown the order initiating such investigation.


(b) *Right to counsel.* Any person who, in a formal investigation, is compelled to appear and testify or who appears and testifies by request or permission of the Board may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel. The right to be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel shall mean the right of a person testifying to have an attorney present at all times while testifying and to have this attorney:


(1) Advise such person before, during and after the conclusion of testimony;


(2) Question such person briefly at the conclusion of testimony to clarify any of the answers given; and


(3) Make summary notes during the testimony solely for the use of such person.


(c) *Appearance.* The provisions of ยง 622.3 are applicable to this subpart.


(d) *Exclusion.* (1) Any person who has given or will give testimony, and counsel representing such person, may be excluded from the taking of testimony of any other witness in the discretion of the designated FCA representative conducting the investigation.


(2) The designated FCA representative conducting the investigation shall report to the Board any instances where any person has been guilty of dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous, contumacious or other unethical or improper conduct during the course of the proceeding or any other instance involving a violation of these rules. The Board may thereupon take such action as the circumstances may warrant, including exclusion of the offending individual or individual from participation in the proceeding.




