# § 60.1365   What records must I keep for continuously monitored pollutants or parameters?

You must keep records of eight items: 


(a) *Records of monitoring data.* Document six parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems: 


(1) All 6-minute average levels of opacity. 


(2) All 1-hour average concentrations of sulfur dioxide emissions. 


(3) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, all 1-hour average concentrations of nitrogen oxides emissions. 


(4) All 1-hour average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions. 


(5) All 1-hour average load levels of your municipal waste combustion unit. 


(6) All 1-hour average flue gas temperatures at the inlet of the particulate matter control device. 


(b) *Records of average concentrations and percent reductions.* Document five parameters: 


(1) All 24-hour daily block geometric average concentrations of sulfur dioxide emissions or average percent reductions of sulfur dioxide emissions. 


(2) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, all 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentrations of nitrogen oxides emissions. 


(3) All 4-hour block or 24-hour daily block arithmetic average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions. 


(4) All 4-hour block arithmetic average load levels of your municipal waste combustion unit. 


(5) All 4-hour block arithmetic average flue gas temperatures at the inlet of the particulate matter control device. 


(c) *Records of exceedances.* Document three items: 


(1) Calendar dates whenever any of the five pollutant or parameter levels recorded in paragraph (b) of this section or the opacity level recorded in paragraph (a)(1) of this section did not meet the emission limits or operating levels specified in this subpart. 


(2) Reasons you exceeded the applicable emission limits or operating levels. 


(3) Corrective actions you took, or are taking, to meet the emission limits or operating levels. 


(d) *Records of minimum data.* Document three items: 


(1) Calendar dates for which you did not collect the minimum amount of data required under §§ 60.1260 and 60.1335. Record the dates for five types of pollutants and parameters: 


(i) Sulfur dioxide emissions. 


(ii) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, nitrogen oxides emissions.


(iii) Carbon monoxide emissions. 


(iv) Load levels of your municipal waste combustion unit. 


(v) Temperatures of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter control device. 


(2) Reasons you did not collect the minimum data. 


(3) Corrective actions you took, or are taking, to obtain the required amount of data. 


(e) *Records of exclusions.* Document each time you have excluded data from your calculation of averages for any of the following five pollutants or parameters and the reasons the data were excluded: 


(1) Sulfur dioxide emissions. 


(2) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, nitrogen oxides emissions. 


(3) Carbon monoxide emissions. 


(4) Load levels of your municipal waste combustion unit. 


(5) Temperatures of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter control device. 


(f) *Records of drift and accuracy.* Document the results of your daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations according to Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part. Keep the records for the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides (Class I municipal waste combustion units only), and carbon monoxide continuous emissions monitoring systems. 


(g) *Records of the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide.* If you choose to monitor carbon dioxide instead of oxygen as a diluent gas, document the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide, as specified in § 60.1255. 


(h) *Records of calendar dates.* Include the calendar date on each record. 




