# ยง 93.200   Definitions.

Wherever in this subpart the following terms are used, unless the context otherwise requires, they shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this title to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A, and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter, and to perform functions required by cooperative state-federal disease control and eradication programs. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, to whom authority has been or may be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS or Service). 


*Animals.* Cattle, sheep, goats, other ruminants, swine, horses, asses, mules, zebras, dogs, and poultry.


*Commercial poultry.* Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys (including eggs for hatching) which are imported for resale, breeding, public display, or any other commercial purpose. 


*Communicable disease.* Any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease of domestic livestock, poultry or other animals. 


*Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). 


*Fever tick.* Boophilus annulatus, including, but not limited to, the varieties Americana and Australia. 


*Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI).* Highly pathogenic avian influenza is defined as follows:


(1) Any influenza virus that kills at least 75 percent of eight 4- to 6-week-old susceptible chickens within 10 days following intravenous inoculation with 0.2 mL of a 1:10 dilution of a bacteria-free, infectious allantoic fluid or inoculation of 10 susceptible 4- to 8-week-old chickens resulting in an intravenous pathogenicity index (IVPI) of greater than 1.2;


(2) Any H5 or H7 virus that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition, but has an amino acid sequence at the haemagglutinin cleavage site that is compatible with highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses; or


(3) Any influenza virus that is not an H5 or H7 subtype and that kills one to five out of eight inoculated chickens and grows in cell culture in the absence of trypsin within 10 days.


*Immediate slaughter.* Consignment directly from the port of entry to a recognized slaughtering establishment 
1 and slaughter thereat within two weeks from the date of entry. 


*Inspector.* An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service authorized to perform duties required under this subpart. 


*Operator.* For the purpose of ยง 93.209, any person operating an approved quarantine facility.


*Performing or theatrical poultry.* Poultry which are to be used in shows, theatrical acts or performances only. 


*Port veterinarian.* A veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to perform duties required under this part at a port of entry. 


*Poultry.* Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys (including eggs for hatching). 


*Quarantine facility.* A USDA facility, or a private facility approved by APHIS, for the secure housing of imported birds, poultry, or other animals for specified periods.


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.)


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*Swine.* The domestic hog and all varieties of wild hogs. 


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other Territories and Possessions of the United States. 


*Veterinary services.* The Veterinary Services unit of the Department. 



---

[N] [55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56015, Oct. 28, 1997; 79 FR 71005, Dec. 1, 2014]




