# § 1140.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Accessory* means any product that is intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the human consumption of a tobacco product; does not contain tobacco and is not made or derived from tobacco; and meets either of the following:


(1) Is not intended or reasonably expected to affect or alter the performance, composition, constituents, or characteristics of a tobacco product; or


(2) Is intended or reasonably expected to affect or maintain the performance, composition, constituents, or characteristics of a tobacco product but


(i) Solely controls moisture and/or temperature of a stored product; or


(ii) Solely provides an external heat source to initiate but not maintain combustion of a tobacco product.


*Cigarette.* (1) Means a product that:


(i) Is a tobacco product and


(ii) Meets the definition of the term “cigarette” in section 3(1) of the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act; and


(2) Includes tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product, which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette or as roll-your-own tobacco.


*Cigarette tobacco* means any product that consists of loose tobacco that is intended for use by consumers in a cigarette. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements applicable to cigarettes under this chapter also apply to cigarette tobacco.


*Component* or *part* means any software or assembly of materials intended or reasonably expected:


(1) To alter or affect the tobacco product's performance, composition, constituents, or characteristics; or


(2) To be used with or for the human consumption of a tobacco product. Component or part excludes anything that is an accessory of a tobacco product.


*Covered tobacco product* means any tobacco product deemed to be subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act under § 1100.2 of this chapter, but excludes any component or part that is not made or derived from tobacco.


*Distributor* means any person who furthers the distribution of a tobacco product, whether domestic or imported, at any point from the original place of manufacture to the person who sells or distributes the product to individuals for personal consumption. Common carriers are not considered distributors for the purposes of this part.


*Importer* means any person who imports any tobacco product that is intended for sale or distribution to consumers in the United States.


*Manufacturer* means any person, including any repacker and/or relabeler, who manufactures, fabricates, assembles, processes, or labels a finished tobacco product.


*Nicotine* means the chemical substance named 3-(1-Methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)pyridine or C[10]H[14]N[2], including any salt or complex of nicotine.


*Package* or *packaging* means a pack, box, carton, or container of any kind or, if no other container, any wrapping (including cellophane) in which a tobacco product is offered for sale, sold, or otherwise distributed to consumers.


*Point of sale* means any location at which a consumer can purchase or otherwise obtain tobacco products for personal consumption.


*Retailer* means any person who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal consumption, or who operates a facility where vending machines or self-service displays are permitted under this part.


*Roll-your-own tobacco* means any tobacco product that, because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes.


*Smokeless tobacco* means any tobacco product that consists of cut, ground, powdered, or leaf tobacco and that is intended to be placed in the oral or nasal cavity.


*Tobacco product,* as stated in section 201(rr) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in relevant part:


(1) Means any product made or derived from tobacco, or containing nicotine from any source, that is intended for human consumption, including any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product (except for raw materials other than tobacco used in manufacturing a component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product); and


(2) Does not mean an article that is a drug under section 201(g)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; a device under section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; a combination product described in section 503(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or a food under 201(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act if such article contains no nicotine or no more than trace amounts of naturally occurring nicotine.



---

[N] [81 FR 29102, May 10, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 16553, Mar. 20, 2023]




