# § 1212.2   Definitions.

For purposes of subpart B of this part, the term:


*Consultant* means a person who works directly on matters for, or on behalf of, a regulated entity or the Office of Finance.


*Director* means the Director of FHFA or his or her designee.


*Employee* means an officer or employee of FHFA, including a special Government employee.


*Federal Home Loan Bank* or *Bank* means a Bank established under the Federal Home Loan Bank Act; the term “Federal Home Loan Banks” means, collectively, all the Federal Home Loan Banks.


*Office of Finance* means the Office of Finance of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, or any successor thereto.


*Regulated entity* means the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof, any Federal Home Loan Bank; the term “regulated entities” means, collectively, the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof, and the Federal Home Loan Banks.


*Safety and Soundness Act* means the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended by the Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, Division A of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, Public Law No. 110-289, 122 Stat. 2654 (2008).


*Senior examiner* means an employee of FHFA who has been:


(1) Authorized by FHFA to conduct examinations or inspections on behalf of FHFA;


(2) Assigned continuing, broad and lead responsibility for examining a regulated entity or the Office of Finance; and


(3) Assigned responsibilities for examining, inspecting and supervising the regulated entity or the Office of Finance that—


(i) Represents a substantial portion of the employee's assigned responsibilities; and


(ii) Requires the employee to interact routinely with officers or employees of the regulated entity or the Office of Finance.




