# ยง 791.1   Purpose.

(a) This part sets forth the procedures by which the Secretary may:


(1) Determine whether any acquisition, importation, transfer, installation, dealing in, or use of any information and communications technology or service, including but not limited to connected software applications, (ICTS Transaction) that has been designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of foreign adversaries poses certain undue or unacceptable risks as identified in the Executive Order 13873. For purposes of these regulations, the Secretary will consider information and communications technology and services (ICTS) to be designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by a person owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign adversary where such a person operates, manages, maintains, repairs, updates, or services the ICTS;




(2) Issue a determination to prohibit an ICTS Transaction;


(3) Direct the timing and manner of the cessation of the ICTS Transaction;


(4) Consider factors that may mitigate the risks posed by the ICTS Transaction.


(b) The Secretary will evaluate ICTS Transactions under this rule, which include, but are not limited to, classes of transactions, on a case-by-case basis. The Secretary, in consultation with appropriate agency heads specified in Executive Order 13873 and other relevant governmental bodies, as appropriate, shall make an Initial Determination as to whether to prohibit a given ICTS Transaction or propose mitigation measures, by which the ICTS Transaction may be permitted. Parties may submit information in response to theInitial Determination, including a response to the Initial Determination and any supporting materials and/or proposed measures to remediate or mitigate the risks identified in the Initial Determination as posed by the ICTS Transaction at issue. Upon consideration of the parties' submissions, the Secretary will issue a Final Determination prohibiting the transaction, not prohibiting the transaction, or permitting the transaction subject to the adoption of measures determined by the Secretary to sufficiently mitigate the risks associated with the ICTS Transaction. The Secretary shall also engage in coordination and information sharing, as appropriate, with international partners on the application of this part.



---

[N] [88 FR 39357, June 16, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 96892, Dec. 6, 2024]








