# ยง 505.2   Definitions.

(a) *Access Appeal Committee (AAC).* The body established by and responsible to the Broadcasting Board for reviewing appeals made by individuals to amend records held by the Agency. 


(b) *Agency, BBG, our, we* or *us.* The BBG, its offices, divisions, branches and its worldwide operations. 


(c) *Amend.* To make a correction to or expunge any portion of a record about an individual which that individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete. 


(d) *Individual* or *you.* A citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. 


(e) *Maintain.* Collect, use, store, disseminate or any combination of these record keeping functions; exercise of control over and hence responsibility and accountability for systems of records. 


(f) *Record.* Any information maintained by the Agency about an individual that can be reproduced, including finger or voice prints and photographs, and which is retrieved by that particular individual's name or personal identifier, such as a social security number. 


(g) *Routine use.* With respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose, which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. The common ordinary purposes for which records are used and all of the proper and necessary uses even if any such uses occur infrequently. 


(h) *Statistical record.* A record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided in 12 U.S.C.8. 


(i) *System of records.* A group of records under the maintenance and control of the Agency from which information is retrieved by the name or personal identifier of the individual. 


(j) *Personnel record.* Any information about an individual that is maintained in a system of records by the Agency that is needed for personnel management or processes such as staffing, employee development, retirement, grievances and appeals. 


(k) *Worldwide Operations.* Any of the foreign service establishments of the Agency. 




