# ยง 73.71   Bidding.

(a) *Who may participate in the auctions.* Any person may participate in the auctions by submitting a bid or bids pursuant to this section.


(b) *Bidding.* Sealed bids shall be sent to the Administrator using the Bid Form for SO_2_ Allowance Auctions, or some method of electronic transfer if the Administrator, following public notice, so requires or permits at some future time. The bid form shall state:


(1) The number of allowances sought and the price;


(2) Whether spot or advance allowances are sought;


(3) Allowance Tracking System account number;


(4) Whether the bidder is willing to purchase fewer allowances than the number of allowances stated in (b)(1) of this section if the full amount is not available. Where the bidder holds no Allowance Tracking System account, a New Account/New Authorized Account Representative Form must accompany the bid. New account information shall include at a minimum: Name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, organization or company name (if applicable), type of organization, and the authorized account representative for purposes of the account.


(c) *Payment.* Each bid must include a certified check or letter of credit for the total bid price, or may specify a method of electronic transfer or other method of payment, if the Administrator, following public notice, so requires or permits at some future time. The certified check should be made payable to the U.S. EPA. To meet the requirements of this paragraph bidders must submit a completed SO_2_ Allowance Auction Letter of Credit Form. If such Form is used, the Administrator must receive full payment for allowances awarded at the auctions, either by wire transfer or certified check, no later than 2 business days after the results of the auction are announced in the Allowance Tracking System.


(d) *Bid amount and number of bids.* Bidders may request any number of allowances up to the amount of allowances available for auction. Any person may submit more than one bid in each auction, provided that each bid meets the requirements of this section.


(e) *Submission of bids.* The Administrator will publish in the _Federal Register_ and in the Commerce Business Daily the address of where to submit bids and payment not later than 60 calendar days before each auction.


(f) *Deadline for bids.* All bids must be revised by the Administrator no later than 3 business days prior to the date of the auctions.




