# § 1.857-11   Non-REIT earnings and profits.

(a) *Applicability of section 857(a)(3)(A).* A real estate investment trust does not satisfy section 857(a)(3)(A) unless—


(1) Part II of subchapter M applied to the trust for all its taxable years beginning after February 28, 1986; and


(2) For each corporation to whose earnings and profits the trust succeeded by the operation of section 381, part II of subchapter M applied for all the corporation's taxable years beginning after February 28, 1986.


(b) *Applicability of section 857(a)(3)(B); in general.* A real estate investment trust does not satisfy section 857(a)(3)(B) unless, as of the close of the taxable year, it has no earnings and profits other than earnings and profits that—


(1) Were earned by a corporation in a year for which part II of subchapter M applied to the corporation and, at all times thereafter, were the earnings and profits of a corporation to which part II of subchapter M applied; or


(2) By the operation of section 381 pursuant to a transaction that occurred before December 22, 1992, became the earnings and profits of a corporation to which part II of subchapter M applied and, at all times thereafter, were the earnings and profits of a corporation to which part II of subchapter M applied.


(c) *Distribution procedures similar to those for regulated investment companies to apply.* Distribution procedures similar to those in section 852(e) for regulated investment companies apply to non-REIT earnings and profits of real estate investment trusts.


(d) *Effective date.* This regulation is effective for taxable years ending on or after December 22, 1992.


(e) For treatment of net built-in gain assets of a C corporation that become assets of a REIT, see § 1.337(d)-5T.



---

[N] [T.D. 8483, 58 FR 43798, Aug. 18, 1993, as amended by T.D. 8872, 65 FR 5777, Feb. 7, 2000]




