# § 107.705   Registrations, reports, and applications for approval.

(a) A person filing a registration, report, or application for an approval, or a renewal or modification of an approval subject to the provisions of this subpart must—


(1) File the registration, report, or application with the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety (Attention: Approvals, PHH-32), Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Alternatively, the document with any attached supporting documentation in an appropriate format may be filed by facsimile (fax) to: (202) 366-3753 or (202) 366-3308 or by electronic mail (e-mail) to: *approvals@dot.gov.*

(2) Identify the section of the chapter under which the registration, report, or application is made;


(3) If a report is required by an approval, a registration or a special permit, identify the approval, registration or special permit number;


(4) Provide the name, street and mailing addresses, e-mail address optional, and telephone number of the person on whose behalf the registration, report, or application is made and, if different, the person making the filing;


(5) If the person on whose behalf the filing is made is not a resident of the United States, provide a designation of agent for service in accordance with § 105.40;


(6) Provide a description of the activity for which the registration or report is required; and


(7) Provide additional information as requested by the Associate Administrator, if the Associate Administrator determines that a filing lacks pertinent information or otherwise does not comply with applicable requirements.


(b) *Description of approval proposal.* In addition to the provisions in paragraph (a) for an approval, an application for an approval, or an application for modification or renewal of an approval, the applicant must include the following information that is relevant to the approval application—


(1) A description of the activity for which the approval is required;


(2) The proposed duration of the approval;


(3) The transport mode or modes affected, as applicable;




(4) Any additional information specified in the section containing the approval;








(5) For an approval which provides exceptions from regulatory requirements or prohibitions—


(i) Identification of any increased risk to safety or property that may result if the approval is granted, and specification of the measures that the applicant considers necessary or appropriate to address that risk; and




(ii) Substantiation, with applicable analyses or evaluations, if appropriate, demonstrating that the proposed activity will achieve a level of safety that is at least equal to that required by the regulation; and




(6) For lithium cells and batteries used for a medical device and transported in accordance with § 173.185(g) of this chapter, details on the extent to which the destination(s) of the lithium cell or battery is not serviced daily by cargo aircraft.








(c) For an approval with an expiration date, each application for renewal or modification must be filed in the same manner as an original application. If, at least 60 days before an existing approval expires the holder files an application for renewal that is complete and conforms to the requirements of this section, the approval will not expire until final administrative action on the application for renewal has been taken. Operation under an expired approval not filed within 60 days of the expiration date is prohibited. This paragraph does not limit the authority of the Associate Administrator to modify, suspend or terminate an approval under § 107.713.


(d) To request confidential treatment for information contained in the application, the applicant shall comply with § 105.30(a).



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-38, 61 FR 21100, May 9, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 50457, Aug. 18, 2000; 67 FR 61011, Sept. 27, 2002; 70 FR 56090, Sept. 23, 2005; 70 FR 73162, Dec. 9, 2005; 72 FR 55683, Oct. 1, 2007; 79 FR 15043, Mar. 18, 2014; 80 FR 54437, Sept. 10, 2015; 87 FR 78010, Dec. 21, 2022]




