# ยง 117.647   Saginaw River.

(a) The draws of the Lake State Railway Bridge, mile 3.10, and the Central Michigan Railroad Bridge, mile 4.94, both in Bay City, shall open on signal; except that from January 1 through March 31, the draws shall open on signal if at least 12 hours advance notice is provided.


(b) The draws of the Independence Bridge, mile 3.88, Liberty Street Bridge, mile 4.99, Veterans Memorial Bridge, mile 5.60, and Lafayette Street Bridge, mile 6.78, all in Bay City, shall open on signal, except as follows:


(1) From April 15 through November 1, between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays, the draws of the Independence and Veterans Memorial Bridges need open for the passage of recreational vessels only from three minutes before to three minutes after the hour and half-hour, and the Liberty Street and Lafayette Street bridges need open for the passage of recreational vessels only from three minutes before to three minutes after the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(2) From January 1 through March 31, the draws of these bridges shall open on signal if at least 12 hours advance notice is provided.


(c) The draw of the CSX railroad bridge, mile 18.0, need not be opened for the passage of vessels. The owner shall return the draw to an operable condition within a reasonable time when directed by the District Commander to do so.


(d) The draw of the Grand Trunk Western railroad bridge, mile 19.2, need not be opened for the passage of vessels.



---

[N] [USCG-2011-1013, 77 FR 21866, Apr. 12, 2012, as amended by USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44281, July 27, 2015; USCG-2015-0934, 81 FR 11119, Mar. 3, 2016]




