# ยง 31.26   Filing, form, and service of papers.

(a) *Filing and form.* (1) A party filing any document under this part shall submit (i) the original and two copies to the Docket Operation Services, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590; and (ii) two copies simultaneously to the ALJ or, if on appeal, to the authority head. The requirements of this paragraph apply to all filings under this part, regardless of whether there is a cross-reference to ยง 31.26.


(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the Docket Clerk, and a designation of the paper (*e.g.,* motion to quash subpoena).


(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone nunber of, the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.


(4) Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.


(b) *Service.* A party filing a document shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in ยง 31.8 shall be made by delivering a copy, or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid and addressed, to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.


(c) *Proof of service.* A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.



---

[N] [53 FR 881, Jan. 14, 1988, as amended at 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008]




