# ยง 766.7   Submission of information.

(a) All information (including letters of intent, protocols, data, forms, studies, and allegations) submitted to EPA under this part must bear the applicable Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) section number (e.g., ยง 766.20).


(b) You must use the CISS tool to complete and submit all data, reports, and other information required under this part except for records and reports of allegations of significant adverse reactions, which must be submitted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) Submissions must be submitted to EPA via CDX.


(2) To access the CISS tool go to *https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx* and follow the appropriate links and for further instructions to go *http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/ereporting/index.html.*

(c) You must submit records and reports of allegations of significant adverse reactions and the accompanying cover letters by one of the following methods:


(1) Mail, preferably certified, to the Document Control Office (DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: Dioxin/Furan report part 766, Allegations of significant adverse reactions.


(2) Hand delivery to OPPT Document Control Office (DCO), EPA East, Rm. 6428, 1201 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC, ATTN: Dioxin/Furan report part 766, Allegations of significant adverse reactions. The DCO is open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number for the DCO is (202) 564-8930. Such deliveries are only accepted during the DCO's normal hours of operation.



---

[N] [78 FR 72828, Dec. 4, 2013]




