# § 341.8   Payment or redemption during lifetime of owner.

(a) *At age 59
* A Retirement Plan Bond will be redeemable at its current redemption value upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), provided he is 59
1/2 years of age or older. The owner's age will be determined from the date of birth shown on the face of the bond, provided, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right in any case or class of cases to require proof, in the form of a duly certified copy of his birth certificate, that the owner has attained the age of 59
1/2 years. If such evidence is unavailable, one of the following documents may be furnished in lieu thereof:


(1) Church records of birth or baptism.


(2) Hospital birth record or certificate.


(3) Physician's or midwife's birth record.


(4) Certification of Bible or other family record.


(5) Military, naturalization or immigration records.


(6) Other evidence of probative value. Similar documentary evidence will also be required to support any claim made by an owner that the date of birth shown on his bond is incorrect.


(b) *Prior to age 59
* A Retirement Plan Bond will be paid at its then current redemption value upon a registered owner's request (or by a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf) prior to his attainment of age 59
1/2 years upon submission of a physician's statement or any similar evidence showing that the owner has become disabled to such an extent that he is unable to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite duration. The following are examples of impairments which would ordinarily be considered as preventing substantial, gainful activity:


(1) Loss of use of two limbs.


(2) Certain progressive diseases which have resulted in the physical loss or atrophy of a limb, such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or Buerger's disease.


(3) Diseases of the heart, lungs, or blood vessels which have resulted in major loss of heart or lung reserve as evidenced by X-ray, electrocardiogram, or other objective findings, so that despite medical treatment breathlessness, pain, or fatigue is produced on slight exertion, such as walking several blocks, using public transportation, or doing small chores.


(4) Cancer which is inoperable and progressive.


(5) Damage to the brain or brain abnormality which has resulted in severe loss of judgment, intellect, orientation, or memory.


(6) Mental diseases (e.g., psychosis or severe psychoneurosis) requiring continued institutionalization or constant supervision of the individual.


(7) Loss or diminution of vision to the extent that the affected individual has a central visual acuity of no better than 20/200 in the better eye after best correction, or has a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual fields subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.


(8) Permanent and total loss of speech.


(9) Total deafness uncorrectible by a hearing aid.


(c) *Requests for payment*—(1) *By owner.* When redemption of any Retirement Plan Bond is desired by the registered owner under paragraph (a) of this section, it should be presented with the request for payment on the back of the bond signed and duly certified, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. If payment is requested under paragraph (b) of this section, the letter described therein should accompany the bond.


(2) *By person other than owner.* When redemption of any Retirement Plan Bond is desired by the legal guardian, committee conservator, or similar representative of the owner's estate under paragraph (a) of this section, it should be presented, with the request signed as described below, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. If payment is requested under paragraph (b) of this section, the letter described therein should accompany the bond. 
1 The request for payment, in either case, should be signed by the representative in his fiduciary capacity before an authorized certifying officer, and must be supported by a certificate or a certified copy of the letters of the appointment from the court making the appointment, under seal, or other proof of qualification if the appointment was not made by a court. Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, such evidence should state that the appointment is in full force and should be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment.


(d) *Partial redemption.* A Retirement Plan Bond in a denomination greater than $50 (face value) which is otherwise eligible for redemption may be redeemed in part, at current redemption value, upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations. In any case in which partial redemption is desired, before the request for payment is signed, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face value) and reissue of the remainder” should be appended to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date. No partial redemption of a bond will be made after the death of the owner in whose name it is registered.



---

[N] [28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977]




