# § 63.11585   What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?

(a) What General Provision notification, recordkeeping and reporting requirements must I meet? You must meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 63 subpart A according to Table 6.


(b) What notifications must I submit and when?


(1) *Initial Notification of Applicability.* If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability as required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than April 29, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after initial start-up of operation, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or April 29, 2010, whichever is later. The initial notification of applicability must include the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iii).


(2) Notification of Intent to conduct a Performance Test. If you elect to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).


(3) Notification of Compliance Status Report (NOCSR). You must submit a NOCSR according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You must submit the NOCSR, including the performance test results, if applicable, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11580 or completion of the performance test, whichever is sooner. The NOCSR must include the information in § 63.9(h)(2)(i)(A) through (G) necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard as of the applicable compliance date.


(4) If you have an existing source and are using data from a previously conducted performance test to serve as documentation of compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements of this subpart, you must submit the test data in lieu of the initial performance test results with the NOCSR required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(5) You must provide the results of the initial management practices required by § 63.11584(a)(1) and (d)(1).


(6) If you are providing certification that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, you must submit this certification in the NOCSR required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You must submit the certification statement, including the supporting calculations or performance test results, if applicable. The certification statement and supporting documentation must include the information in § 63.11582(e)(1) necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard as of the compliance date.


(c) What reports must I submit and when?


(1) You must submit compliance reports as specified in Table 5 of this subpart that applies to you.


(2) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each compliance report specified in Table 5 of this subpart according to the following dates:


(i) If deviations occur, then:


(A) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11580 (*i.e.,* December 31 for a source that is existing with a compliance date of December 30, 2010).


(B) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580 (*i.e.,* January 31 for a source that is existing with a compliance date of December 30, 2010).


(C) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which deviations occur must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(D) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which deviations occur must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(ii) If no deviations occur, then:


(A) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580 and ending on December 31 following the end of the first calendar year after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11580.


(B) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31 following the end of the first calendar year after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580.


(C) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which deviations occur must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.


(D) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which no deviations occur must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31 immediately following the previous calendar year.


(3) The compliance report must contain the following information:


(i) Company name and address.


(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.


(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(iv) If there are no deviations from the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements as specified in Table 1, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements during the reporting period.


(v) If there were no periods during which the CPMS (if a CPMS is used to demonstrate compliance) was out-of-control as defined by the manufacturer's recommendations, a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(vi) A description of any changes in monitoring systems or CPMS, processes (including changes that establish the basis for certification that the PM concentration from process vents will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf or the addition of new processes), or controls since the last reporting period or for the first compliance report, since the notification of compliance status report.


(4) For each deviation, as applicable and as defined in § 63.11588, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section, and the information in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (4)(ix) of this section that apply to you.


(i) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.


(ii) The date and time that each bag leak detector, parameter monitor, or CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) If a CPMS is used, the date, time and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control.


(iv) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(v) A list of reasons for the deviations during the reporting period.


(vi) If a CPMS is used, a summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(vii) A brief description of the process units.


(viii) A brief description of the bag leak detector, parameter monitor, or CPMS.


(ix) If a CPMS is used, the date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.


(5) If acceptable to both the Administrator and you, you may submit reports and notifications electronically.


(d) What records must I maintain?


(1) You must maintain the following records:


(i) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification of Applicability or NOCSR that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(ii) Records identifying periods when the chemical preparations operation is in target HAP service using:


(A) Production records showing the dates and times the chemical preparations operation is processing target HAP-containing materials; and


(B) Material safety data sheets (MSDS) of target HAP-containing materials being processed.


(iii) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(iv) Records of CPMS (if a CPMS is used to demonstrate compliance) calibration checks and adjustments and maintenance performed on CPMS as required by § 63.10(b)(2)(x) and (xi).


(v) Records of CPMS as required by § 63.10(c) and § 63.11583(d)(5).


(vi) Records of all inspections as required by § 63.11584(b) and pressure measurement device checks (if applicable) as required by § 63.11583(e)(6).


(vii) Records of the site-specific monitoring plan developed according to § 63.11583(f).


(viii) Records of particulate control device manufacturing specifications and recommendations.


(2) You must maintain the records specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iii) of this section.


(i) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).


(ii) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.


(iii) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.


(3) If you are providing certification that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, you must maintain the following records according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iii) of this section:


(i) Records of the initial certification statement and supporting documentation specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(ii) Records of ductwork inspections specified in § 63.11584(d)(4).


(iii) Records of the quarterly raw material losses to the atmosphere and process vent stream PM concentration calculations specified in § 63.11582(e)(2).



---

[N] [74 FR 69208, Dec. 30, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]




