# ยง 62.14101   Definitions.

Terms used but not defined in this subpart have the meaning given to them in the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR part 60, subparts A, B, and Eb.


*Contract* means a legally binding agreement or obligation that cannot be canceled or modified without substantial financial loss.


*De-rate* means to make a permanent physical change to the municipal waste combustor unit that reduces the maximum combustion capacity of the unit to less than or equal to 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste. A permit restriction or a change in the method of operation does not qualify as de-rating. (See the procedures specified in 40 CFR 60.58b(j) of subpart Eb for calculating municipal waste combustor unit capacity.)


*EPA approved State plan* means a State plan that EPA has reviewed and approved based on the requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart B to implement and enforce 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb. An approved State plan becomes effective on the date specified in the notice published in the _Federal Register_ announcing EPA's approval.


*Municipal waste combustor plant* means one or more affected facilities (as defined in ยง 62.14102) at the same location.


*Protectorate* means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.


*State* means any of the 50 United States and the protectorates of the United States.


*State plan* means a plan submitted pursuant to section 111(d) and section 129(b)(2) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR part 60, subpart B that implements and enforces 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb.


*Tribal plan* means a plan submitted by a Tribal Authority pursuant to 40 CFR parts 9, 35, 49, 50, and 81 that implements and enforces 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb.




