# § 1066.695   Data requirements.

Record information for each test as follows:


(a) Test number.


(b) A brief description of the test vehicle (or other system/device tested).


(c) Date and time of day for each part of the test sequence.


(d) Test results. Also include a validation of driver accuracy as described in § 1066.425(j).


(e) Driver and equipment operators.


(f) Vehicle information as applicable, including identification number, model year, applicable emission standards (including bin standards or family emission limits, as applicable), vehicle model, vehicle class, test group, durability group, engine family, evaporative/refueling emission family, basic engine description (including displacement, number of cylinders, turbocharger/supercharger used, and catalyst type), fuel system (type of fuel injection and fuel tank capacity and location), engine code, GVWR, applicable test weight, inertia weight class, actual curb weight at zero miles, actual road load at 50 mi/hr, transmission class and configuration, axle ratio, odometer reading, idle rpm, and measured drive wheel tire pressure.


(g) Dynamometer identification, inertia weight setting, indicated power absorption setting, and records to verify compliance with the driving distance and cycle-validation criteria as calculated from measured roll or shaft revolutions.


(h) Analyzer bench identification, analyzer ranges, recordings of analyzer output during zero, span, and sample readings.


(i) Associate the following information with the test record: test number, date, vehicle identification, vehicle and equipment operators, and identification of the measurements recorded.


(j) Test cell barometric pressure and humidity. You may use a central laboratory barometer if the barometric pressure in each test cell is shown to be within ±0.1% of the barometric pressure at the central barometer location.


(k) Records to verify compliance with the ambient temperature requirements throughout the test procedure and records of fuel temperatures during the running loss test.


(l) [Reserved]


(m) For CVS systems, record dilution factor for each test interval and the following additional information:


(1) For CFV and SSV testing, *V*_mix_ for each interval of the exhaust test.


(2) For PDP testing, test measurements required to calculate *V*_mix_ for each test interval.


(n) The humidity of the dilution air, if you remove H_2_O from an emission sample before measurement.


(o) Temperature of the dilute exhaust mixture and secondary dilution air (in the case of a double-dilution system) at the inlet to the respective gas meter or flow instrumentation used for PM sampling. Determine minimum values, maximum values, mean values, and percent of time outside of the tolerance over each test interval.


(p) The maximum exhaust gas temperature over the course of the test interval within 20 cm upstream or downstream of PM sample media.


(q) If applicable, the temperatures of the heated FID, the gas in the heated sample line, and the heated filter. Determine minimum values, maximum values, average values, and percent of time outside of the tolerance over each test interval.


(r) Gas meter or flow measurement instrumentation readings used for batch sampling over each test interval. Determine minimum, maximum, and average values over each test interval.


(s) The stabilized pre-test weight and post-test weight of each particulate sample media (e.g., filter).


(t) Continuous temperature and humidity of the ambient air in which the PM sample media are stabilized. Determine minimum values, maximum values, average values, and percent of time outside of the tolerance over each test interval.


(u) For vehicles fueled by natural gas, the test fuel composition, including all carbon-containing compounds (including CO_2_, but excluding CO). Record C_1_ and C_2_ compounds individually. You may record C_3_ through C_5_ hydrocarbons together, and you may record C_6_ and heavier hydrocarbon compounds together.


(v) For vehicles fueled by liquefied petroleum gas, the test fuel composition, including all carbon-containing compounds (including CO_2_, but excluding CO). Record C_1_ through C_4_ compounds individually. You may record C_5_ and heavier hydrocarbons together.


(w) For the AC17 test in § 1066.845, interior volume, climate control system type and characteristics, refrigerant used, compressor type, and evaporator/condenser characteristics.


(x) Additional information related to evaporative emissions. [Reserved]


(y) Additional information related to refueling emissions. [Reserved]



---

[N] [[79 FR 23823, Apr. 28, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 74213, Oct. 25, 2016]




