# § 164.008-7   Procedure for approval.

The following items shall be accomplished in sequential order.


(a) *Test request information.* If a manufacturer desires to have a bulkhead panel approved, a written request shall be submitted to the Commandant of the Coast Guard, together with the following:


(1) If the material has already been approved as an “Incombustible Material” under subpart 164.009 of this part, the approval number of the material shall be indicated. If not, the procedure set forth in subpart 164.009 of this part shall be followed; and such approval shall be obtained prior to submittal under this specification.


(2) The description and trade name of the bulkhead panel.


(3) A statement of the composition of the material and the percentage of each component.


(4) A sample of the material at least 1 foot square in each thickness and density of the material as manufactured.


(5) The range of thicknesses and/or densities in which it is proposed to manufacture or use the material, together with any information or recommendations the manufacturer may have as maximum or minimum thickness or density.


(6) The location of the place or places where the material will be manufactured.


(7) A sketch showing typical installation methods and indicating limitations, if any.


(8) A general statement describing manufacturing procedures indicating the degree of quality control exercised and the degree of inspection performed by outside organizations.


(9) A statement indicating proposed methods for field identification of the products as being approved. Identification shall include the Coast Guard approval number.


(b) *Test suitability.* The above information will be examined by the Coast Guard and if it is indicated that the material is in all other respects suitable for testing, the manufacturer will be so advised. Coast Guard comments on the manufacturer's recommended thickness and density of the panel for the fire resistance and integrity test will be given at this time together with the estimated cost of the tests.


(c) *Samples to be submitted.* If the material is indicated as being suitable for testing, the manufacturer shall submit the samples required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section to the Fire Research Section of the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, DC 20234, and shall advise the Coast Guard of the shipment.


(1) One representative panel of the material having a surface approximately 4.65 square meters (50 square feet) and a height of 2.44 meters (8 feet) containing at least one vertical joint, located at approximately one-third panel width from one edge (20-24 inches), and one representative panel of the material having 60 cm. × 60 cm. (2′ × 2′) dimensions. If the manufacturer desires to submit the panel in thickness or size other than that recommended, prior approval shall be obtained from the Commandant. The manufacturer shall supply any labor required for fabrication of the panel and for attaching the panel to the frame for testing.


(d) *Pretest information.* At this time the manufacturer shall submit to the Coast Guard the following:


(1) A statement that the material as offered for testing and as described pursuant to § 164.008-6(a)(3) is completely representative of the product which will be manufactured and sold under U.S. Coast Guard approval if such approval is granted and that the shipbuilder will be advised of the proper installation methods and the limitations of the conditions of approval.


(2) A commitment from the manufacturer that he will reimburse the National Bureau of Standards for the cost of the tests or review when billed by them.


(3) If the manufacturer desires to witness the test, he should so indicate at this time.


(e) *Test authorization.* The National Bureau of Standards will then be authorized to conduct the test noted in § 164.008-4(a) and, upon completion of all testing, the manufacturer will be billed directly by the National Bureau of Standards, four copies of the report containing the information required by § 164.008-5 shall be submitted to the Coast Guard.


(f) *Notification of results.* A copy of the report will be forwarded to the manufacturer, and he will be advised if his material is approved under this subpart. If approved, any stipulations of the approval will be specified. This information will be published in the _Federal Register,_ and a certificate of approval will be issued to the manufacturer.


(g) *Other laboratories.* (1) If the manufacturer desires to have the tests conducted at some laboratory other than the National Bureau of Standards, this information shall be supplied at the time of initial contact with the Coast Guard. If the proposed laboratory is acceptable to the Coast Guard, the manufacturer will be so advised and any special testing requirements together with an estimated cost of expenses incurred by the National Bureau of Standards for their review will be specified at this time. Payment will be made as noted in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The Coast Guard shall be notified in advance of the date of the test so that a representative may be present.


(2) The laboratory shall submit four copies of a detailed test report to the Coast Guard, together with representative samples of the material being taken before and after testing. The test report and samples will be examined by the National Bureau of Standards for compliance with this subpart. The test report shall include the information required by § 164.008-5 together with any other pertinent data.



---

[N] [CGFR 69-72, 34 FR 17500, Oct. 29, 1969, as amended by USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58286, Sept. 29, 2014]




