# § 1.625   How will the Forest Service respond to any hearing requests?

(a) *General.* NFS will determine whether to answer any hearing request under § 1.621 on behalf of the Forest Service.


(b) *Content.* If NFS answers a hearing request:


(1) For each of the numbered factual issues listed under § 1.621(b)(1), NFS's answer must explain the Forest Service's position with respect to the issues of material fact raised by the requester, including one or more of the following statements as appropriate:


(i) That the Forest Service is willing to stipulate to the facts as alleged by the requester;


(ii) That the Forest Service believes the issue listed by the requester is not a factual issue, explaining the basis for such belief;


(iii) That the Forest Service believes the issue listed by the requester is not material, explaining the basis for such belief; or


(iv) That the Forest Service agrees that the issue is factual, material, and in dispute.


(2) NFS's answer must also indicate whether the hearing request will be consolidated with one or more other hearing requests under § 1.623 and, if so:


(i) Identify any other hearing request that will be consolidated with this hearing request; and


(ii) State which Department will conduct the hearing and provide contact information for the appropriate Department hearings component.


(3) If the Forest Service plans to rely on any scientific studies, literature, and other documented information that are not already in the license proceeding record, a copy of each item must be provided with NFS's answer.


(4) NFS's answer must also indicate whether or not the Forest Service consents to service by electronic means under § 1.613(c)(4) and, if so, by what means.


(c) *Witnesses and exhibits.* NFS's answer must also contain a list of the Forest Service's witnesses and exhibits that the Forest Service intends to present at the hearing, other than solely for impeachment purposes.


(1) For each witness listed, the Forest Service must provide:


(i) His or her name, address, telephone number, and qualifications; and


(ii) A brief narrative summary of his or her expected testimony.


(2) For each exhibit listed, the Forest Service must specify whether it is in the license proceeding record.


(d) *Page limits.* (1) For each disputed factual issue, the information provided under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may not exceed two pages.


(2) For each witness, the information provided under paragraph (c)(1) of this section may not exceed one page.


(e) *Notice in lieu of answer.* If NFS elects not to answer a hearing request:


(1) The Forest Service is deemed to agree that the issues listed by the requester are factual, material, and in dispute;


(2) The Forest Service may file a list of witnesses and exhibits with respect to the request only as provided in § 1.642(b); and


(3) NFS must include with its case referral under § 1.623 a notice in lieu of answer containing the information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if the hearing request will be consolidated with one or more other hearing requests under § 1.623, and the statement required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section.




