# ยง 790.2   Central and field office organization.

(a) *General organization.* NCUA is composed of the Board with a Central Office in Alexandria, Virginia, five Regional Offices, the Asset Management and Assistance Center, the Community Development Revolving Loan Program, and the NCUA Central Liquidity Facility (CLF).


(b) *Central Office.* The Central Office address is NCUA, 1775 Duke St., Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428.


(1) *The NCUA Board.* NCUA is managed by its Board. The Board consists of three members appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, for six-year terms. One Board member is designated by the President to be Chairman of the Board. The Chairman shall be the spokesman for the Board and shall represent the Board and the NCUA in its official relations with other branches of the government. A second member is designated by the Board to be Vice-Chairman. The Board is also responsible for management of the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) and serves as the Board of Directors of the CLF.


(2) *Secretary of the Board.* The Secretary of the Board is responsible for the secretarial functions of the Board. The Secretary's responsibilities include preparing agendas for meetings of the Board, preparing and maintaining the minutes for all official actions taken by the Board, and executing and maintaining all documents adopted by the Board or under its direction. The Secretary also serves as the Secretary of the CLF.


(3) *Asset Management and Assistance Center.* The President of the Asset Management and Assistance Center (AMAC) is responsible for monitoring, evaluating, disposing, and/or managing major assets acquired by NCUA; responsible for managing involuntary liquidations for all federally insured credit unions placed into involuntary liquidation including the orderly processing of payments of share insurance, sale and/or collection of loan portfolios, liquidation of other assets and achieving other recoveries, payments to creditors, and distributions to any uninsured shareholders. The President, AMAC, serves as a primary consultant with regional offices on asset sales or purchases to restructure problem case credit unions, as technical expert to evaluate specific areas of credit union operations, and as instructor in training classes; responsible to prepare and negotiate bond claims; responsible to manage or assist in the management of conservatorships. The address of AMAC is 4807 Spicewood Springs Road, Suite 5100, Austin, Texas 78759-8490.


(4) *The Office of the Chief Financial Officer.* NCUA's Chief Financial Officer plans, organizes, implements, directs, and provides overall direction and leadership for:


(i) Agency-wide strategic planning, budget formulation, and performance reporting;


(ii) The agency's financial management system and financial reporting functions;


(iii) Procurement and facilities management to include various administrative responsibilities such as property management, mail services, graphics support, supply management, printing, and publications management; and


(iv) Managing the operations of the Operating and Insurance Funds, including payroll, travel policies, revenue assessment, and dividend distributions.


(5) *Office of Examination and Insurance.* The Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance: formulates standards and procedures for examination and supervision of the community of federally insured credit unions, and reports to the Board on the performance of the examination program; manages the risk to the NCUSIF, to include overseeing the NCUSIF Investment Committee, monitoring the adequacy of NCUSIF reserves, analyzing the reasons for NCUSIF losses, formulating policies and procedures regarding the supervision of financially troubled credit unions, and evaluating certain requests for special assistance pursuant to Section 208 of the Federal Credit Union Act and for certain proposed administrative actions regarding federally insured credit unions; serves as the Board expert on accounting principles and standards and on auditing standards; represents NCUA at meetings with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) and General Accounting Office (GAO); and collects data and provides statistical reports. The Director is responsible for developing and conducting research in support of NCUA programs, and for preparing reports on research activities for the information and use of agency staff, credit union officials, state credit union supervisory authorities, and other governmental and private groups. The Director is also responsible for providing interest rate risk assessment, investment expertise and advice to the Board and agency staff and conducting research and development to assess risk areas of emerging products, delivery systems, infrastructure issues, and investments.


(6) *Office of the Executive Director.* The Executive Director reports to the entire NCUA Board. The Executive Director translates the NCUA Board policy decisions into workable programs, delegates responsibility for these programs to appropriate staff members, and coordinates the activities of the senior executive staff, which includes: The General Counsel; the Regional Directors; and the Office Directors for the Asset Management and Assistance Center, Chief Economist, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer, Consumer Financial Protection, Continuity and Security Management, Credit Union Resources and Expansion, Examination and Insurance, Human Resources, Minority and Women Inclusion, National Examinations and Supervision, and External Affairs and Communications. Because of the nature of the attorney/client relationship between the Board and General Counsel, the General Counsel may be directed by the Board not to disclose discussions and/or assignments with anyone, including the Executive Director. The Executive Director is otherwise to be privy to all matters within senior executive staff's responsibility. The Office of the Executive Director also supervises the agency's ombudsman. The ombudsman investigates complaints and recommends solutions on regulatory issues that cannot be resolved at the regional level.


(7) *Office of General Counsel.* The General Counsel reports to the entire NCUA Board. The General Counsel has overall responsibility for all legal matters affecting NCUA and for liaison with the Department of Justice. The General Counsel represents NCUA in all litigation and administrative hearings when such direct representation is permitted by law and, in other instances, assists the attorneys responsible for the conduct of such litigation. The General Counsel also provides NCUA with legal advice and opinions on all matters of law, and the public with interpretations of the Federal Credit Union Act, the NCUA Rules and Regulations, and other NCUA Board directives. The Office has responsibility for processing Freedom of Information Act requests and appeals. The General Counsel has responsibility for the drafting, reviewing, and publication of all items which appear in the _Federal Register,_ including rules, regulations, and notices required by law and carrying out the Board's responsibilities under the Privacy Act.


(8) *The Office of Human Resources.* The Office of Human Resources provides a comprehensive program for the management of NCUA's human resources. This is done in support of NCUA's goal to recruit, develop, and retain a quality and representative workforce. The Director is responsible for managing NCUA's compensation program, for facilitating good organization design, for staffing positions through recruitment and merit promotion programs, and for maintaining an automated personnel records system. The Director is also responsible for the Board's performance management, incentive awards, employee assistance, and benefit programs. These programs are geared to foster healthy employee/management relations and to provide employees with good working conditions. The Director is also responsible for providing a comprehensive program for the training and development of NCUA's staff, including developing policy consistent with the Government Employees Training Act; providing training opportunities equitably so that all employees have the skills necessary to help meet the agency's mission; evaluating the agency's training and development efforts; and ensuring that the agencies training monies are spent in a cost efficient manner and in accordance with the law.


(9) *Office of the Chief Information Officer.* The Chief Information Officer has responsibility for the management and administration of NCUA's information resources. This includes the development, maintenance, operation, and support of information systems which directly support the Agency's mission, maintaining and operating the Agency's information processing infrastructure, responding to requests for releasable Agency information, and insuring all related material security and integrity risks are recognized and controlled as much as possible. The Chief Information Officer is also responsible for carrying out the Board's responsibilities under the Paperwork Reduction Act and in directing NCUA responses to reporting requirements. 


(10) *Office of the Inspector General.* The Inspector General reports directly to the Board and provides semi-annual reports regarding audit and investigation activities to the Board and the Congress. The Inspector General is responsible for: (a) Conducting independent audits and investigations of all NCUA programs and functions to promote efficiency; (b) reviewing policies and procedures to evaluate controls to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse; and (c) reviewing existing and proposed legislation and regulations to evaluate their impact on the economic and efficient administration of the Agency.


(11) *Office of External Affairs and Communications.* The Director of the Office of External Affairs and Communications is responsible for maintaining NCUA's relationship with the public and the media; for liaison with the U.S. Congress, and with other Executive Branch agencies concerning legislative matters; and for the analysis and development of legislative proposals and public affairs programs.


(12) *Credit Union Resources and Expansion.* This Office is responsible for coordinating NCUA policy and actions related to credit union chartering and field of membership, low income designation, and preserving credit unions run by minorities and/or serving minorities. The Office administers the Community Development Revolving Loan Program for Credit Unions (Program). This Program is funded from congressional appropriations and serves as a source of financial support, in the form of technical assistance grants and loans to low-income credit unions serving predominantly low-income members. The Program is governed by part 705 of subchapter A of this chapter.


(13) *Office of Minority and Women Inclusion.* The Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI) was established pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. The Director of OMWI reports to the NCUA Chairman. OMWI has the responsibility for all NCUA matters relating to diversity in management, employment, and business activities. Specific duties of the Office include developing and implementing standards for: Equal employment opportunity and the racial, ethnic, and gender diversity of the workforce and senior management of the NCUA; increased participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of the NCUA, including standards for coordinating technical assistance to such businesses; and assessing the diversity policies and practices of credit unions regulated by the NCUA. The Director of OMWI also serves as NCUA's Director of Equal Employment Opportunity.


(14) *NCUA Central Liquidity Facility (CLF).* The CLF was created to improve general financial stability by providing funds to meet the liquidity needs of credit unions. It is a mixed-ownership government corporation under the Government Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 9101 *et seq.*). The CLF is managed by the President, under the general supervision of the NCUA Board which serves as the CLF Board of Directors. The Chairman of the NCUA Board serves as the Chairman of the CLF Board of Directors. The Secretary of the NCUA Board serves as the Secretary of the CLF Board of Directors. The NCUA Board shall appoint the CLF President and Vice President. 


(15) *Office of Consumer Financial Protection.* (i) The Office of Consumer Financial Protection contains two divisions:


(A) The Division of Consumer Compliance Policy and Outreach; and


(B) The Division of Consumer Affairs;


(ii) The Office provides consumer financial services, including consumer education and complaint resolution; establishes, consolidates, and coordinates consumer financial protections within the agency; oversees the agency's fair lending examination program; and acts as the central liaison on consumer financial protection with other federal agencies.


(16) *The Office of Chief Economist.* The Office of Chief Economist is within the Office of the Executive Director and reports to the Deputy Executive Director. The office analyzes developments in key components of the economy and monitors trends and conditions in the domestic and international markets for money, credit, foreign exchange and commodities, and relates these trends to overall macroeconomic conditions and government monetary and fiscal policies for the purpose of evaluating effects on credit unions. The office provides advice and guidance to the NCUA Board, the Office of the Executive Director, and the Office of Capital Markets.


(17) *The Office of Continuity and Security Management.* The Director of the Office of Continuity and Security Management is responsible for NCUA's emergency preparedness and for coordinating the response to natural disasters or national security events; for timely dissemination of information on cyber threats, terrorism, foreign criminal activity, and other national security threats to the agency or to the credit union sector; and for conducting risk assessments and managing executive branch programs to protect NCUA personnel and facilities, and to safeguard classified national security information.


(18) *The Office of Business Innovation.* The Office of Business Innovation (OBI) serves as a central platform and facilitator for critical agency stakeholders to shape achievable solutions and capabilities to manage evolving business demands. This office manages the agency's Information Technology modernization and business process optimization efforts, from the internal and external business stakeholder perspective, of mission related systems that enable the NCUA's core mission of regulating and supervising credit unions. Additionally, OBI provides enterprise information security support in partnership with the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) and serves as a center point for enterprise data strategy and governance.


(c) *Field Offices.* NCUA's programs are conducted through Regional Offices and the Office of National Examinations and Supervision.


(1) *Regional Offices.* (i) The NCUA has three Regional Offices:


(ii) A Regional Director is in charge of each Regional Office. The Regional Director manages NCUA's programs in the Region assigned in accordance with established policies. A Regional Director's duties include: Directing examination and supervision programs to promote and assure safety and soundness; assisting other offices in chartering and insurance issues; managing regional resources to meet program objectives in the most economical and practical manner; and maintaining good public relations with public, private, and governmental organizations, federal credit union officials, credit union organizations, and other groups which have an interest in credit union matters in the assigned region. The Regional Director maintains liaison and cooperation with other regional offices of federal departments and agencies, state agencies, city and county officials, and other governmental units that affect credit unions. The Regional Director is aided by Associate Regional Directors. Each region is divided into examiner districts, each assigned to a Supervisory Credit Union Examiner; groups of examiners are directed by a Supervisory Credit Union Examiner, each of whom in turn reports directly to one of the Associate Regional Directors.


(2) *Office of National Examinations and Supervision.* Similar to a Regional Director, the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision manages NCUA's supervisory program over credit unions; however, it oversees the activities for corporate credit unions and of natural person credit unions defined as ONES credit unions under part 700 of this chapter, in accordance with established policies. The Director's duties include directing insurance, examination, and supervision programs to promote and assure safety and soundness; managing office resources to meet program objectives in the most economical and practical manner; and maintaining good public relations with public, private and governmental organizations, credit union officials, credit union organizations, and other groups which have an interest in credit union matters in the assigned office. The Director maintains liaison and cooperation with other regional offices of federal departments and agencies, state agencies, and other governmental units that affect credit unions. The Director is aided by a Deputy Director. Staff working in the office report to the Director of Supervision, who in turn reports to the Deputy Director. Field staff is divided into examiner districts, each assigned to a National Field Supervisor, each of whom in turn reports directly to the Deputy Director.



---

[N] [58 FR 45431, Aug. 30, 1993]


