# ยง 5001.116   Ineligible CF projects.

The following are ineligible projects for the CF program only:


(a) For industrial park sites, the financing of on-site utility systems or business and industrial buildings.


(b) Inherently commercial enterprises: This type of project is typically operated by a private enterprise with an essential characteristic to produce profits. This term does not include projects operated by private enterprises on a not-for-profit basis that provide education, childcare, geriatric care, or health care to rural communities. Inherently commercial enterprises include but are not limited to: grocery stores; television and radio services or facilities; that portion of a water and/or waste disposal facility normally provided by a business or industrial user; and telecommunication facilities or services, including broadband or fiber network services that do not meet the requirements of ยง 5001.103(a)(6). See ยง 5001.103(d) for the eligibility of a commercial enterprise leasing space in an eligible project;


(c) Projects where construction is completed prior to filing an application with the Agency. This restriction applies to construction completed by or for the borrower and does not preclude the purchase or acquisition of a building constructed by an independent third party or refinancing of debt in accordance with ยง 5001.102(d).


(d) Projects where the borrower acts to circumvent the regulations provided in this subpart, causing the borrower or project being eligible when, previously, the borrower or project was ineligible.


(e) Projects involving the purchase of existing facilities in which the transaction's purpose is to primarily retire the debt of the seller in order for the seller to continue to use the facility at a lower cost. Characteristics of ineligible purchase transactions may include the following:


(1) An entity, which may or may not be an eligible CF borrower, forms a new eligible entity or uses an existing eligible related entity to purchase all or part of its assets;


(2) The new entity uses CF guaranteed loan funds to purchase the assets at the agreed upon price and leases the assets back to the seller, generally at a rate which equates to the new debt payments; and


(3) The seller uses the proceeds of the sale to retire its high-cost debt and continues to use the facilities at a lower cost.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79712, Sept. 30, 2024]








