# § 1019.1   Purpose, applicability, and exemptions.

(a) *Purpose.* The regulations in this subpart A of this part 1019 establish the procedures exporters must use to notify the Consumer Product Safety Commission of their intent to export from the United States products which are banned or fail to comply with an applicable safety standard, regulation, or statute. These regulations also set forth the procedures the Commission uses in transmitting the notification of export of noncomplying products to the country to which those products will be sent. The Consumer Product Safety Act Authorization Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-631), which became effective November 10, 1978, established these notification requirements and authorizes the Commission to issue regulations to implement them.


(b) *Applicability.* These regulations apply to any person or firm which exports from the United States and item which is:


(1) A consumer product that does not conform to an applicable consumer product safety rule issued under sections 7 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056, 2058), or which has been declared to be a banned hazardous product under provisions of sections 8 and 9 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 2057, 2058); or


(2) A misbranded hazardous substance or a banned hazardous substance within the meaning of sections 2(p) and 2(q) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1261); or


(3) A fabric or related material or an item of wearing apparel or interior furnishing made of fabric or related material which fails to conform with an applicable flammability standard or regulations issued under section 4 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1191, 1193).


(c) *Exemption for certain items with noncomplying labeling.* The exporter of an item that fails to comply with a standard or regulation only because it is labeled in a language other than English need not notify the Commission prior to export if the product is labeled with the required information in the language of the country to which the product will be sent.


(d) *Exemption for samples.* The exporter of an item that fails to comply with a standard or regulation, but which is intended for use only as a sample and not for resale, need not notify the Commission prior to export, if the item is conspicuously and labeled in English with the statement: “Sample only. Not for resale.” (The Commission encourages exporters to provide this label, in addition, in the language of the importing country, but does not require the foreign language labeling.) To qualify as a sample shipment under this exemption, the quantity of goods involved must be consistent with prevalent trade practices with respect to the specific product.


(e) *Exemption for items not in child-resistant packaging.* The exporter of an item which is a “misbranded hazardous substance” within the meaning of section 2(p) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1261(p)) only because it fails to comply with an applicable requirement for child-resistant packaging under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 1471 *et seq.*) need not notify the Commission prior to export.




