# ยง 70.432   Qualification and bonding requirements.

(a) *Manufacturers of tobacco products and proprietors of export warehouses.* Every person, before commencing business as a manufacturer of tobacco products or as a proprietor of an export warehouse, is required to qualify with the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau by making application for a permit and filing bond and other required documents and obtaining a permit.


(b) *Manufacturers of cigarette papers and tubes.* Every person, before commencing business as a manufacturer of cigarette papers and tubes, is required to qualify with the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau by filing bond and other required documents.


(c) *Puerto Rican manufacturers of tobacco products.* Every manufacturer of tobacco products in Puerto Rico who desires to defer payment in Puerto Rico of the internal revenue tax imposed by section 7652(a) of the Internal Revenue Code on tobacco products of Puerto Rican manufacture coming into the United States must file a bond with the appropriate TTB officer. Such bond is conditioned on the principal's paying, at the time and in the manner prescribed in the regulations, the full amount of tax computed on the tobacco products which are released for shipment to the United States. No bond is required if the tax is prepaid.


(d) *Proprietors of customs warehouses.* Every proprietor of a customs bonded manufacturing warehouse, Class 6, who desires to remove under part 44 tax-exempt cigars for exportation (including supplies for vessels and aircraft), or for delivery for subsequent exportation, is required to file a bond. However, removal of cigars for sale or consumption in the United States is subject to customs regulations.


(e) *Drawback of tax.* Taxpaid tobacco products, and cigarette papers and tubes may be exported with benefit of drawback of tax. Drawback may be allowed only to the person who paid the tax on such articles and who files a claim and otherwise complies with the provisions contained in the applicable regulations referred to in ยง 70.431. As a condition precedent to the allowance of any drawback claim, the claimant is required to file a bond in an amount not less than the amount of tax covered in the claim.


(f) *General.* Detailed information relating to the qualification and bonding requirements, including the forms to be used and the procedure to be followed, is fully set forth in the regulations referred to in ยง 70.431.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-251, 52 FR 19325, May 22, 1987. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47606, 47654, Nov. 14, 1990; T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29029, May 29, 2001; T.D. ATF-464, 66 FR 43480, Aug. 20, 2001]




