# ยง 1309.62   Termination of registration.

(a) The registration of any person shall terminate, without any further action by the Administration, if and when such person dies, ceases legal existence, discontinues business or professional practice, or surrenders a registration. Any registrant who ceases legal existence or discontinues business or professional practice shall promptly notify the Special Agent in Charge of the Administration in the area in which the person is located of such fact and seek authority and instructions to dispose of any List I chemicals obtained under the authority of that registration. Any registrant who ceases legal existence or discontinues business or professional practice or wishes to surrender a registration shall notify the Special Agent in Charge of the Administration in the area in which the person is located of such fact and seek authority and instructions to dispose of any List I chemicals obtained under the authority of that registration.


(b) The Special Agent in Charge shall authorize and instruct the person to dispose of the List I chemical in one of the following manners:


(1) By transfer to person registered under the Act and authorized to possess the substances;


(2) By delivery to an agent of the Administration or to the nearest office of the Administration;


(3) By such other means as the Special Agent in Charge may determine to assure that the substance does not become available to unauthorized persons.



---

[N] [60 FR 32454, June 22, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 5916, Feb. 10, 1997; 76 FR 61564, Oct. 5, 2011; 77 FR 4236, Jan. 27, 2012]




