# § 98.463   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) For each industrial waste landfill subject to the reporting requirements of this subpart, calculate annual modeled CH_4_ generation according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section. Apply Equation TT-1 of this section for each waste stream disposed of in the landfill and sum the CH_4_ generation rates for all waste streams disposed of in the landfill to calculate the total annual modeled CH_4_ generation rate for the landfill.


(1) Calculate annual modeled CH_4_ generation using Equation TT-1 of this section.


(2) *Waste stream quantities.* Determine annual waste quantities as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section for each year starting with January 1, 1960 or the year the landfills first accepted waste if after January 1, 1960, up until the most recent reporting year. The choice of method for determining waste quantities will vary according to the availability of historical data. Beginning in the first emissions reporting year (2011 or later) and for each year thereafter, use the procedures in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section to determine waste stream quantities. These procedures should also be used for any year prior to the first emissions reporting year for which the data are available. For other historical years, use paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, where waste disposal records are available, and use the procedures outlined in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section when waste disposal records are unavailable, to determine waste stream quantities. Historical disposal quantities deposited (*i.e.,* prior to the first year in which monitoring begins) should only be determined once, as part of the first annual report, and the same values should be used for all subsequent annual reports, supplemented by the next year's data on new waste disposal.


(i) Determine the quantity of waste (in metric tons as received, *i.e.,* wet weight) disposed of in the landfill separately for each waste stream by any one or a combination of the following methods. 


(A) Direct mass measurements. 


(B) Direct volume measurements multiplied by waste stream density determined from periodic density measurement data or process knowledge. 


(C) Mass balance procedures, determining the mass of waste as the difference between the mass of the process inputs and the mass of the process outputs. 


(D) The number of loads (*e.g.,* trucks) multiplied by the mass of waste per load based on the working capacity of the container or vehicle. 


(ii) Determine the historical disposal quantities for landfills using the Waste Disposal Factor approach in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section when historical production or processing data are available. If production or processing data are available for a given year, you must use Equation TT-3 of this section for that year. Determine historical disposal quantities using the method specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section when historical production or processing data are not available, and for waste streams received from an off-site facility when historical disposal quantities cannot be determined using the methods specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. 


(A) *Determining Waste Disposal Factor:* For each waste stream disposed of in the landfill, calculate the average waste disposal rate per unit of production or unit throughput using all available waste quantity data and corresponding production or processing rates for the process generating that waste or, if appropriate, the facility, using Equation TT-2 of this section.


(B) *Calculate waste:* For each waste stream disposed of in the landfill, calculate the waste disposal quantities for historic years in which direct waste disposal measurements are not available using historical production data and Equation TT-3 of this section. 


(C) For any year in which historic production or processing data are not available such that historic waste quantities cannot be estimated using Equation TT-3 of this section, calculate an average annual bulk waste disposal quantity using either Equation TT-4a of this section when data are available consecutively for the most recent disposal years or Equation TT-4b of this section when data are available for sporadic (non-consecutive) years.


(3) *Degradable organic content (DOC).* For any year, X, in Equation TT-1 of this section, use either the applicable default DOC values provided in Table TT-1 of this subpart or determine values for DOC_x_ as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. When developing historical waste quantity data, you may use default DOC values from Table TT-1 of this subpart for certain years and determined values for DOC_x_ for other years. The historical values for DOC or DOC_x_ must be developed only for the first annual report required for the industrial waste landfill; and used for all subsequent annual reports (*e.g.,* if DOC for year x = 1990 was determined to be 0.15 in the first reporting year, you must use 0.15 for the 1990 DOC value for all subsequent annual reports). 


(i) For the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported, determine the DOC_x_ value of each waste stream disposed of in the landfill no less frequently than once per quarter using the methods specified in § 98.464(b). Calculate annual DOC_x_ for each waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOC_x_ values for that waste stream that were measured during the year. 


(ii) For subsequent years (after the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported), either use the DOC_x_ of each waste stream calculated for the most recent reporting year for which DOC values were determined according to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, or determine new DOC values for that year following the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. You must determine new DOC values following the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section if changes in the process operations occurred during the previous reporting year that can reasonably be expected to alter the characteristics of the waste stream, such as the water content or volatile solids concentration. Should changes to the waste stream occur, you must revise the GHG Monitoring Plan as required in § 98.3(g)(5)(iii) and report the new DOC_x_ value according to the requirements of § 98.466. 


(iii) If DOC_x_ measurement data for each waste stream are available according to the methods specified in § 98.464(b) for years prior to the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported, determine DOC_x_ for each waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOC_x_ values for that waste stream that were measured in Year X. A single measurement value is acceptable for determining DOC_x_ for years prior to the first reporting year. 


(iv) For historical years for which DOC_x_ measurement data, determined according to the methods specified in § 98.464(b), are not available, determine the historical values for DOC_x_ using the applicable methods specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section. Determine these historical values for DOC_x_ only for the first annual report required for this industrial waste landfill; historical values for DOC_x_ calculated for this first annual report should be used for all subsequent annual reports.


(A) For years in which waste stream-specific disposal quantities are determined (as required in paragraphs (a)(2) (ii)(A) and (B) of this section), calculate the average DOC value for a given waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOC measurements of that waste stream that follow the methods provided in § 98.464(b), including any measurement values for years prior to the first reporting year and the four measurement values required in the first reporting year. Use the resulting waste-specific average DOC value for all applicable years (*i.e.,* years in which waste stream-specific disposal quantities are determined) for which direct DOC measurement data are not available. 


(B) For years for which bulk waste disposal quantities are determined according to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, calculate the weighted average bulk DOC value according to the following: Calculate the average DOC value for each waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOC measurements of that waste stream that follows the methods provided in § 98.464(b) (generally, this will include only the DOC values determined in the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported); calculate the average annual disposal quantity for each waste stream as the arithmetic average of the annual disposal quantities for each year in which waste stream-specific disposal quantities have been determined; and calculate the bulk waste DOC value using Equation TT-5 of this section. Use the bulk waste DOC value as DOC_x_ for all years for which bulk waste disposal quantities are determined according to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.


(b) For each landfill, calculate CH_4_ generation (adjusted for oxidation in cover materials) and CH_4_ emissions (taking into account any CH_4_ recovery, if applicable, and oxidation in cover materials) according to the applicable methods in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. 


(1) For each landfill, calculate CH_4_ generation, adjusted for oxidation, from the modeled CH_4_ (G_CH__4_ from Equation TT-1 of this section) using Equation TT-6 of this section.


(2) For landfills that do not have landfill gas collection systems operating during the reporting year, the CH_4_ emissions are equal to the CH_4_ generation (MG) calculated in Equation TT-6 of this section. 


(3) For landfills with landfill gas collection systems in operation during any portion of the reporting year, perform all of the calculations specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(i) Calculate the quantity of CH_4_ recovered according to the requirements at § 98.343(b). 


(ii) Calculate CH_4_ emissions using the Equation HH-6 of § 98.343(c)(3)(i), except use G_CH__4_ determined using Equation TT-1 of this section in Equation HH-6 of § 98.343(c)(3)(i). 


(iii) Calculate CH_4_ generation (MG) from the quantity of CH_4_ recovered using Equation HH-7 of § 98.343(c)(3)(ii). 


(iv) Calculate CH_4_ emissions from the quantity of CH_4_ recovered using Equation HH-8 of § 98.343(c)(3)(ii).



---

[N] [75 FR 39773, July 12, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73907, Nov. 29, 2011; 78 FR 71979, Nov. 29, 2013]




