# § 507.3   Explanation of abbreviations and terms.

(a) *Abbreviations.* (1) CFR—Code of Federal Regulations.


(2) DA—Department of the Army.


(3) DAASA—Deputy Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army.


(4) DLA—Defense Logistics Agency.


(5) DUI—Distinctive unit insignia.


(6) ID—Identification


(7) MCS—Military Clothing Store.


(8) RDI—Regimental Distinctive Insignia.


(9) ROTC—Reserve Officers' Training Corps.


(10) SSI—Shoulder sleeve insignia.


(11) TIOH—The Institute of Heraldry.


(12) U.S.C.—United States Code.


(b) *Terms*—(1) *Appurtenances.* Devices such as stars, letters, numerals, or clasps worn on the suspension ribbon of the medal, or on the ribbon bar that indicate additional awards, participation in specific events, or other distinguishing characteristics of the award.


(2) *Awards.* An all-inclusive term that consists of any decoration, medal, badge, ribbon, or appurtenance bestowed on an individual or unit.


(3) *Badge.* An award given to an individual for identification purposes or that is awarded for attaining a special skill or proficiency. Certain badges are available in full, miniature, and dress miniature sizes.


(4) *Cartoon.* A drawing, six times actual size, showing placement of stitches, color of yarn and number of stitches.


(5) *Certified manufacturer.* A manufacturer who demonstrated the capability to manufacture controlled heraldic items according to Government standards.


(6) *Certificate of authority to manufacture.* A certificate assigning manufacturers a hallmark and authorizing manufacture of heraldic items.


(7) *Decoration.* An award given to an individual as a distinctively designed mark of honor denoting heroism or meritorious or outstanding service or achievement.


(8) *Die.* The block of steel that is used to form a metal insignia and is the intricate three dimensional reversed design of the insignia cut into the surface of a block of steel.


(9) *Hallmark.* A distinguishing mark consisting of a letter and numbers assigned to certified manufacturers for use in identifying manufacturers of insignia.


(10) *Heraldic items.* All items worn on the uniform to indicate unit, skill, branch, award or identification and for which a design has been established by TIOH on an official drawing.


(11) *Heraldic Quality Control Program.* A program that improves the public image of the Army by controlling the quality of insignia purchased from commercial sources.


(12) *Hub.* The block of steel that is used to form a die and is the intricate three dimensional raised design of the insignia cut into the surface of a block of steel.


(13) *Lapel button.* A miniature enameled replica of an award, which is worn only on civilian clothing.


(14) *Letter of agreement.* A letter signed by manufacturers before certification, stating that the manufacturer agrees to produce heraldic items in accordance with specific requirements.


(15) *Letter of authorization.* A letter issued by TIOH that authorizes the manufacture of a specific heraldic item after quality assurance inspection of a preproduction sample.


(16) *Medal.* An award issued to an individual for the performance of certain duties, acts, or services, consisting of a suspension ribbon made in distinctive colors and from which hangs a medallion.


(17) *Rosette.* A lapel device created from gathering the suspension ribbon of a medal into a circular shape. The device is worn on the lapel of civilian clothing.


(18) *Service medal.* An award made to personnel who participated in designated wars, campaigns, or expeditions or who have fulfilled specified service requirements in a creditable manner.


(19) *Tools.* The generic term used for hubs, dies, cartoons, and drawings used in the manufacture of heraldic items.


(20) *Unit award.* An award made to an operating unit, which is worn by members of that unit who participated in the cited action (permanent unit award).




