# § 721.6175   2-Piperdinone, 1,3- dimethyl-,.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-Piperdinone, 1,3-dimethyl-, (PMN P-97-520 and SNUN 00-397; CAS No. 1690-76-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (use or processing other than: in enclosed systems (such as hydrocarbon extraction, polymer synthesis, wire enamel resin); electronic industry cleaning solvent; and other precision industry cleaning (such as automobile manufacturing, aerospace, and optics)), (o), and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The recordkeeping requirements specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this substance.



---

[N] [63 FR 44580, Aug. 20, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 12882, Mar. 20, 2002]




