# ยง 38.10   Conditions of employment of educators.

(a) *Supervision not delegated to school boards.* School boards may not direct, control, or interrupt the day-to-day activities of BIA employees carrying out Bureau-operated education programs.


(b) *Employee handbook.* Employee handbook and recruiting guides shall be developed by each local school or agency to provide specific information regarding:


(1) The working and hiring conditions for various tribal jurisdictions and Bureau locations;


(2) The need for all education personnel to adapt to local situations; and


(3) The requirement of all education personnel to comply with and support duly adopted school board policies, including those relating to tribal culture or language.


(c) *Contract renewal notification.* Employees will be notified 60 calendar days before the end of the school term of the intent to renew or not renew their contract. If an individual's contract is to be renewed, the individual must agree in writing to serve for the next school term. This agreement must be received within 14 calendar days of the date of the notice in order to complete the contract renewal. If this agreement is not received by the fourteenth day, the employee has voluntarily forfeited his or her right to continuing employment. If an individual agrees to serve for the next school term and fails to report for duty at the beginning of the next school term, the contract will be terminated and the individual's future appointment will be subject to the restriction in ยง 38.7(k) of this part.


(d) *Dual compensation.* An employee accepting a renewal of a school term contract may be appointed to another Federal position during the school recess period without regard to the dual compensation regulations in 5 U.S.C. 5533.


(e) *Discrimination complaints.* Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) procedures established under 29 CFR part 1613 are applicable to contract employees under this part. It is the policy of the BIA that all employees and applicants for employment shall be treated equally when considered for employment or benefits of employment, regardless of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, or mental or physical health (handicap), within the parameters of Indian preference.


(f) *Grievance procedures.* The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM procedures for the rapid and equitable resolution of grievances. In locations and for positions covered by an exclusive bargaining agreement, the negotiated grievance procedure is the exclusive avenue of redress for all matters within the scope of the negotiated grievance procedure.


(g) *Performance evaluation.* The minimum number of times a supervisor shall meet with an employee to discuss performance and suggest improvements shall be once every three months for the educator's first year at a school or Agency, and twice annually thereafter during the school term.




