# § 120.710   What is the Loan Loss Reserve Fund?

(a) *General.* The Loan Loss Reserve Fund (“LLRF”) is a Deposit Account which an Intermediary must establish to pay any shortage in the MRF caused by delinquencies or losses on Microloans.


(b) *Level of Loan Loss Reserve Fund.* Until it is in the Microloan program for at least five years, an Intermediary must maintain a balance on deposit in its LLRF equal to 15 percent of the outstanding balance of the notes receivable owed to it by its Microloan borrowers (“Portfolio”). 


(c) *SBA review of Loan Loss Reserve Fund.* After an Intermediary has been in the Microloan program for five years, it may request SBA's appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority to reduce the percentage of its Portfolio which it must maintain in its LLRF to an amount equal to the actual average loan loss rate during the preceding five-year period. Upon receipt of such request, he/she will review the Intermediary's annual loss rate for the most recent five-year period preceding the request.


(d) *Reduction of Loan Loss Reserve Fund.* The appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority has the authority to reduce the percentage of an Intermediary's Portfolio that it must maintain in its LLRF to an amount equal to the actual average loan loss rate during the preceding five-year period. The appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority cannot reduce the LLRF to less than ten percent of the Portfolio.


(e) *What must an intermediary demonstrate to get a reduction in Loan Loss Reserve Fund?* To receive a reduction in its LLRF, an Intermediary must:


(1) Have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Intermediary's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission); and


(2) No other factors exist that may impair the Intermediary's ability to repay all obligations which it owes to the SBA under the Microloan program.



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 17439, Apr. 3, 2000; 73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008; 80 FR 34046, June 15, 2015; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017]




