# § 1033.505   Ambient conditions.

This section specifies the allowable ambient conditions (including temperature and pressure) under which testing may be performed to determine compliance with the emission standards of § 1068.101. Manufacturers/remanufacturers may ask to perform testing at conditions other than those allowed by this section. We will allow such testing provided it does not affect your ability to demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards. See §§ 1033.101 and 1033.115 for more information about the requirements that apply at other conditions.


(a) *Temperature.* (1) Testing may be performed with ambient temperatures from 15.5 °C (60 °F) to 40.5 °C (105 °F). Do not correct emissions for temperature effects within this range.


(2) It is presumed that combustion air will be drawn from the ambient air. Thus, the ambient temperature limits of this paragraph (a) apply for intake air upstream of the engine. If you do not draw combustion air from the ambient air, use good engineering judgment to ensure that any temperature difference (between the ambient air and combustion air) does not cause the emission measurement to be unrepresentative of in-use emissions.


(3) If we allow you to perform testing at ambient temperatures below 15.5 °C, you must correct NO_X_ emissions for temperature effects, consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, if the intake air temperature (at the manifold) is lower at the test temperature than it would be for equivalent operation at an ambient temperature of 15.5 °C, you generally will need to adjust your measured NO_X_ emissions to account for the effect of the lower intake air temperature. However, if you maintain a constant manifold air temperature, you will generally not need to correct emissions.


(b) *Altitude/pressure.* Testing may be performed with ambient pressures from 88.000 kPa (26.0 in Hg) to 103.325 kPa (30.5 in Hg). This is intended to correspond to altitudes up to 4000 feet above sea level. Do not correct emissions for pressure effects within this range.


(c) *Humidity.* Testing may be performed with any ambient humidity level. Correct NO_X_ emissions as specified in 40 CFR 1065.670. Do not correct any other emissions for humidity effects.


(d) *Wind.* If you test outdoors, use good engineering judgment to ensure that excessive wind does not affect your emission measurements. Winds are excessive if they disturb the size, shape, or location of the exhaust plume in the region where exhaust samples are drawn or where the smoke plume is measured, or otherwise cause any dilution of the exhaust. Tests may be conducted if wind shielding is placed adjacent to the exhaust plume to prevent bending, dispersion, or any other distortion of the exhaust plume as it passes through the optical unit or through the sample probe. 



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 22984, Apr. 30, 2010]




