# § 570.42   Non-medical escorted trips.

(a) Non-medical escorted trips allow an inmate to leave the institution under staff escort for approved, non-medical reasons. There are two types of non-medical escorted trips.


(1) *Emergency non-medical escorted trip.* An escorted trip for such purposes as allowing an inmate to attend the funeral of, or to make a bedside visit to, a member of an inmate's immediate family. For purposes of this rule, immediate family refers to mother, father, brother, sister, spouse, children, step-parents, and foster parents.


(2) *Non-emergency, non-medical escorted trip.* An escorted trip for such purposes as allowing inmates to participate in program-related functions, such an educational or religious activities, or in work-related functions.


(b) *Escorted trip procedures—emergency non-medical reasons.* Unit staff are to investigate, and determine, the merits of an escorted trip following a review of the available information. This includes contacting those persons (e.g., attending physician, hospital staff, funeral home staff, family members, U.S. Probation Officer) who can contribute to a determination on whether an escorted trip should be approved.


(1) The government assumes the salary expenses of escort staff for the first eight hours of each day. All other expenses, including transportation costs, are assumed by the inmate, the inmate's family, or other appropriate source approved by the Warden. The necessary funds must be deposited to the inmate's trust fund account prior to the trip. Funds paid by the inmate for purposes of the escorted trip are then drawn, payable to the Treasury of the United States. Unexpended funds are returned to the inmate's trust fund account following the completion of the trip.


(2) A request for an inmate to receive an emergency non-medical escorted trip is prepared by unit staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. Except as specified in § 570.43, the Warden may approve an inmate for an emergency non-medical escorted trip.


(c) *Escorted trip procedures—non-emergency, non-medical reasons.* This type of escorted trip is considered for an inmate who has been at the institution for at least 90 days, and who is considered eligible for less secure housing and for work details, under minimal supervision, outside the institution's perimeter. A recommendation for an inmate to receive an escorted trip for non-emergency, non-medical reasons is prepared by the recommending staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. Except as specified in § 570.43, the Warden may approve an inmate for a non-emergency, non-medical escorted trip.




