# § 500.50   Duration of certificate.

(a) *Initial certificates of farm labor contractors and farm labor contractor employees.* (1) An initial certificate issued under the Act and these regulations shall expire twelve months from the date of issuance unless earlier suspended or revoked.


(2) Certificates applied for during the period beginning April 14, 1983, and ending November 30, 1983, may be issued for a period of up to twenty-four months for the purpose of an orderly transition to registration under the Act.


(3) Certificates issued to employees of farm labor contractors shall expire at the suspension, revocation or expiration of the farm labor contractor's Certificate of Registration under which such employee was authorized.


(b) *Certificate renewal of farm labor contractors and farm labor contractor employees.* (1) A certificate issued under the Act and these regulations may be temporarily extended by the filing of a properly completed and signed application with the Secretary at least thirty days prior to the expiration date. “Filing” may be accomplished by hand delivery, certified mail, or regular mail.


(i) If the application for renewal is filed by regular mail or if it is delivered in person by the applicant, it must be *received* by the Department of Labor or an authorized representative of the Department of Labor at least 30 days prior to the expiration date shown on the current certificate.


(ii) If the application for renewal is filed by certified mail, it must be *mailed* at least 30 days prior to the expiration date shown on the current certificate.


(2) A certificate issued under the Act and these regulations may be renewed by the Secretary for additional twelve-month periods or for periods in excess of twelve months but not in excess of twenty-four months.


(3) Eligibility for renewals of certificates for more than twelve months under the Act and these regulations shall be limited to those farm labor contractors and farm labor contractor employees who have not been cited during the preceding five years for a violation of the Act or any regulation under the Act, or the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act or any regulation under such Act.


(c) *Continuation of certain FLCRA certificates.* (1) Certificates issued under FLCRA, and in effect on April 14, 1983, that are valid for the services performed under FLCRA, will be continued in effect and be accepted as authorization to perform like services under the Act and these regulations for the remainder of calendar year 1983. Such certificates will be subject to the Act and these regulations with respect to determinations to suspend, revoke or refuse renewal.


(2) Actions pending related to the suspension, revocation, or refusal to issue or renew FLCRA certificates shall continue through to a final determination. Any such certificate which is considered to be in effect under title 29 CFR 40.21 pending a final determination, will be considered valid under MSPA, provided application for a certificate under MSPA is made no later than November 30, 1983.



---

[N] [48 FR 36741, Aug. 12, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 13329, Mar. 31, 1989]




