# § 413.312   Methodology for calculating rates.

(a) *Data used.* (1) To calculate the prospectively determined payment rates, CMS uses: 


(i) The SNF cost data that were used to develop the applicable routine service cost limits; 


(ii) A wage index to adjust for area wage differences; and 


(iii) The most recent projections of increases in the costs from the SNF market basket index. 


(2) In the annual schedule of rates published in the _Federal Register_ under the authority of § 413.320, CMS announces the wage index and the annual percentage increases in the market basket used in the calculation of the rates. 


(b) *Calculation of per diem rate*—(1) *Routine operating component of rate*—(i) *Adjusting cost report data.* The SNF market basket index is used to adjust the routine operating cost from the SNF cost report to reflect cost increases occurring between cost reporting periods represented in the data collected and the midpoint of the initial cost reporting period to which the payment rates apply. 


(ii) *Calculating a per diem cost.* For each SNF, an adjusted routine operating per diem cost is computed by dividing the adjusted routine operating cost (see paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) by the SNF's total patient days. 


(iii) *Adjusting for wage levels.* (A) The SNF's adjusted per diem routine operating cost calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section is then divided into labor-related and nonlabor-related portions. 


(B) The labor-related portion is obtained by multiplying the SNF's adjusted per diem routine operating cost by a percentage that represents the labor-related portion of cost from the market basket. This percentage is published when the revised rates are published as described in § 413.320. 


(C) The labor-related portion of each SNF's per diem cost is divided by the wage index applicable to the SNF's geographic location to arrive at the adjusted labor-related portion of routine cost. 


(iv) *Group means.* SNFs are grouped by urban or rural location by census region. Separate means of adjusted labor-related and nonlabor routine operating costs for each SNF group are established in accordance with the SNF's region and urban or rural location. For each group, the mean labor-related and mean nonlabor-related per diem routine operating costs are multiplied by 105 percent. 


(2) *Computation of routine capital-related cost.* (i) The SNF routine capital-related cost for both direct and indirect capital costs allocated to routine services, as reported on the Medicare cost report, is obtained for each SNF in the data base. 


(ii) For each SNF, the per diem capital-related cost is calculated by dividing the SNF's routine capital costs by its inpatient days. 


(iii) SNFs are grouped by urban and rural location by census region, and mean per diem routine capital-related cost is determined for each group. 


(iv) Each group mean per diem capital-related cost is multiplied by 105 percent. 


(3) *Computation of return on owner's equity for services furnished before October 1, 1993.* (i) Each proprietary SNF's Medicare return on equity is obtained from its cost report and the portion attributable to the routine service cost is determined as described in § 413.157. 


(ii) For each proprietary SNF, per diem return on equity is calculated by dividing the routine cost related return on equity determined under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section by the SNF's total Medicare inpatient days. 


(iii) Separate group means are computed for per diem return on equity of proprietary SNFs, based on regional and urban or rural classification. 


(iv) Each group mean is multiplied by 105 percent. 




