# § 151.45-2   Special operating requirements.

(a) The requirements of this section shall apply to all barges carrying in bulk any cargoes regulated by this subchapter; however, the provisions of this section are not applicable to such barges when empty and gas-freed. 


(b) When it is necessary to operate box or square-end barges as lead barges of tows, the person in charge of the towing vessel shall control the speed to insure protection against diving and swamping of such barges, having due regard to their design and freeboard, and to the operating conditions. 


(c) No cargo tank hatch, ullage hole, or tank cleaning openings shall be opened or remain open except under the supervision of the person in charge, except when the tank is gas free. 


(d) Barges, when tendered to the carrier for transportation, shall have all bilges and void spaces (except those used for ballasting) substantially free of water. Periodic inspections and necessary pumping shall be carried out to insure maintenance of such water-free condition in order to minimize the free surface effects, both in longitudinal and transverse directions. Except when otherwise considered necessary for inspection or pumping, all hatch covers and other hull closure devices for void spaces and hull compartments other than cargo spaces shall be closed and secured at all times. 


(e) *Cargo signs and cards.* (1) Warning signs shall be displayed on the vessel, port and starboard, facing outboard without obstructions, at all times except when the vessel is gas free. The warning sign shall be rectangular and a minimum of 3 feet wide and 2 feet high. It shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the required alerting information, which shall be shown in black block style letters and numerals (characters) at least 3 inches high on a white background. The minimum spacing between adjacent words and lines of characters shall be 2 inches. The minimum spacing between adjacent characters shall be one-half inch. All characters shall have a minimum stroke width of one-half inch and shall be a minimum of 2 inches wide, except for the letters “M” and “W”, which shall be a minimum of 3 inches wide, and except for the letter “I” and the Numeral “1”, which may be 
1/2-inch wide. The signs shall have a 2-inch minimum white border clear of characters. The signs shall be maintained legible. The alerting information shall include the following: 


(2)(i) Names and locations of all cargoes will be displayed in a readily discernible manner on all barges carrying one or more commodities regulated by this subchapter. This may be an individual sign at or on each tank or by a single sign similar to the following example:


(ii) When the dangerous cargo barge is carrying only a single product, the Warning Sign required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section can be considered as meeting the requirements for the cargo location sign. The name of the commodity shall be added to the Warning Sign. 


(3) A cargo information card for each cargo regulated by this subchapter shall be carried on the bridge or in the pilot house of the towing vessel, readily available for use by the person in charge of the watch. This information card shall also be carried aboard the barge, mounted near the Warning Sign required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, in such position as to be easily read by a man standing on the deck of the barge. The minimum card size shall be 7″ × 9
1/2″. The card shall have legible printing on one side only. The card shall be laminated in clear plastic or otherwise made weatherproof. The following data shall be listed: 


(i) *Cargo identification and characteristics.* Identification of the cargo, as listed in Table 151.05, its appearance and odor. A statement of the hazards involved and instructions for the safe handling of the cargo and, as applicable, the need for special cargo environments. 


(ii) *Emergency procedures.* Precautions to be observed in the event of spills, leaks, or equipment or machinery breakdown and/or uncontrolled release of the cargo into the waterway or atmosphere. Precautions to be observed in the event of exposure of personnel to toxic cargoes. 


(iii) *Firefighting procedures.* Precautions to be observed in the event of a fire occurring on or adjacent to the barge, and enumeration of firefighting media suitable for use in case of a cargo fire. 


(f) *Surveillance.* During the time the cargo tanks contain any amount of liquid or gaseous dangerous cargoes requiring Type I or Type II barge hulls, the barge shall be under surveillance, as set forth in this paragraph: 


(1) The licensed operator, person in command, and mate of a vessel towing a tank barge that need not be manned, and each of them, shall be responsible for monitoring the security and integrity of the tank barge and for ensuring adherence to proper safety precautions. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to—


(i) Ensuring that every tank barge added to the tow has all tank openings properly secured; has its freeing-ports and scuppers, if any, unobstructed; meets any loadline or freeboard requirements; and neither leaks cargo into the water, voids, or cofferdams nor leaks water into the tanks, voids, or cofferdams; 


(ii) Ensuring that every tank barge in the tow is properly secured within the tow; 


(iii) Ensuring that periodic checks are made of every tank barge in the tow for leakage of cargo into the water, voids, or cofferdams and for leakage of water into the tanks, voids, or cofferdams; 


(iv) Knowing the cargo of every tank barge in the tow, all hazards associated with the cargo, and what to do on discovery of a leak; 


(v) Ensuring that the crew of the vessel know the cargo of every tank barge in the tow, all hazards associated with the cargo, and what to do on discovery of a leak; 


(vi) Reporting to the Coast Guard any leaks from a tank barge in the tow into the water, as required by 33 CFR 151.15; and 


(vii) Ensuring that the crew of the vessel and other personnel in the vicinity of the tank barges in the tow follow the proper safety precautions for tank vessels, and that no activity takes place in the vicinity of the barges that could create a hazard. 


(2) A towing vessel engaged in transporting such unmanned barges shall not leave them unattended. When a barge is moored, but not gas free, it shall be under the care of a watchman who may be a member of the complement of the towing vessel, or a terminal employee, or other person. This person shall be responsible for the security of the barge and for keeping unauthorized persons off the barge. Such person shall be provided with, read, and have in his possession for ready reference the information cards required by paragraph (e) of this section. 


(g) All cargo hatches shall be closed, dogged down, or otherwise tightly secured. 



---

[N] [CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3714, Feb. 25, 1970, as amended by CGD 88-100, 54 FR 40040, Sept. 29, 1989; CGD 79-116, 60 FR 17158, Apr. 4, 1995]




