# ยง 91.55-5   Plans and specifications required for new construction.

(a) *General.* (1) Specifications. 


(2) General Arrangement Plan of decks, holds, inner bottoms, etc., and including inboard and outboard profile. 


(b) *Hull structure.*1 (1) *Inner Bottom Plating and Framing. 


(2) *Midship Section. 


(3) *Shell Plating and Framing. 


(4) *Stem, Stern Frame, and Rudder. 


(5) *Structural Deck Plans for Strength Decks. 


(6) *Pillars and Girders. 


(7) *Watertight and Oiltight Bulkheads. 


(8) *Foundations for Main Machinery and Boilers. 


(9) *Arrangement of Ports, Doors, and Airports in Shell Plating. 


(10) *Hatch Coamings and Covers in Weather and Watertight Decks. 


(11) *Details of Hinged Subdivision Watertight Doors and Operating Gear. 


(12) *Scuppers and Drains Penetrating Shell Plating. 


(13) *Arrangement of the cargo gear including a stress diagram. The principal details of the gear and the safe working load for each component part shall be shown. 


(c) *Subdivision and stability.* Plans and calculations as required by Subchapter S of this chapter.


(d) *Fire control.* (1) General arrangement plans showing for each deck the control stations, the various fire sections enclosed by fire resisting bulkheads, the arrangement of the alarm and extinguishing systems, the fire extinguishers, means of access to different compartments and decks and the ventilation system including location of ventilation shutdowns, positions of dampers and the numbers identifying each system. 


(2) Ventilation diagram including dampers and other fire control features. 


(3) Details of alarm systems. 


(4) Details of extinguishing systems, including fire mains, carbon dioxide, clean agent, foam, and sprinkling systems.


(e) *Marine engineering.* For plans required for marine engineering equipment and systems, see subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter. 


(f) *Electrical engineering.* For plans required for electrical engineering, equipment and systems, see subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter. 


(g) *Lifesaving equipment.* (1) These plans are to show the location and arrangement of embarkation decks, all overboard discharges and projections in way of launching lifeboats, weights of lifeboats fully equipped and loaded, working loads of davits and winches, types and sizes of falls, the manufacturer's name and identification for all equipment, and all other relevant and necessary information. 


(i) Arrangement of lifeboats. 


(ii) Arrangement of davits. 


(iii) Location and stowage of liferafts and buoyant apparatus. 


(h) *Crew's accommodations.* (1) Arrangement plans showing accommodations, ventilation, escapes, hospital, and sanitary facilities for all crewmembers.


(i) *Navigation bridge visibility.* For vessels of 100 meters (328 feet) or more in length contracted for on or after September 7, 1990, a plan must be included which shows how visibility from the navigation bridge will meet the standards contained in ยง 92.03-1 of this subchapter. 



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16974, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGD 79-023, 48 FR 51008, Nov. 4, 1983; CGD 85-099, 55 FR 32248, Aug. 8, 1990; CGD 85-099, 55 FR 40260, Oct. 2, 1990; CGD 88-032, 56 FR 35825, July 29, 1991; 56 FR 46354, Sept. 11, 1991; USCG-2006-24797, 77 FR 33878, June 7, 2012]




