# § 982.503   Payment standard areas, schedule, and amounts.

(a) *Payment standard areas.* (1) Annually, HUD publishes fair market rents (FMRs) for U.S. Postal Service ZIP code areas, metropolitan areas, and nonmetropolitan counties (see 24 CFR 888.113). Within each of these FMR areas, the applicable FMR is:


(i) The HUD-published Small Area FMR for:


(A) Any metropolitan area designated as a Small Area FMR area by HUD in accordance with 24 CFR 888.113(c)(1).


(B) Any area where a PHA has notified HUD that the PHA will voluntarily use SAFMRs in accordance with 24 CFR 888.113(c)(3).


(ii) The HUD-published metropolitan FMR for any other metropolitan area.


(iii) The HUD-published FMR for any other non-metropolitan county.


(2) The PHA must adopt a payment standard schedule that establishes voucher payment standard amounts for each FMR area in the PHA jurisdiction. These payment standard amounts are used to calculate the monthly housing assistance payment for a family (§ 982.505).


(3) The PHA may designate payment standard areas within each FMR area. The PHA may establish different payment standard amounts for such designated areas. If the PHA designates payment standard areas, then it must include in its Administrative Plan the criteria used to determine the designated areas and the payment standard amounts for those areas.


(i) The PHA may designate payment standard areas within which payment standards will be established according to paragraph (c) (basic range) or paragraph (d) (exception payment standard), of this section.


(ii) A PHA-designated payment standard area may be no smaller than a census tract block group.


(b) *Payment standard schedule.* For each payment standard area, the PHA must establish a payment standard amount for each unit size, measured by number of bedrooms (zero-bedroom, one-bedroom, and so on). These payment standard amounts comprise the PHA's payment standard schedule.


(c) *Basic range payment standard amounts.* A basic range payment standard amount is any dollar amount that is in the range from 90 percent up to 110 percent of the published FMR for a unit size.


(1) The PHA may establish a payment standard amount within the basic range without HUD approval or prior notification to HUD.


(2) The PHA's basic range payment standard amount for each unit size may be based on the same percentage of the published FMR (*i.e.,* all payment standard amounts may be set at 100 percent of the FMR), or the PHA may establish different payment standard amounts for different unit sizes (for example, 90 percent for efficiencies, 100 percent for 1-bedroom units, 110 percent for larger units).


(3) The PHA must revise its payment standard amounts and schedule no later than 3 months following the effective date of the published FMR if revisions are necessary to stay within the basic range.


(d) *Exception payment standard amounts.* An exception payment standard amount is a dollar amount that exceeds 110 percent of the published FMR.


(1) The PHA may establish exception payment standard amounts for all units, or for units of a particular size. The exception payment standard may be established for a designated part of the FMR area (called an “exception area”) or for the entire FMR area. The exception area must meet the minimum area requirement at § 982.503(a)(3)(ii).


(2) A PHA that is not in a designated Small Area FMR area or has not opted voluntarily to implement Small Area FMRs under 24 CFR 888.113(c)(3) may establish exception payment standards for a ZIP code area that exceed the basic range for the metropolitan area or county FMR as long as the amounts established by the PHA do not exceed 110 percent of the HUD published SAFMR for the applicable ZIP code. The exception payment standard must apply to the entire ZIP code area. If an exception area crosses one or more FMR boundaries, then the maximum exception payment standard amount that a PHA may adopt for the exception area without HUD approval is 110 percent of the ZIP code area with the lowest SAFMR amount. If the PHA qualifies for an exception payment standard above 110 percent of the applicable FMR under paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section, it may establish exception payment standards up to the same percentage of the SAFMR for the applicable ZIP code.


(3) A PHA may establish exception payment standard amounts between 110 percent and 120 percent of the applicable FMR for such duration as HUD specifies by notice upon notification to HUD that the PHA meets at least one of the following criteria:


(i) Fewer than 75 percent of the families to whom the PHA issued tenant-based rental vouchers during the most recent 12-month period for which there is success rate data available have become participants in the voucher program;


(ii) More than 40 percent of families with tenant-based rental assistance administered by the agency pay more than 30 percent of adjusted income as the family share; or


(iii) Such other criteria as the Secretary establishes by notice.


(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2), (3), and (5) of this section, the PHA must request approval from HUD to establish an exception payment standard amount that exceeds 110 percent of the applicable FMR. In its request to HUD, the PHA must provide rental market data demonstrating that the requested exception payment standard amount is needed for families to access rental units. The rental market data must include a rent estimate for the entire FMR area compared with a rent estimate for the proposed exception area. To apply the exception payment standard to the entire FMR area, the rental market data provided by the PHA must also provide data that demonstrates that the annual percentage of rent inflation in the FMR area is greater than the rental inflation adjustment factor in the calculation of the published FMR. Once HUD has approved the exception payment standard for the requesting PHA, any other PHA with jurisdiction in the HUD approved exception payment standard area may also use the exception payment standard amount.


(5) If required as a reasonable accommodation in accordance with 24 CFR part 8 for a person with a disability, the PHA may establish, without HUD approval or prior notification to HUD, an exception payment standard amount for an individual family that does not exceed 120 percent of the applicable FMR. A PHA may establish a payment standard greater than 120 percent of the applicable FMR as a reasonable accommodation for a person with a disability in accordance with 24 CFR part 8, after requesting and receiving HUD approval.


(e) *Payment standard amount below 90 percent of the applicable FMR.* HUD may consider a PHA request for approval to establish a payment standard amount that is lower than the basic range. At HUD's sole discretion, HUD may approve PHA establishment of a payment standard lower than the basic range. In determining whether to approve the PHA request, HUD will consider appropriate factors, including rent burden of families assisted under the program. Unless it is necessary to prevent termination of program participants, HUD will not approve a lower payment standard if the proposed payment standard would, if it were used to calculate the housing assistance payments for current participants in the PHA's voucher program using currently available data, cause the family share for more than 40 percent of participants with tenant-based rental assistance to exceed 30 percent of adjusted monthly income.


(f) *Phaseout of success rate payment standard amounts.* HUD will no longer approve success rate payment standards. However, a PHA that was approved to establish a success rate payment standard amount under this paragraph as in effect prior to June 6, 2024 shall not be required to reduce such payment standard amount as a result of the discontinuance of success rate payment standards.


(g) *Payment standard protection for PHAs that meet deconcentration objectives.* This paragraph applies only to a PHA with jurisdiction in an FMR area where the FMR had previously been set at the 50th percentile rent to provide a broad range of housing opportunities throughout a metropolitan area, pursuant to 24 CFR 888.113(i)(3), but is now set at the 40th percentile rent.


(1) Such a PHA may obtain HUD Field Office approval of a payment standard amount based on the 50th percentile rent if the PHA scored the maximum number of points on the deconcentration bonus indicator in 24 CFR 985.3(h) in the prior year, or in two of the last three years.


(2) HUD approval of payment standard amounts based on the 50th percentile rent shall be for all unit sizes in the FMR area that had previously been set at the 50th percentile rent pursuant to 24 CFR 888.113(i)(3). A PHA may opt to establish a payment standard amount based on the 50th percentile rent for one or more unit sizes in all or a designated part of the PHA jurisdiction within the FMR area.


(h) *HUD review of PHA payment standard schedules.* (1) HUD will monitor rent burdens of families assisted with tenant-based rental assistance in a PHA's voucher program. HUD will review the PHA's payment standard for a particular unit size if HUD finds that 40 percent or more of such families occupying units of that unit size currently pay more than 30 percent of adjusted monthly income as the family share. Such determination may be based on the most recent examinations of family income.


(2) After such review, HUD may, at its discretion, require the PHA to modify payment standard amounts for any unit size on the PHA payment standard schedule. HUD may require the PHA to establish an increased payment standard amount within the basic range.







---

[N] [89 FR 38300, May 7, 2024]








