# § 14.100   List of standing advisory committees.

Standing advisory committees and the dates of their establishment are as follows:


(a) *Office of the Commissioner*—(1) *Science Board to the Food and Drug Administration.*

(i) Date established: June 26, 1992.


(ii) Function: The board shall provide advice primarily to the agency's Senior Science Advisor and, as needed, to the Commissioner and other appropriate officials on specific complex and technical issues as well as emerging issues within the scientific community in industry and academia. Additionally, the board will provide advice to the agency on keeping pace with technical and scientific evolutions in the fields of regulatory science; on formulating an appropriate research agenda; and on upgrading its scientific and research facilities to keep pace with these changes. It will also provide the means for critical review of agency sponsored intramural and extramural scientific research programs.


(2) *Pediatric Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: June 18, 2004.


(ii) Function: Advises on pediatric therapeutics, pediatric research, and other matters involving pediatrics for which the Food and Drug Administration has regulatory responsibility.


(3) *Risk Communication Advisory Committee.* (i) Date rechartered: July 9, 2009.


(ii) Function: The committee reviews and evaluates strategies and programs designed to communicate with the public about the risks and benefits of FDA-regulated products so as to facilitate optimal use of these products. The committee also reviews and evaluates research relevant to such communication to the public by both FDA and other entities. It also facilitates interactively sharing risk and benefit information with the public to enable people to make informed independent judgments about use of FDA-regulated products.


(4) *Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee.* (i) Date Established: August 12, 2009.


(ii) Function: The committee reviews and evaluates safety, dependence, and health issues relating to tobacco products and provides appropriate advice, information, and recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. Specifically, the committee will submit reports and recommendations on tobacco-related topics, including: The impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, including such use among children, African Americans, Hispanics and other racial and ethnic minorities; the nature and impact of the use of dissolvable tobacco products on the public health, including such use on children; the effects of the alteration of nicotine yields from tobacco products and whether there is a threshold level below which nicotine yields do not produce dependence on the tobacco product involved; and any application submitted by a manufacturer for a modified risk tobacco product. The committee may provide recommendations to the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding any regulations to be issued under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and may review any applications for new tobacco products or petitions for exemption under section 906(e) of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. The committee may consider and provide recommendations on any other matter as provided in the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act.


(b) *Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research*—(1) *Cellular, Tissue and Gene Therapies Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: October 28, 1988.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates available data relating to the safety, effectiveness, and appropriate use of human cells, human tissues, gene transfer therapies and xenotransplantation products which are intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion, and transfer in the prevention and treatment of a broad spectrum of human diseases and in the reconstruction, repair or replacement of tissues for various conditions. The Committee also considers the quality and relevance of FDA's research program which provides scientific support for the regulation of these products, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.


(2) *Blood Products Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: May 13, 1980.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness, and appropriate use of blood products intended for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of human diseases.


(3) *Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee*—


(i) Date established: December 31, 1979.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of vaccines intended for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of human diseases.


(c) *Center for Drug Evaluation and Research*—(1) *Anesthetic and Analgesic Drug Products Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: May 1, 1978.


(ii) *Function:* Reviews and evaluates data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products including analgesics, *e.g.,* abuse-deterrent opioids, novel analgesics, and issues related to opioid abuse, and those for use in anesthesiology.


(2) *Antimicrobial Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: October 7, 1980.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in the treatment of infectious diseases and disorders.


(3) *Arthritis Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: April 5, 1974.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in arthritic conditions.


(4) *Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: August 27, 1970.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in cardiovascular and renal disorders.


(5) *Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: October 7, 1980.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in the treatment of dermatologic and ophthalmic disorders.


(6) *Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: May 31, 1978.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on risk management plans, provides active surveillance methodologies, trademark studies, methodologies for risk management communication, and related issues.


(7) *Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: August 27, 1970.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in endocrine and metabolic disorders.


(8) *Obstetrics, Reproductive and Urologic Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: March 23, 1978.


(ii) Function: The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in the practice of obstetrics, gynecology, urology and related specialties, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.


(9) *Gastrointestinal Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: March 3, 1978.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in gastrointestinal diseases.


(10) *Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: September 1, 1978.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in treatment of cancer.


(11) *Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: June 4, 1974.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in neurological disease.


(12) *Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: June 4, 1974.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in the practice of psychiatry and related fields.


(13) *Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: February 17, 1972.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in the treatment of pulmonary disease and diseases with allergic and/or immunologic mechanisms.


(14) *Medical Imaging Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: May 18, 2011.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products for use in diagnostic and therapeutic procedures using radioactive pharmaceuticals and contrast media used in diagnostic radiology.


(15) *Pharmaceutical Science and Clinical Pharmacology Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: January 22, 1990.


(ii) Function: The committee shall provide advice on scientific, clinical and technical issues related to safety and effectiveness of drug products for use in the treatment of a broad spectrum of human diseases, the quality characteristics which such drugs purport or are represented to have and as required, any other product for which the Food and Drug Administration has regulatory responsibility, and make appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. The Committee may also review agency sponsored intramural and extramural biomedical research programs in support of FDA's drug regulatory responsibilities and its critical path initiatives related to improving the efficacy and safety of drugs and improving the efficiency of drug development.


(16) *Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: August 27, 1991.


(ii) Functions: The committee reviews and evaluates available data concerning the safety and effectiveness of over-the-counter (nonprescription) human drug products for use in the treatment of a broad spectrum of human symptoms and diseases.


(17) *Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee.* (i) Date re-established: April 25, 2012.


(ii) Function: Provides advice on scientific, technical, and medical issues concerning drug compounding under sections 503A and 503B of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and, as required, any other product for which the Food and Drug Administration has regulatory responsibility, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.




(18) *Genetic Metabolic Diseases Advisory Committee.*

(i) Date Established: December 12, 2023.


(ii) Function: Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug and biologic products for use in the treatment of genetic metabolic diseases and makes appropriate recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.




(d) *Center for Devices and Radiological Health*—(1) *Medical Devices Advisory Committee.* (i) *Date established:* October 27, 1990.


(ii) *Function:* Reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation.


(2) *Device Good Manufacturing Practice Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: May 17, 1987.


(ii) Function: Reviews proposed regulations for good manufacturing practices governing the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, packing, storage, and installation of devices, and makes recommendations on the feasibility and reasonableness of the proposed regulations.


(3) *Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee.* (i) Date established: October 18, 1968.


(ii) Function: Advises on technical feasibility, reasonableness, and practicability of performance standards for electronic products to control the emission of radiation under 42 U.S.C. 263f(f)(1)(A).


(4) *National Mammography Quality Assurance Advisory Committee.* (i) Date established: July 6, 1993.


(ii) Function: Advises on developing appropriate quality standards and regulations for the use of mammography facilities.


(5) *Patient Engagement Advisory Committee.* (i) Date Established: October 6, 2015.


(ii) Function: Provides advice to the Commissioner on complex issues relating to medical devices, the regulation of devices, and their use by patients. Agency guidance and policies, clinical trial or registry design, patient preference study design, benefit-risk determinations, device labeling, unmet clinical needs, available alternatives, patient reported outcomes, and device-related quality of life or health status issues are among the topics that may be considered by the Committee. The Committee provides relevant skills and perspectives in order to improve communication of benefits, risks, and clinical outcomes, and increase integration of patient perspectives into the regulatory process for medical devices. It performs its duties by identifying new approaches, promoting innovation, recognizing unforeseen risks or barriers, and identifying unintended consequences that could result from FDA policy.


(6) Digital Health Advisory Committee.


(i) Date established: October 11, 2023.


(ii) Function: Advises the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or designee in discharging responsibilities as they relate to ensuring that digital health technologies (DHTs) intended for use as a stand-alone medical product, as part of a medical product, or as a companion, complement, or adjunct to a medical product are safe and effective for human use.







---

[N] [54 FR 9036, Mar. 3, 1989]


