# ยง 160.049-3   Materials.

(a) *General.* All components used in the construction of buoyant cushions must meet the applicable requirements of subpart 164.019.


(b) *Unicellular plastic foam.* The unicellular plastic foam shall be all new material complying with the requirements of Specification subpart 164.015 for Type A or B foam.


(c) *Cover.* Cotton fabrics and coated upholstery cloth meeting the minimum requirements set forth in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, are acceptable for use as covers for buoyant cushions. Vinyl-dip coating meeting the requirements set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section will also be acceptable. Alternate materials will be given special consideration. Pro rata widths of like construction will be acceptable.


(1) *Cotton fabrics.* Cotton fabrics shall comply with the requirements of Federal Specification CCC-C-426 for Type I, Class 3 material.


(2) *Coated upholstery cloth.* Coated upholstery cloth shall comply with the requirements of Federal Specification CCC-A-700.


(3) *Vinyl-dip.* The vinyl-dip coating shall comply with the coating requirements of ยง 160.055-5(b)(2) except there are no color restrictions.


(4) *Adhesive.* The adhesive shall be an all-purpose waterproof vinyl type. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. EC-870 or EC-1070, United States Rubber Co. M6256, Herculite Protective Fabrics Corp. CVV, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. R.828, or equal, are acceptable.


(5) *Reinforcing fabric.* The reinforcing fabric shall be type II, class I, laminated vinyl-nylon high strength cloth in accordance with the requirements of Specification MIL-C-43006.


(d) *Grab Straps.* The grab straps shall be of materials permitted for the cover, or approved equivalent.


(e) *Thread.* Each thread must meet the requirements of subpart 164.023 of this chapter. Only one kind of thread may be used in each seam.


(f) *Welting.* The welting where used may be of any fiber or plastic material suitable for the purpose.



---

[N] [CGFR 65-37, 30 FR 11586, Sept. 10, 1965, as amended by CGFR 70-143, 35 FR 19964, Dec. 30, 1970; CGD 78-012, 43 FR 27154, June 22, 1978; CGD 84-068, 58 FR 29493, May 20, 1993]




