# § 721.10201   Cobalt lithium manganese nickel oxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as cobalt lithium manganese nickel oxide (PMN P-04-269; CAS No. 182442-95-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 150. The following NIOSH-certified respirators meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4): Supplied-air respirator operated in positive pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece. As an alternative to the respirator requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator may request to do as under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those listed in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2), (g)(3), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [76 FR 48001, Aug. 8, 2011]




