# § 127.503   When is a contracting officer authorized to restrict competition or award a sole source contract or order under this part?

(a) *Competition restricted to EDWOSBs.* For requirements in industries designated by SBA as underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may restrict competition to EDWOSBs if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation based on market research that:


(1) Two or more EDWOSBs will submit offers for the contract; and


(2) Contract award may be made at a fair and reasonable price.


(b) *Competition restricted to WOSBs.* For requirements in industries designated by SBA as substantially underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may restrict competition to WOSBs if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation based on market research that:


(1) Two or more WOSBs will submit offers (this includes EDWOSBs, which are also WOSBs); and


(2) Contract award may be made at a fair and reasonable price.


(c) *Sole source awards to EDWOSBs.* For requirements in industries designated by SBA as underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may issue a sole source award to an EDWOSB when the contacting officer determines that:


(1) The EDWOSB is a responsible contractor with respect to performance of the requirement and the contracting officer does not have a reasonable expectation that 2 or more EDWOSBs will submit offers;


(2) The anticipated award price of the contract (including options) will not exceed $7,000,000 in the case of a contract assigned a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for manufacturing, or $4,500,000 in the case of any other contract opportunity; and


(3) In the estimation of the contracting officer, the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.


(d) *Sole source awards to WOSBs.* For requirements in industries designated by SBA as substantially underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may issue a sole source award to a WOSB when the contacting officer determines that:


(1) The WOSB is a responsible contractor with respect to performance of the requirement and the contracting officer does not have a reasonable expectation that 2 or more WOSBs will submit offers;


(2) The anticipated award price of the contract (including options) will not exceed $7,000,000 in the case of a contract assigned a NAICS code for manufacturing, or $4,500,000 in the case of any other contract opportunity; and


(3) In the estimation of the contracting officer, the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.


(e) *Competitions requiring or favoring additional socioeconomic certifications.* A procuring activity cannot restrict a WOSB or EDWOSB competition (for either a contract or order) to require SBA socioeconomic certifications other than WOSB/EDWOSB certification (*i.e.,* a competition cannot be limited only to business concerns that are both WOSB/EDWOSB and 8(a), WOSB/EDWOSB and HUBZone, or WOSB/EDWOSB and SDVO) or give evaluation preferences to firms having one or more other certifications.


(f) *8(a) BD requirements.* A contracting officer may not restrict competition to eligible EDWOSBs or WOSBs if an 8(a) BD Participant is currently performing the requirement under the 8(a) BD Program or SBA has accepted the requirement for performance under the authority of the 8(a) BD program, unless SBA consented to release the requirement from the 8(a) BD program.


(g) *Contracting Among Small Business Programs.* (1) *Acquisitions Valued At or Below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.* The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Micro-purchase Threshold but not exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. This requirement does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB Programs.


(2) *Acquisitions Valued Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.* (i) The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's certifications in SAM (or any successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.


(ii) SBA believes that Progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.


(h) *Contract file.* When restricting competition to WOSBs or EDWOSBs in accordance with § 127.503, the contracting officer must document the contract file accordingly, including the type and extent of market research and the fact that the NAICS code assigned to the contract is for an industry that SBA has designated as an underrepresented or, with respect to WOSBs, substantially underrepresented, industry. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's documents and certifications in SAM (or any successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.



---

[N] [75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 1861, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 26506, May 7, 2013; 78 FR 61147, Oct. 2, 2013; 79 FR 31849, June 3, 2014; 80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015; 83 FR 12852, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020; 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 61673, Nov. 8, 2021; 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]




