# § 1150.45   Procedures and relevant dates—transactions under section 10902 that involve creation of Class I or Class II rail carriers.

(a) To qualify for this exemption, applicant must serve a notice of intent to file a notice of exemption no later than 14 days before the notice of exemption is filed with the Board, and applicant must comply with the notice requirement of § 1150.42(e).


(b) The notice of intent must contain all the information required in § 1150.43 plus: 


(1) A general statement of service intentions; and 


(2) A general statement of labor impacts. 


(c) The notice of intent must be served on: 


(1) The Governor of each state in which track is to be sold; 


(2) The state(s) Department of Transportation or equivalent agency; 


(3) The national offices of the labor unions with employees on the affected line(s); and 


(4) Shippers representing at least 50 percent of the volume of local traffic and traffic originating or terminating on the line(s) in the most recent 12 months for which data are available (beginning with the largest shipper and working down). 


(d) Applicant must also file a verified notice of exemption conforming to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and of § 1150.44, and certify compliance with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, attaching a copy of the notice of intent. 

(e) The exemption will be effective 45 days after the notice is filed. The Board, through the Director of the Office of Proceedings, will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ within 16 days of the filing. 


(f) If the notice contains false or misleading information, the exemption is void *ab initio.* A petition to revoke under 49 U.S.C. 10502(d) does not automatically stay the transaction. Stay petitions must be filed at least 14 days before the exemption becomes effective. Replies will be due 7 days thereafter. To be considered, stay petitions must be timely served on the applicant. 


(g) Applicant must preserve intact all sites and structures more than 50 years old until compliance with the requirements of section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 470f, is achieved.



---

[N] [61 FR 32355, June 24, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 47584, Sept. 10, 1997; 71 FR 62213, Oct. 24, 2006; 84 FR 12945, Apr. 3, 2019]




