# § 1665.5   Appeals.

(a) If the requester is dissatisfied with the SSS response, the requester can appeal an adverse determination denying the request to the appellate authority listed in the notification of denial letter. The appeal must be made in writing or electronically (as specified in § 1665.1(a)), and it must be postmarked (or sent by email) within 60 calendar days of the date of the letter denying the initial request for records or amendment of information. The appeal should include a copy of the SSS determination (including the assigned request number, if known). For the quickest possible handling, the appeal whether in writing or by email should specify that it is a “Privacy Act Appeal.” If the requester is dissatisfied with the SSS response, the requester can appeal an adverse determination denying an initial request to access or amend a record in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1665.2 and 1665.4. The requester should submit the appeal in writing or electronically (as specified in § 1665.1(a)) and, to the extent possible, include the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of their appeal should contact the records manager at the address provided herein.


(b) The appeal should contain a brief description of the record involved or in lieu thereof, copies of the correspondence from SSS in which the request to access or to amend was denied and also the reasons why the requester believes that access should be granted or the disputed information amended. The appeal should make reference to the information furnished by the individual in support of his claim and the reasons as required by §§ 1665.2 and 1665.4 set forth by SSS in its decision denying access or amendment. Appeals filed without a complete statement by the requester setting forth the reasons for review will, of course, be processed. However, in order to make the appellate process as meaningful as possible, the requester's disagreement should be set forth in an understandable manner. In order to avoid the unnecessary retention of personal information, SSS reserves the right to dispose of the material concerning the request to access or amend a record if no appeal in accord with this section is received by SSS within 180 days of the mailing by SSS of its decision upon an initial request. A appeal received after the 180 day period may, at the discretion of the records manager, be treated as an initial request to access or amend a record.


(c) The appeal should be addressed to the Director of Selective Service.




(d) The appellant will be notified of the decision on his or her appeal in writing or by email within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays) from the date of receipt by SSS of the individual's request for review unless the *appeal authority* extends the 20 days period for good cause. The extension and the reasons therefore will be sent by SSS to the requester within the initial 20-day period. Such extensions should not be routine and should not normally exceed an additional 30 days. If the decision affirms the adverse determination in whole or in part, the notification will include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the affirmation, including any exemptions applied, and will inform the appellant of the Privacy Act provisions for judicial review of the appellate authority's decision, a description of the steps the individual may take to obtain judicial review of such a decision, a statement that the individual may file a concise statement with SSS setting forth the individual's reasons for his disagreement with the decision, and the procedures for filing such a statement of disagreement. The Director of Selective Service has the authority to determine the *conciseness* of the statement, *considering* the scope of the disagreement and the complexity of the issues. Upon the filing of a proper, concise statement by the individual, any subsequent disclosure of the information in dispute will be clearly noted so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent, which shall include a copy of the concise statement furnished and a concise statement by SSS setting forth its reasons for not making the requested changes, if SSS chooses to file such a statement. A notation of a dispute is required to be made only if an individual informs SSS of their disagreement with its determination in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. A copy of the individual's statement, and if it chooses, SSS's statement will be sent to any prior transferee of the disputed information who is listed on the accounting required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(c). If the reviewing official determines that the record should be amended in accord with the individual's request, SSS will promptly correct the record, advise the individual, and inform previous recipients if an accounting of the disclosure was made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c). The notification of correction pertains to information actually disclosed. If the adverse determination is reversed or modified, in whole or in part, the appellant will be notified in writing of this decision and the request will be reprocessed in accordance with that appeal decision.


(e) In order to seek a judicial review of a denial of a request for access to records, a requester must first file an appeal under this section.


(f) An appeal ordinarily will not be acted on if the request becomes a matter of litigation.



---

[N] [47 FR 7224, Feb. 18, 1982, as amended at 89 FR 35005, May 1, 2024]






