# § 63.497   Back-end process provisions—monitoring provisions for control and recovery devices used to comply with residual organic HAP limitations.

(a) An owner or operator complying with the residual organic HAP limitations in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3) using control or recovery devices, or a combination of stripping and control or recovery devices, shall install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, as appropriate.




(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.


(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.


(2) Where a flare is used, except as specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, a device (including, but not limited to, a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required.




(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts design heat input capacity is used, a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.


(4) For an absorber, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device are required, each equipped with a continuous recorder.


(5) For a condenser, a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.


(6) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, for a carbon adsorber, an integrating regeneration steam flow, nitrogen flow, or pressure monitoring device having an accuracy of at least ±10 percent of the flow rate, level, or pressure, capable of recording the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure (gauge or absolute) for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle are required.




(7) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (a)(2) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.




(8) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), if the owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then the owner or operator must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.


(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (a)(8)(iii)(B) of this section. The owner or operator must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.


(iii) Comply with paragraph (a)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (a)(8)(iii)(B) of this section.


(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.482, is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph, “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. The owner or operator must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.


(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.




(b) An owner or operator may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required by paragraph (a) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.506(f) or (g). Approval shall be requested if the owner or operator:


(1) Uses a control or recovery device other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section; or


(2) Uses one of the control or recovery devices listed in paragraph (a) of this section, but seeks to monitor a parameter other than those specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) The owner or operator shall establish a level, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter, that indicates proper operation of the control or recovery device for each parameter monitored under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section. This level is determined in accordance with § 63.505. The established level, along with supporting documentation, shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application, as required in § 63.506(e)(5) or (e)(8), respectively. The owner or operator shall operate control and recovery devices so that the daily average value is above or below the established level, as required, to ensure continued compliance with the standard, except as otherwise stated in this subpart. 


(d) The owner or operator of an affected source with a controlled back-end process vent using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control or recovery device used to comply with § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.




(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.498(d)(5)(iii). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere; or


(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.


(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n):


(i) The use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions (subject to the emission standards in § 63.487) to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in this subpart is an emissions standards violation.


(ii) The last sentence in paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies. Instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section apply.


(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.165(e)(4) of subpart H of this part, equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.


(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.





---

[N] [62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38067, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22591, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43252, May 16, 2024]




