# § 301.7701(i)-4   Special rules for certain entities.

(a) *States and municipalities*—(1) *In general.* Regardless of whether an entity satisfies any of the requirements of section 7701(i)(2)(A), an entity is not classified as a taxable mortgage pool if—


(i) The entity is a State, territory, a possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any political subdivision thereof (within the meaning of § 1.103-1(b) of this chapter), or is empowered to issue obligations on behalf of one of the foregoing;


(ii) The entity issues the debt obligations in the performance of a governmental purpose; and


(iii) The entity holds the remaining interests in all assets that support those debt obligations until the debt obligations issued by the entity are retired.


(2) *Governmental purpose.* The term governmental purpose means an essential governmental function within the meaning of section 115. A governmental purpose does not include the mere packaging of debt obligations for re-sale on the secondary market even if any profits from the sale are used in the performance of an essential governmental function.


(3) *Determinations by the Commissioner.* If an entity is not described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but has a similar purpose, then the Commissioner may determine that the entity is not classified as a taxable mortgage pool.


(b) *REITs.* [Reserved]


(c) *Subchapter S corporations*—(1) *In general.* An entity that is classified as a taxable mortgage pool may not elect to be an S corporation under section 1362(a) or maintain S corporation status.


(2) *Portion of an S corporation treated as a separate corporation.* An S corporation is not treated as a member of an affiliated group under section 1361(b)(2)(A) solely because a portion of the S corporation is treated as a separate corporation under section 7701(i).



---

[N] [T.D. 8610, 60 FR 40092, Aug. 7, 1995]




