# § 1212.17   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) Every manufacturer and importer of lighters subject to the standard shall maintain the following records in English on paper, microfiche, or similar media and make such records available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission in accordance with section 16(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b). Such records must also be kept in the United States and provided to the Commission within 48 hours of receipt of a request from any employee of the Commission, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Legible copies of original records may be used to comply with these requirements.


(1) Records of qualification testing, including a description of the tests, photograph(s) or a video tape for a single pair of children from each 100-child test panel to show how the lighter was held in the tester's hand, and the orientation of the tester's body and hand to the children, during the demonstration, the dates of the tests, the data required by § 1212.4(d), the actual surrogate lighters tested, and the results of the tests, including video tape records, if any. These records shall be kept for a period of 3 years after the production of the particular model to which such tests relate has ceased. If requalification tests are undertaken in accordance with § 1212.14(c), the original qualification test results may be discarded 3 years after the requalification testing, and the requalification test results and surrogates, and the other information required in this subsection for qualifications tests, shall be kept in lieu thereof.


(2) Records of procedures used for production testing required by this subpart B, including a description of the types of tests conducted (in sufficient detail that they may be replicated), the production interval selected, the sampling scheme, and the pass/reject criterion. These records shall be kept for a period of 3 years after production of the lighter has ceased.


(3) Records of production testing, including the test results, the date and location of testing, and records of corrective actions taken, which in turn includes the specific actions taken to improve the design or manufacture or to correct any noncomplying lighter, the date the actions were taken, the test result or failure that triggered the actions, and the additional actions taken to ensure that the corrective action had the intended effect. These records shall be kept for a period of 3 years following the date of testing. Records of production testing results may be kept on paper, microfiche, computer tape, or other retrievable media. Where records are kept on computer tape or other retrievable media, however, the records shall be made available to the Commission on paper copies upon request. A manufacturer or importer of a lighter that is not manufactured in the United States may maintain the production records required by this paragraph (a)(3) outside the United States, but shall make such records available to the Commission in the United States within 1 week of a request from a Commission employee for access to those records under section 16(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2065(b).


(4) Records of specifications required under § 1212.15 shall be kept for 3 years after production of each lighter model has ceased.


(b) *Reporting.* At least 30 days before it first imports or distributes in commerce any model of lighter subject to the standard, every manufacturer and importer must provide a written report to the Office of Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Room 610, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4408. Such report shall include:


(1) The name, address, and principal place of business of the manufacturer or importer,


(2) A detailed description of the lighter model and the child-resistant feature(s) used in that model,


(3) A description of the qualification testing, including a description of the surrogate lighters tested (including a description of the point in the operation at which the surrogate will signal operation—e.g., the distance by which a trigger must be moved), the specification of the surrogate lighter required by § 1212.15, a summary of the results of all such tests, the dates the tests were performed, the location(s) of such tests, and the identity of the organization that conducted the tests,


(4) An identification of the place or places that the lighters were or will be manufactured,


(5) The location(s) where the records required to be maintained by paragraph (a) of this section are kept, and


(6) A prototype or production unit of that lighter model.


(c) *Confidentiality.* Persons who believe that any information required to be submitted or made available to the Commission is trade secret or otherwise confidential shall request that the information be considered exempt from disclosure by the Commission, in accordance with 16 CFR 1015.18. Requests for confidentiality of records provided to the Commission will be handled in accordance with section 6(a)(2) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(2), the Freedom of Information Act as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Commission's regulations under that act, 16 CFR part 1015.




