# § 173.154   Exceptions for Class 8 (corrosive materials).

(a) *General.* Exceptions for hazardous materials shipments in the following paragraphs are permitted only if this section is referenced for the specific hazardous material in the § 172.101 table of this subchapter.


(b) *Limited quantities.* Limited quantities of corrosive material (Class 8) in Packing Groups II and III are excepted from labeling requirements, unless the material is offered for transportation or transported by aircraft, and are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged in combination packagings according to this paragraph. For transportation by aircraft, the package must also conform to the applicable requirements of § 173.27 of this part (*e.g.,* authorized materials, inner packaging quantity limits and closure securement) and only hazardous material authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. A limited quantity package that conforms to the provisions of this section is not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter, unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel, and is eligible for the exceptions provided in § 173.156 of this part. In addition, shipments of limited quantities are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter. Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight. Except for transportation by aircraft, the following combination packagings are authorized:


(1) For corrosive materials in Packing Group II, inner packagings not over 1.0 L (0.3 gallon) net capacity each for liquids or not over 1.0 kg (2.2 pounds) net capacity each for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.


(2) For corrosive materials in Packing Group III, inner packagings not over 5.0 L (1.3 gallons) net capacity each for liquids or not over 5.0 kg (11 lbs) net capacity each for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.


(c) [Reserved]

(d) *Materials corrosive to aluminum or steel only.* Except for a hazardous substance, a hazardous waste, or a marine pollutant, a material classed as a Class 8, Packing Group III, material solely because of its corrosive effect—


(1) On aluminum is not subject to any other requirements of this subchapter when transported by motor vehicle or rail car in a packaging constructed of materials that will not react dangerously with or be degraded by the corrosive material; or


(2) On steel is not subject to any other requirements of this subchapter when transported by motor vehicle or rail car in a bulk packaging constructed of materials that will not react dangerously with or be degraded by the corrosive material.


(e) *Reverse logistics.* Hazardous materials meeting the definition of “reverse logistics” under § 171.8 of this subchapter and in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section may be offered for transport and transported in highway transportation in accordance with § 173.157.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52634, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66270, Dec. 20, 1991; 57 FR 45463, Oct. 1, 1992; Amdt. 173-231, 57 FR 52940, Nov. 5, 1992; 68 FR 45033, July 31, 2003; 69 FR 76157, Dec. 20, 2004; 71 FR 14603, Mar. 22, 2006; 72 FR 55693, Oct. 1, 2007; 76 FR 3374, Jan. 19, 2011; ; 78 FR 1114, Jan. 7, 2013; 81 FR 18539, Mar. 31, 2016; 87 FR 79776, Dec. 27, 2022]




