# § 9.12   Contractor requirements and prerogatives.

(a) *General*—(1) *No filling of employment openings prior to right of first refusal.* Except as provided under the exclusion listed in § 9.4(b) or the exceptions listed in paragraph (c) of this section, a successor contractor or subcontractor must not fill any employment openings for positions subject to the SCA under the contract prior to making good faith offers of employment (*i.e.,* a right of first refusal to employment on the contract), in positions for which the employees are qualified, to those employees employed under the predecessor contract whose employment will be terminated as a result of award of the successor contract or the expiration of the contract under which the employees were hired. To the extent necessary to meet its anticipated staffing pattern and in accordance with the requirements described in this part, the contractor and its subcontractors must make a bona fide, express offer of employment to each employee to a position for which the employee is qualified and must state the time within which the employee must accept such offer. In no case may the contractor or subcontractor give an employee fewer than 10 business days to consider and accept the offer of employment.


(2) *Right of first refusal exists when no seniority list is available.* The successor contractor's obligation to offer a right of first refusal exists even if the successor contractor has not been provided a list of the predecessor contractor's and subcontractor(s)' employees or if the list does not contain the names of all persons employed during the final month of contract performance.


(3) *Determining eligibility.* While a person's entitlement to a job offer under this part usually will be based on whether the person is named on the certified list of all service employees working under the predecessor's contract or subcontracts during the last month of contract performance, a contractor must also accept other reliable evidence of an employee's entitlement to a job offer under this part. For example, even if a person's name does not appear on the list of employees on the predecessor contract, an employee's assertion of an assignment to work on the predecessor contract during the predecessor's last month of performance, coupled with contracting agency staff verification, could constitute reliable evidence of an employee's entitlement to a job offer under this part. Similarly, an employee could demonstrate eligibility by producing a paycheck stub identifying the work location and dates worked or otherwise reflecting that the employee worked on the predecessor contract during the last month of performance.


(4) *Obligation to ensure proper placement of contract clause.* A contractor or subcontractor has an affirmative obligation to ensure its covered contract contains the contract clause. The contractor or subcontractor must notify the contracting officer as soon as possible if the contracting officer did not incorporate the required contract clause into a contract.


(b) *Method of job offer*—(1) *Bona-fide offers to qualified employees.* Except as otherwise provided in this part, a contractor must make a bona fide, express offer of employment to each qualified employee on the predecessor contract before offering employment on the contract to any other service employee. In determining whether an employee is entitled to a bona fide, express offer of employment, a contractor may consider the exceptions set forth in paragraph (c) of this section and the conditions detailed in paragraph (d) of this section. A contractor may only use employment screening processes (e.g., drug tests, background checks, security clearance checks, and similar pre-employment screening mechanisms) when such processes are provided for by the contracting agency, are conditions of the service contract, and are consistent with the Executive order. While the results of such screenings may show that an employee is unqualified for a position and thus not entitled to an offer of employment, a contractor may not use the requirement of an employment screening process to conclude an employee is unqualified solely because, despite an employee's reasonable efforts to do so, they have not yet completed that screening process.


(2) *Establishing time limit for employee response.* The contractor must state the time within which an employee must accept an employment offer. In no case may the period in which the employee has to accept the offer be less than 10 business days. The obligation to offer employment under this part will cease upon the employee's first refusal of a bona fide offer of employment on the contract.


(3) *Process.* The successor contractor must, in writing, offer employment to each employee. See also paragraph (f) of this section, Recordkeeping. Where written offers are not delivered in person, the offers should be sent by registered or certified mail to the employees' last known address or by any other means normally ensuring delivery. Examples of such other means include, but are not limited to, email to the last known email address, delivery to the last known address by commercial courier or express delivery services, or by personal service to the last known address.


(4) *Different job position.* As a general matter, an offer of employment on the successor's contract will be presumed to be a bona fide offer of employment, even if it is not for a position similar to the one the employee previously held, so long as it is one for which the employee is qualified. If a question arises concerning an employee's qualifications, that question must be decided based upon the employee's education and employment history, with particular emphasis on the employee's experience on the predecessor contract. A contractor must base its decision regarding an employee's qualifications on credible information provided by a knowledgeable source, such as the predecessor contractor, the local supervisor, the employee, or the contracting agency.


(5) *Different employment terms and conditions.* An offer of employment to a position on the contract under different employment terms and conditions than the employee held with the predecessor contractor is permitted provided that the offer is still bona fide, *i.e.,* the different employment terms and conditions are not offered to discourage the employee from accepting the offer. This would include offers with changes to pay, benefits, or terms and conditions such as the option of remote work, provided that these changes were not made to discourage acceptance of the offer. Where the successor contractor has or will have any employees in the same or similar occupational classifications during the course of the contract who work or will work entirely in a remote capacity, the successor contractor generally must offer employees of the predecessor contractor the option of remote work under reasonably similar terms and conditions.


(6) *Relocation costs.* If the successor contract will be performed in a new locality, nothing in this part requires or recommends that contractors or subcontractors pay the relocation costs of employees who exercise their right to work for the successor contractor or subcontractor under this part.


(7) *Termination after contract commencement.* Where an employee is terminated by the successor contractor under circumstances suggesting the offer of employment may not have been bona fide, the facts and circumstances of the offer and the termination will be closely examined during any compliance action to determine whether the offer was bona fide.


(8) *Post-award incorporation of omitted contract clause modifies contractor's obligations.* Pursuant to § 9.11(f), in a situation where the contracting agency retroactively incorporates the contract clause, if the successor contractor already hired employees to perform on the contract at the time the clause was retroactively incorporated, the successor contractor will be required to offer a right of first refusal of employment to the predecessor's employees in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 14055 and this part. Where, pursuant to § 9.11(f), the Administrator has required only prospective incorporation of the contract clause from the date of incorporation, the successor contractor must provide the employees on the predecessor contract a right of first refusal for any positions that remain open. In the event of an employment opening within 90 calendar days of the first date of contract performance, the successor contractor must provide the employees of the predecessor contractor the right of first refusal as well, regardless of whether incorporation of the contract clause is retroactive or prospective.


(c) *Exceptions.* The successor contractor is responsible for demonstrating the applicability of the following exceptions to the nondisplacement provisions in this part.


(1) *Nondisplaced employees.* (i) A successor contractor or subcontractor is not required to offer employment to any employee of the predecessor contractor who will be retained by the predecessor contractor.


(ii) The successor contractor must presume that all employees working under a predecessor's Federal service contract will be terminated as a result of the award of the successor contract, unless it can demonstrate a reasonable belief to the contrary based upon reliable information provided by a knowledgeable source, such as the predecessor contractor, the employee, or the contracting agency.


(2) *Predecessor contract's non-service workers.* (i) A successor contractor or subcontractor is not required to offer employment to any person working on the predecessor contract who is not a service employee as defined in § 9.2 of this part.


(ii) The successor contractor must presume that all employees working under a predecessor's Federal service contract are service employees, unless it can demonstrate a reasonable belief to the contrary based upon reliable information provided by a knowledgeable source, such as the predecessor contractor, the employee, or the contracting agency. Information regarding the general business practices of the predecessor contractor or the industry is not sufficient to claim this exception.


(3) *Employee's past performance.* (i) A successor contractor or subcontractor is not required to offer employment to an employee of the predecessor contractor if the successor contractor or any of its subcontractors reasonably believes, based on reliable evidence of the particular employee's past performance, that there would be just cause to discharge the employee if employed by the successor contractor or any subcontractor.


(ii) A successor contractor must presume that there would be no just cause to discharge any employees working under the predecessor contract in the last month of performance, unless it can demonstrate a reasonable belief to the contrary that is based upon reliable evidence provided by a knowledgeable source, such as the predecessor contractor and its subcontractors, the local supervisor, the employee, or the contracting agency. This determination must be made on an individual basis for each employee. Information regarding the general performance of the predecessor contractor is not sufficient to claim this exception.


(A) For example, a successor contractor may demonstrate its reasonable belief that there would be just cause to discharge an employee through reliable written evidence that the predecessor contractor initiated a process to terminate the employee for conduct clearly warranting termination prior to the expiration of the contract, but the termination process was not completed before the contract expired. Written evidence related to disciplinary action taken without a recommendation of termination may constitute reliable evidence of just cause to discharge the employee, depending on the specific facts and circumstances.


(B) [Reserved]


(4) *Nonfederal work.* (i) A successor contractor or subcontractor is not required to offer employment to any employee hired to work under a predecessor's Federal service contract and one or more nonfederal service contracts as part of a single job, provided that the employee was not deployed in a manner that was designed to avoid the purposes of this part.


(ii) The successor contractor must presume that no employees who worked under a predecessor's Federal service contract also worked on one or more nonfederal service contracts as part of a single job, unless the successor can demonstrate a reasonable belief based on reliable evidence to the contrary. The successor contractor must demonstrate that its belief is reasonable and is based upon reliable evidence provided by a knowledgeable source, such as the predecessor contractor, the local supervisor, the employee, or the contracting agency. Information regarding the general business practices of the predecessor contractor or the industry is not sufficient.


(iii) A successor contractor that makes a reasonable determination that a predecessor contractor's employee also performed work on one or more nonfederal service contracts as part of a single job must also make a reasonable determination that the employee was not deployed in a manner that was designed to avoid the purposes of this part. The successor contractor must demonstrate that its belief is reasonable and is based upon reliable evidence that has been provided by a knowledgeable source, such as the employee or the contracting agency.


(d) *Reduced staffing*—(1) *Contractor determines how many employees.* (i) A successor contractor or subcontractor will determine the number of employees necessary for efficient performance of the contract or subcontract and, for bona fide staffing or work assignment reasons, may elect to employ fewer employees than the predecessor contractor employed in connection with performance of the work. Thus, the successor contractor need not offer employment on the contract to all employees on the predecessor contract, but must offer employment only to the number of eligible employees the successor contractor believes necessary to meet its anticipated staffing pattern, except that:


(ii) Where, in accordance with this authority to employ fewer employees, a successor contractor does not offer employment to all the predecessor contract employees, the obligation to offer employment will continue for 90 calendar days after the successor contractor's first date of performance on the contract. The contractor's obligation under this part will end when all of the predecessor contract employees have received a bona fide job offer, as described in § 9.12(b), or when the 90-day window of obligation has expired. The following three examples demonstrate the principle.


(A) A contractor with 18 employment openings and a list of 20 employees from the predecessor contract must continue to offer employment to individuals on the list until 18 of the employees accept the contractor's employment offer or until the remaining employees have rejected the offer. If an employee quits or is terminated from the successor contract within 90 calendar days of the first date of contract performance, the contractor must first offer that employment opening to any remaining eligible employees of the predecessor contract.


(B) A successor contractor originally offers 20 jobs to predecessor contract employees on a contract that had 30 positions under the predecessor contractor. The first 20 predecessor contract employees the successor contractor approaches accept the employment offer. Within a month of commencing work on the contract, the successor determines that it must hire seven additional employees to perform the contract requirements. The first three predecessor contract employees to whom the successor offers employment decline the offer; however, the next four predecessor contract employees accept the offers. In accordance with the provisions of this section, the successor contractor offers employment on the contract to the three remaining predecessor contract employees who all accept; however, two employees on the contract quit 5 weeks later. The successor contractor has no further obligation under this part to make a second employment offer to the persons who previously declined an offer of employment on the contract.


(C) A successor contractor reduces staff on a successor contract by two positions from the predecessor contract's staffing pattern. Each predecessor contract employee the successor approaches accepts the employment offer; therefore, employment offers are not made to two predecessor contract employees. The successor contractor terminates an employee five months later. The successor contractor has no obligation to offer employment to the two remaining employees from the predecessor contract because more than 90 calendar days have passed since the successor contractor's first date of performance on the contract.


(2) *Changes to staffing pattern.* Where a contractor reduces the number of employees in any occupation on a contract with multiple occupations, resulting in some displacement, the contractor must scrutinize each employee's qualifications in order to offer the greatest possible number of predecessor contract employees positions equivalent to those they held under the predecessor contract. Example: A successor contract is awarded for a food preparation and services contract with Cook II, Cook I, and dishwasher positions. The Cook II position requires a higher level of skill than the Cook I position. The successor contractor reconfigures the staffing pattern on the contract by increasing the number of persons employed as Cook IIs and Dishwashers and reducing the number of Cook I employees. The successor contractor must examine the qualifications of each Cook I to determine whether they are qualified for either a Cook II or Dishwasher position. Conversely, were the contractor to increase the number of Cook I employees, decrease the number of Cook II employees, and keep the same number of Dishwashers, the contractor would generally be able to offer Cook I positions to some Cook II employees, because the Cook II performs a higher-level occupation.


(3) *Contractor determines which employees.* The contractor, subject to provisions of this part and other applicable restrictions (including non-discrimination laws and regulations), will determine to which employees it will offer employment. See § 9.1(b) regarding compliance with requirements of other Executive orders, regulations, or Federal, state, or local laws.


(e) *Contractor obligations near end of contract performance*—(1) *Certified list of employees provided 30 calendar days before contract completion.* The contractor will, not less than 30 calendar days before completion of the contractor's performance of services on a contract, furnish the contracting officer with a list of the names, mailing addresses, and if known, phone numbers and email addresses of all service employees working under the contract and its subcontracts at the time the list is submitted. The list must also contain anniversary dates of employment of each service employee on the contract and its predecessor contracts with either the current or predecessor contractors or their subcontractors. Assuming there are no changes to the workforce before the contract is completed, the contractor may use the list submitted, or to be submitted, to satisfy the requirements of the contract clause specified at 29 CFR 4.6(l)(2) to meet this provision but must also include the mailing address, and if known, phone numbers and email addresses of the workers.


(2) *Certified list of employees provided 10 business days before contract completion.* Where changes to the workforce are made after the submission of the certified list described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the contractor will, not less than 10 business days before completion of the contractor's performance of services on a contract, furnish the contracting officer with a certified list of the names, mailing addresses, and if known, phone numbers and email addresses of all service employees employed within the last month of contract performance. The list must also contain anniversary dates of employment of each service employee on the contract and its predecessor contracts with either the current or predecessor contractors or their subcontractors. The contractor may use the list submitted to satisfy the requirements of the contract clause specified at 29 CFR 4.6(l)(2) to meet this provision but must also include the mailing addresses, and if known, phone numbers and email addresses of the workers.


(3) *Notices to employees of possible right to offers of employment on successor contract.* Before contract completion, the contractor must provide written notice to service employees employed under the contract of their possible right to an offer of employment on the successor contract. Such notice will be either posted in a conspicuous place at the worksite or delivered to the employees individually. Where the workforce on the predecessor contract is comprised of a significant portion of workers who are not fluent in English, the notice will be provided in both English and a language in which the employees are fluent. Multiple language notices are required where significant portions of the workforce speak different languages and there is no common language. Contractors may provide the notice set forth in Appendix B to this part in either a physical posting at the job site, or in another manner that effectively provides individual notice such as individual paper notices or effective email notification to the affected employees. Another form with the same information can be used. To be effective, email notification must result in an electronic delivery receipt or some other reliable confirmation that the intended recipient received the notice. Any particular determination of the adequacy of a notification, regardless of the method used, will be fact-dependent and made on a case-by-case basis. These notice requirements are in addition to the notice provisions listed at § 9.5(f) (relating to agency exceptions) and § 9.11(c) (relating to location continuity).


(f) *Recordkeeping*—(1) *Form of records.* This part prescribes no particular order or form of records for contractors. A contractor may use records developed for any purpose to satisfy the requirements of this part, provided the records otherwise meet the requirements and purposes of this part and are fully accessible. The requirements of this part will apply to all records regardless of their format (e.g., paper or electronic).


(2) *Records to be retained.* (i) The contractor must maintain copies of any written offers of employment, including the date of the offer.


(ii) The contractor must maintain a copy of any record that forms the basis for any exclusion or exception claimed under this part.


(iii) The contractor must maintain a copy of any employee list received from the contracting agency and any employee list provided to the contracting agency. See paragraph (e) of this section, contractor obligations near end of contract performance.


(iv) Every contractor that makes retroactive payment of wages or compensation under the supervision of the Administrator pursuant to § 9.23(b), must:


(A) Record and preserve, as an entry on the pay records, the amount of such payment to each employee, the period covered by such payment, and the date of payment.


(B) Prepare a report of each such payment on a receipt form provided by or authorized by the Wage and Hour Division, and


*(1)* Preserve a copy as part of the records,


*(2)* Deliver a copy to the employee, and


*(3)* File the original, as evidence of payment by the contractor and receipt by the employee, with the Administrator within 10 business days after payment is made.


(v) The contractor must maintain evidence of any notices that they have provided to workers, or workers' collective bargaining representatives, to satisfy the requirements of the order or these regulations, including notices of the possibility of employment on the successor contract as required under § 9.12(e)(3); notices of agency exceptions that a contracting agency requires a contractor to provide under § 9.5(f) and section 6(b) of the order; and notices to workers and their representatives of the opportunity to provide information relevant to the contracting agency's location-continuity determination in the solicitation for a successor contract pursuant to § 9.11(c)(4).


(3) *Records retention period.* The contractor must retain records prescribed by § 9.12(f)(2) of this part for not less than a period of 3 years from the date the records were created.


(4) *Disclosure.* The contractor must provide copies of such documentation upon request of any authorized representative of the contracting agency or Department of Labor.


(g) *Investigations.* The contractor must cooperate in any review or investigation conducted pursuant to this part and must not interfere with the investigation or intimidate, blacklist, discharge, or in any other manner discriminate against any person because such person has cooperated in an investigation or proceeding under this part or has attempted to exercise any rights afforded under this part. This obligation to cooperate with investigations is not limited to investigations of the contractor's own actions, and also includes investigations related to other contractors (e.g., predecessor and successor contractors) and subcontractors.






