# § 375.206   Procedures to close meetings.

(a) *General rule.* A meeting or a portion of a meeting may be closed only when the Commission votes by a majority of the membership to close the meeting. A separate vote shall be taken with respect to each Commission meeting or portion of a meeting which is proposed to be closed to the public or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Commission member participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed. 


(b) *Request for closed meeting.* Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a meeting or a portion of a meeting requests that the Commission close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in paragraph (a) (5), (6), or (7) of § 375.205, the Commission, upon request of any one of its members, shall vote by recorded vote whether to close such meeting. 


(c) *Release of vote.* Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Commission shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member. If a portion of a meeting is to be closed to the public, the Secretary shall, within one day of the vote taken pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, make publicly available a full written explanation of the Commission's action closing the portion together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation. The information required by this paragraph shall be disclosed except to the extent that it is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 375.205(a). 


(d) *Certification.* Prior to a determination that a meeting should be closed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the General Counsel of the Commission shall publicly certify that, in his opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Secretary of the Commission as part of the transcript, recording, or minutes required by paragraph (e) of this section. 


(e) *Transcripts, recordings, minutes.* (1) The Secretary shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public pursuant to § 375.205(a)(8), (9)(i), or (10), the Secretary shall maintain either a transcript or recording, or a set of minutes. Any such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question). All agenda documents considered in connection with any Commission action shall be identified in such minutes. 


(2) The Secretary shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later. 


(f) *Public availability of transcripts, records, minutes.* (1) Within a reasonable time after the adjournment of a meeting closed to the public, the Commission shall make available to the public, in the Division of Public Information of the Commission, Washington, DC, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at the meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the Director of Public Information determines may be withheld under § 375.204. Copies of such transcript, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription. 


(2) The determination of the Director of the Division of Public Information to withhold information pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section may be appealed to the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, in accordance with § 388.107 of this chapter.



---

[N] [45 FR 21217, Apr. 1, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 7825, Mar. 13, 1987] 




