# § 1493.510   Payment for loss.

(a) *Determination of CCC's liability.* Upon receipt in good order of the information and documents required under § 1493.500, CCC will determine whether or not a loss has occurred for which CCC is liable under the applicable payment guarantee, this subpart and any applicable supplemental Program Announcements and Notices to Participants. If CCC determines that it is liable to the exporter and/or the exporter's assignee, CCC will pay the exporter or the exporter's assignee in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(b) *Amount of CCC's liability.* Subject to a determination by CCC with respect to prevailing U.S. market value pursuant to § 1493.450(a) of this part, CCC's maximum liability for any claims for loss submitted with respect to any payment guarantee, not including any late interest payments due in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, will be limited to the lesser of: 


(1) The guaranteed value as stated in the payment guarantee, plus eligible interest; or 


(2) The guaranteed percentage (as indicated in the payment guarantee) of the exported value indicated in the evidence of export, plus eligible interest. 


(c) *Late interest payment.* If a claim is not paid within one day of receipt of a claim which CCC has determined to be in good order, late interest will accrue in favor of the exporter or the exporter's assignee beginning with the first day after the day of receipt of a claim found by CCC to be in good order and continuing until and including the date that payment is made by CCC. Late interest will be paid on the guaranteed amount, as determined by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, and will be calculated based on the average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction as announced by the Department of Treasury as of the due date. 


(d) *Accelerated payments.* CCC will pay claims only for losses on amounts not paid as scheduled. CCC will not pay claims for amounts due under an accelerated payment clause in the export sales contract or the importer obligation unless it is determined to be in the best interests of CCC by the Controller, CCC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CCC at its option may declare the entire amount of the unpaid balance, plus accrued interest, in default and make payment to the exporter or the exporter's assignee in addition to such other claimed amount as may be due from CCC. 


(e) *Action against the assignee.* Notwithstanding any other provision in this subpart to the contrary, with regard to commodities covered by a payment guarantee, CCC will not, except pursuant to a determination under § 1493.450(a) of this part, hold the assignee responsible or take any action or raise any defense against the assignee for any action, omission, or statement by the exporter of which the assignee has no knowledge, provided that: 


(1) The exporter complies with the reporting requirements under §§ 1493.470 and 1493.480, excluding post-export adjustments (*i.e.*, corrections to evidence of export reports); and 


(2) The exporter or the exporter's assignee furnishes the statements and documents specified in § 1493.500.




