# § 1.50B-4   Partnerships.

(a) *General rule*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a partnership, each partner shall take into account separately, for his taxable year with or within which the partnership taxable year ends, his share (as determined under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) of the WIN expenses (as defined in paragraph (a) of § 1.50B-1) of employees employed by the partnership during such partnership's taxable year. The WIN expenses for each employee shall be allocated separately. 


(2) *Partner as taxpayer.* Each partner shall be treated as the taxpayer who paid or incurred the share of the WIN expenses allocated to him. If a partner takes into account in determining his WIN expenses the WIN expenses of an employee of a partnership, and if the employment of such employee is terminated in a termination subject to the rules contained in paragraph (a) of § 1.50A-3, or if the partnership fails to pay comparable wages and such failure is subject to the rules contained in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of § 1.50A-3, then such partner shall make a recapture determination under the provisions of section 50A (c) and (d) of the Code and § 1.50A-3. See § 1.50A-7. 


(3) *Determination of partner's share.* (i) Each partner's share of the WIN expenses shall be determined in accordance with the ratio in which the partners divide the general profits of the partnership (that is, the taxable income of the partnership as described in section 702 (a)(9)) regardless of whether the partnership has a profit or a loss for the taxable year during which the WIN expenses are paid or incurred. However, if the ratio in which the partners divide the general profits of the partnership changes during the taxable year of the partnership, the ratio effective for the date on which the WIN expenses are paid or incurred shall apply. 


(ii) Notwithstanding subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, if the deduction with respect to any WIN expenses is specially allocated and if such special allocation is recognized under section 704 (a) and (b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.704-1, then each partner's share of the WIN expenses shall be determined by reference to such special allocation effective for the date on which the WIN expenses are paid or incurred. 


(4) *Computation of the first 12 months of employment.* The first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive) and the period described in section 50B(c)(4) with respect to any WIN employee for purposes of determining the amount of WIN expenses (as defined in paragraph (a) of § 1.50B-1) shall not be affected by a change in the partners of such partnership and shall not be affected by a change in the ratio in which the partners divide the general profits of the partnership. Thus, the first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive) and the 24-month period described in section 50B(c)(4) of any WIN employee shall be the same with respect to any partner claiming a credit under section 40 for salaries and wages paid or incurred for services rendered by such employee. 


(b) *Summary statement.* A partnership shall attach to its return a statement showing the allocation to each partner of its WIN expenses with respect to each WIN employee. 


(c) *Examples.* Paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples: 



---

[N] [38 FR 6164, Mar. 7, 1973] 




