# ยง 120.119   Annual reports.

(a) Annual reports of testing results must be submitted to the FAA by March 15 of the succeeding calendar year for the prior calendar year (January 1 through December 31) in accordance with the following provisions:


(1) Each part 121 certificate holder shall submit an annual report each year.


(2) Each entity conducting a drug testing program under this part, other than a part 121 certificate holder, that has 50 or more employees performing a safety-sensitive function on January 1 of any calendar year shall submit an annual report to the FAA for that calendar year.


(3) The Administrator reserves the right to require that aviation employers not otherwise required to submit annual reports prepare and submit such reports to the FAA. Employers that will be required to submit annual reports under this provision will be notified in writing by the FAA.


(b) As an employer, you must use the Management Information System (MIS) form and instructions as required by 49 CFR part 40 (at 49 CFR 40.26 and appendix J to 49 CFR part 40). You may also use the electronic version of the MIS form provided by DOT. The Administrator may designate means (e.g., electronic program transmitted via the Internet) other than hard-copy, for MIS form submission. For information on where to submit MIS forms and for the electronic version of the form, *see:**http://www.faa.gov/about/office_org/headquarters_offices/avs/offices/aam/drug_alcohol.*

(c) A service agent may prepare the MIS report on behalf of an employer. However, a company official (e.g., Designated Employer Representative as defined in 49 CFR part 40) must certify the accuracy and completeness of the MIS report, no matter who prepares it.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2008-0937, 74 FR 22653, May 14, 2009; Amdt. 120-0A, 75 FR 3154, Jan. 20, 2010, as amended by Docket DOT-OST-2021-0093, 88 FR 27636, May 2, 2023]




