# § 416.1149   What is a temporary absence from your living arrangement.

(a) *General.* A temporary absence may be due to employment, hospitalization, vacations, or visits. The length of time an absence can be temporary varies depending on the reason for your absence. For purposes of valuing in-kind support and maintenance under §§ 416.1130 through 416.1148, we apply the rules in this section. In general, we will find a temporary absence from your permanent living arrangement if you (or you and your eligible spouse)—


(1) Become a resident of a public institution, or a public or private medical treatment facility where you otherwise would be subject to the reduced benefit rate described in § 416.414, and you are eligible for the benefits payable under § 416.212; or


(2) Were in your permanent living arrangement for at least 1 full calendar month prior to the absence and intend to, and do, return to your permanent living arrangement in the same calendar month in which you (or you and your spouse) leave, or in the next month.


(b) *Rules we apply during a temporary absence.* During a temporary absence, we continue to value your support and maintenance the same way that we did in your permanent living arrangement. For example, if the one-third reduction applies in your permanent living arrangement, we continue to apply the same rule during a temporary absence. However, if you receive in-kind support and maintenance only during a temporary absence we do not count it since you are still responsible for maintaining your permanent quarters during the absence.


(c) *Rules for temporary absence in certain circumstances.* (1)(i) If you enter a medical treatment facility where you are eligible for the reduced benefits payable under § 416.414 for full months in the facility, and you are not eligible for either benefit payable under § 416.212 (and you have not received such benefits during your current period of confinement) and you intend to return to your prior living arrangement, we consider this a temporary absence regardless of the length of your stay in the facility. We use the rules that apply to your permanent living arrangement to value any shelter you receive during the month (for which reduced benefits under § 416.414 are not payable) you enter or leave the facility. During any full calendar month you are in the medical treatment facility, you cannot receive more than the Federal benefit rate described in § 416.414(b)(1). We do not consider shelter provided during a medical confinement to be income.


(ii) If you enter a medical treatment facility and you are eligible for either benefit payable under § 416.212, we also consider this a temporary absence from your permanent living arrangement. We use the rules that apply to your permanent living arrangement to value any shelter you receive during the month you enter the facility and throughout the period you are eligible for these benefits. We consider your absence to be temporary through the last month benefits under § 416.212 are paid unless you are discharged from the facility in the following month. In that case, we consider your absence to be temporary through the date of discharge.




(2)(i) Generally, if you are a child under age 22, you are temporarily absent while you are away at school, regardless of how long you are away, if you come home on some weekends, lengthy holidays, and vacations (or for extended visits as provided in school regulations).


(ii) However, if you are a child under age 18, and your permanent living arrangement is with an ineligible parent or essential person (§ 416.222), we follow the rules in § 416.1148(b)(2). When you reach age 18, or if you are under age 18 and deeming does not apply, we consider the circumstances of your permanent living arrangement to value any in-kind support and maintenance you receive.



---

[N] [45 FR 65547, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 48575, Nov. 26, 1985; 52 FR 8882, Mar. 20, 1987; 61 FR 10279, Mar. 13, 1996; 62 FR 1056, Jan. 8, 1997; 70 FR 6345, Feb. 7, 2005; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007; 89 FR 21211, Mar. 27, 2024]




