# § 13.209   Answer.

(a) *Writing required.* A respondent must file in the FAA Hearing Docket a written answer to the complaint, or may file a written motion pursuant to § 13.208 or § 13.218 instead of filing an answer, not later than 30 days after service of the complaint. The answer must be dated and signed by the person responding to the complaint. An answer must be typewritten or legibly handwritten.


(b) *Filing.* A person filing an answer or motion under paragraph (a) of this section must follow the filing instructions in § 13.210.


(c) *Service.* A person filing an answer or a motion under paragraph (a) of this section must serve a copy of the answer or motion in accordance with the service instructions in § 13.211.


(d) *Contents.* An answer must specifically state any affirmative defense that the respondent intends to assert at the hearing. A person filing an answer may include a brief statement of any relief requested in the answer. The person filing an answer may recommend a location for the hearing when filing the answer.


(e) *Specific denial of allegations required.* A person filing an answer must admit, deny, or state that the person is without sufficient knowledge or information to admit or deny, each allegation in the complaint. All allegations in the complaint not specifically denied in the answer are deemed admitted. A general denial of the complaint is deemed a failure to file an answer.


(f) *Failure to file answer.* A person's failure to file an answer without good cause will be deemed an admission of the truth of each allegation contained in the complaint.




