# § 581.3   Definitions.

When used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meaning:


*Act* means the OCS Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331 *et seq.*).


*Adjacent State* means with respect to any activity proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State—


(1) That is, or is proposed to be, receiving for processing, refining, or transshipping OCS mineral resources commercially recovered from the seabed;


(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for prospecting, exploration, testing, and mining activities; or


(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from such activity.


*Director* means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) of the U.S. Department of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.


*Governor* means the Governor of a State or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State law to exercise the powers granted to such Governor pursuant to the Act.


*Lease* means any form of authorization which is issued under section 8 of the Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals, or the area covered by that authorization, whichever is required by the context.


*Lessee* means the person authorized by a lease, or an approved assignment thereof, to explore for and develop and produce the leased deposits in accordance with the regulations in this chapter. The term includes all persons holding that authority by or through the lessee.


*OCS mineral* means a mineral deposit or accretion found on or below the surface of the seabed but does not include oil, gas, sulphur; salt or sand and gravel intended for use in association with the development of oil, gas, or sulphur; or source materials essential to production of fissionable materials which are reserved to the United States pursuant to section 12(e) of the Act.


*Outer Continental Shelf* means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.


*Overriding royalty* means a royalty created out of the lessee's interest which is over and above the royalty reserved to the lessor in the original lease.


*Person* means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; an association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States; or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal Agencies.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.




