# ยง 1309.32   Application forms; contents; signature.

(a) Any person who is required to be registered pursuant to ยง 1309.21 and is not so registered, shall apply on DEA Form 510 using the secure application portal at *www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov.*

(b) Any person who is registered pursuant to ยง 1309.21, shall apply for reregistration on DEA Form 510a using the secure application portal at *www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov.*

(c) DEA Forms 510 and 510a may be obtained online at *www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov.* DEA will send renewal notifications via email to registrants approximately calendar 60 days prior to their registration expiration date. Registrants are responsible for keeping their email address current in the secure application portal on DEA's website throughout the duration of their registration. Only applications submitted online through the secure application portal on DEA's website will be accepted for processing.


(d) Each application for registration must include the Administration Chemical Code Number, as set forth in ยง 1310.02 of this chapter, for each List I chemical to be manufactured, distributed, imported, or exported.


(e) Registration shall not entitle a person to engage in any activity with any List I chemical not specified in his or her application.


(f) Each application shall include all information called for in the form, unless the item is not applicable, in which case this fact shall be indicated.


(g) Each application, attachment, or other document filed as part of an application, shall be signed by the applicant, if an individual; by a partner of the applicant, if a partnership; or by an officer of the applicant, if a corporation, corporate division, association, trust or other entity. An applicant may authorize one or more individuals, who would not otherwise be authorized to do so, to sign applications for the applicant by filing with the application or other document a power of attorney for each such individual. The power of attorney shall be signed by a person who is authorized to sign applications under this paragraph and shall contain the signature of the individual being authorized to sign the application or other document. The power of attorney shall be valid until revoked by the applicant.



---

[N] [60 FR 32454, June 22, 1995, as amended at 75 FR 10680, Mar. 9, 2010; 81 FR 97021, Dec. 30, 2016; 87 FR 21023, Apr. 11, 2022]




