# § 31.3401(a)-2   Exclusions from wages.

(a) *In general.* (1) The term “wages” does not include any remuneration for services performed by an employee for his employer which is specifically excepted from wages under section 3401(a).


(2) The exception attaches to the remuneration for services performed by an employee and not to the employee as an individual; that is, the exception applies only to the remuneration in an excepted category.


(3) For provisions relating to the circumstances under which remuneration which is excepted is nevertheless deemed to be wages, and relating to the circumstances under which remuneration which is not excepted is nevertheless deemed not to be wages, see § 31.3402(e)-1.


(4) For provisions relating to payments with respect to which a voluntary withholding agreement is in effect, which are not defined as wages in section 3401(a) but which are nevertheless deemed to be wages, see §§ 31.3401(a)-3 and 31.3402(p)-1.


(b) *Fees paid a public official.* (1) Authorized fees paid to public officials such as notaries public, clerks of courts, sheriffs, etc., for services rendered in the performance of their official duties are excepted from wages and hence are not subject to withholding. However, salaries paid such officials by the Government, or by a Government agency or instrumentality, are subject to withholding.


(2) Amounts paid to precinct workers for services performed at election booths in State, county, and municipal elections and fees paid to jurors and witnesses are in the nature of fees paid to public officials and therefore are not subject to withholding.



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6654, 28 FR 5251, May 28, 1963; T.D. 7096, 36 FR 5216, Mar. 18, 1971]




