# § 1806.21   General.

(a) *Authority.* This subpart prescribes the policies and procedures to be followed in implementing the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as amended by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The provisions of these Acts are applicable to Rural Development and Farm Service Agency, herein referred to as the “Agency” authorities permitting financing of buildings of any type now located in or to be located in special flood or mudslide prone areas as designated by the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and any machinery, equipment, fixtures and furnishings contained or to be contained therein. This subpart does not apply to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs and to Rural Rental Housing, Rural Cooperative Housing, or Farm Labor Housing programs of the Rural Housing Service.


(b) *Background.* The Congress has found that annual losses throughout the nation caused by floods and mudslides are increasing at an alarming rate, largely as a result of the accelerated development and concentration of populations in areas subject to floods and mudslides. The availability of Federal funds in the form of loans, grants, guarantees, insurance and other forms of financial assistance are often determining factors in the utilization of land and the location and construction of industrial, commercial and residential facilities. 


(c) *Scope.* The National Flood Insurance Program (the program) was authorized and created because the private insurance industry has been unable to provide insurance coverage at reasonable prices for such natural disasters as floods and mudslides. Subsidized and affordable insurance has been made available under the Act through an agreement between the Federal Insurance Administration and the National Flood Insurers Association. 



---

[N] [39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 69 FR 69103, Nov. 26, 2004; 72 FR 64121, Nov. 15, 2007; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]




