# § 721.6920   Butyl acrylate, polymer with substituted methyl styrene, methyl methacrylate, and substituted silane.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as butyl acrylate, polymer with substituted methyl styrene, methyl methacrylate, and substituted silane (PMN P-91-272) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 per cent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p) (volume set at 90,000 kg), (volume set at 512,000 kg), (volume set at 1,235,000 kg).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44070, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




