# § 1546.409   Integrity of screener tests.

(a) *Cheating or other unauthorized conduct.* (1) Except as authorized by TSA, no person may—


(i) Copy or intentionally remove a test under this part;


(ii) Give to another or receive from another any part or copy of that test;


(iii) Give help on that test to or receive help on that test from any person during the period that the test is being given; or


(iv) Use any material or aid during the period that the test is being given.


(2) No person may take any part of that test on behalf of another person.


(3) No person may cause, assist, or participate intentionally in any act prohibited by this paragraph (a).


(b) *Administering and monitoring screener tests.* (1) Each foreign air carrier must notify TSA of the time and location at which it will administer each screener readiness test required under § 1544.405 (d).


(2) Either TSA or the foreign air carrier must administer and monitor the screener readiness test. Where more than one foreign air carrier or foreign air carrier uses a screening location, TSA may authorize an employee of one or more of the foreign air carriers or foreign air carriers to monitor the test for a trainee who will screen at that location.


(3) If TSA or a representative of TSA is not available to administer and monitor a screener readiness test, the foreign air carrier must provide a direct employee to administer and monitor the screener readiness test.


(4) An foreign air carrier employee who administers and monitors a screener readiness test must not be an instructor, screener, screener-in-charge, checkpoint security supervisor, or other screening supervisor. The employee must be familiar with the procedures for administering and monitoring the test and must be capable of observing whether the trainee or others are engaging in cheating or other unauthorized conduct.




