# § 1.444-2T   Tiered structure (temporary).

(a) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, no section 444 election shall be made or continued with respect to a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that is a member of a tiered structure on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For purposes of this section, the term “personal service corporation” means a personal service corporation as defined in § 1.441-3(c). 


(b) *Definition of a member of a tiered structure*—(1) *In general.* A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is considered a member of a tiered structure if— 


(i) The partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation directly owns any portion of a deferral entity, or 


(ii) A deferral entity directly owns any portion of the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation.


(2) *Deferral entity*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the term “deferral entity” means an entity that is a partnership, S corporation, personal service corporation, or trust. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated income tax return that is treated as a personal service corporation pursuant to § 1.441-4T (i), such affiliated group is considered to be a single deferral entity. 


(ii) *Grantor trusts.* The term “deferral entity” does not include a trust (or a portion of a trust) which is treated as owned by the grantor or beneficiary under Subpart E, part I, subchapter J, chapter 1, of the Code (relating to grantor trusts), including a trust that is treated as a grantor trust pursuant to section 1361(d)(1)(A) of the Code (relating to qualified subchapter S trusts). Thus, any taxpayer treated under subpart E as owning a portion of a trust shall be treated as owning the assets of the trust attributable to that ownership. The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii).


(3) *Anti-abuse rule.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is considered a member of a tiered structure if the partnership, S corporation, personal service corporation, or related taxpayers have organized or reorganized their ownership structure or operations for the principal purpose of obtaining a significant unintended tax benefit from making or continuing a section 444 election. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a significant unintended tax benefit results when a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation makes a section 444 election and, as a result, a taxpayer (not limited to the entity making the election) obtains a significant deferral of income substantially all of which is not eliminated by a required payment under section 7519. See examples (15) through (19) in paragraph (f) of this section. 


(c) *De minimis rules*—(1) *In general.* For rules relating to a de minimis exception to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (the “downstream de minimis rule”), see paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For rules relating to a de minimis exception to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (the “upstream de minimis rule”), see paragraph (c)(3) of this section. For rules relating to the interaction of the de minimis rules provided in this paragraph (c) and the “same taxable year exception” provided in paragraph (e) of this section, see paragraph (e)(5) of this section. 


(2) *Downstream de minimis rule*—(i) *General rule.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation directly owns any portion of one or more deferral entities as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if, in the aggregate, all such deferral entities accounted for—


(A) Not more than 5 percent of the partnership's, S corporation's, or personal service corporation's adjusted taxable income for the testing period (“5 percent adjusted taxable income test”), or 


(B) Not more than 2 percent of the partnership's, S corporation's, or personal service corporation's gross income for the testing period (“2 percent gross income test”). See section 702 (c) for rules relating to the determination of gross income of a partner in a partnership.


(ii) *Definition of testing period.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), the term “testing period” means the taxable year that ends immediately prior to the taxable year for which the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation desires to make or continue a section 444 election. However, see the special rules provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section for certain special cases (*e.g.,* the partnership, S corporation, personal service corporation or deferral entity was not in existence during the entire testing period). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii).


(iii) *Definition of adjusted taxable income*—(A) *Partnership.* In the case of a partnership, adjusted taxable income for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is an amount equal to the sum of the— 


(*1*) Aggregate amount of the partnership items described in section 702(a) (other than credits and tax-exempt income), 


(*2*) Applicable payments defined in section 7519(d)(3) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, and 


(*3*) Guaranteed payments defined in section 707(c) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section and are not otherwise included in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*2*) of this section. For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of partnership items under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, deductions and losses are treated as negative income. Thus, for example, if under section 702(a) a partnership has $1,000 of ordinary taxable income, $500 of specially allocated deductions, and $300 of capital loss, the partnership's aggregate amount of partnership items under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section is $200 ($1,000-$500-$300). 


(B) *S corporation.* In the case of an S corporation, adjusted taxable income for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is an amount equal to the sum of the— 


(*1*) Aggregate amount of the S corporation items described in section 1366(a) (other than credits and tax-exempt income), and 


(*2*) Applicable payments defined in section 7519(d)(3) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(C) *Personal service corporation.* In the case of a personal service corporation, adjusted taxable income for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is an amount equal to the sum of the— 


(*1*) Taxable income of the personal service corporation, and 


(*2*) Applicable amounts defined in section 280H(f)(1) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(C)(*1*) of this section. 


(iv) *Special rules*—(A) *Pro-forma rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(iv)(C)(*2*) of this section, if a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation directly owns any interest in a deferral entity as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section and such ownership interest is different in amount from the partnership's, S corporation's, or personal service corporation's interest on any day during the testing period, the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test must be applied on a pro-forma basis (*i.e.,* adjusted taxable income and gross income must be calculated for the testing period assuming that the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation owned the same interest in the deferral entity that it owned as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A).


(B) *Reasonable estimates allowed.* If the information necessary to complete the pro-forma calculation described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is not readily available, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation may make a reasonable estimate of such information.


(C) *Newly formed entities*—(*1*) *Newly formed deferral entities.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation owns any portion of a deferral entity on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section and such deferral entity was not in existence during the entire testing period (hereinafter referred to as a “newly formed deferral entity”), both the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test are modified as follows. First, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation shall calculate the percentage of its adjusted taxable income or gross income that is attributable to deferral entities, excluding newly formed deferral entities. Second, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation shall calculate (on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section) the percentage of the tax basis of its assets that are attributable to its tax basis with respect to its ownership interests in all newly formed deferral entities. If the sum of the two percentages is 5 percent or less, the deferral entities are considered de minimis and are disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. If the sum of the two percentages is greater than 5 percent, the deferral entities do not qualify for the de minimis rule provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and thus the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is considered to be a member of a tiered structure for purposes of this section.


(*2*) *Newly formed partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation desiring to make a section 444 election.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation desires to make a section 444 election for the first taxable year of its existence, the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test are replaced by a 5 percent of assets test. Thus, if on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, 5 percent or less of the assets (measured by reference to the tax basis of the assets) of the newly formed partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation are attributable to the tax basis with respect to its ownership interests in the deferral entities, the deferral entities will be considered de minimis and will be disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(*3*) *Upstream de minimis rule.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is directly owned by one or more deferral entities as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section if on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section the deferral entities directly own, in the aggregate, 5 percent or less of—


(*i*) An interest in the current profits of the partnership, or


(*ii*) The stock (measured by value) of the S corporation or personal service corporation.


(d) *Date for determining the existence of a tiered structure*—(1) *General rule.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation will be considered a member of a tiered structure for a particular taxable year if the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is a member of a tiered structure on the last day of the required taxable year (as defined in section 444 (e) of the Code) ending within such year. If a particular taxable year does not include the last day of the required taxable year for such year, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation will not be considered a member of a tiered structure for such year. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (d)(1).


(2) *Special rule for taxable years beginning in 1987.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation will not be considered a member of a tiered structure for a taxable year beginning in 1987 if the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is not a member of a tiered structure on the day the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation timely files its section 444 election for such year. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (d)(2).


(e) *Same taxable year exception*—(1) *In general.* Although a partnership or S corporation is a member of a tiered structure as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the partnership, S corporation may make or continue a section 444 election if the tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) consists entirely of partnerships or S corporations (or both), all of which have the same taxable year as determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. However, see paragraph (e)(5) of this section for the interaction of the de minimis rules provided in paragraph (c) of this section with the same taxable year exception. For purposes of this paragraph (e), two or more entities are considered to have the same taxable year if their taxable years end on the same day, even though they begin on different days. See examples (8) through (14) in paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) *Definition of tiered structure*—(i) *General rule.* For purposes of the same taxable year exception, the members of a tiered structure are defined to include the following entities—


(A) The partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception,


(B) A deferral entity (or entities) directly owned (in whole or in part) by the partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception,


(C) A deferral entity (or entities) directly owning any portion of the partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception, and


(D) A deferral entity (or entities) directly owned (in whole or in part) by a “downstream controlled partnership,” as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Special flow-through rule for downstream controlled partnerships.* If more than 50 percent of a partnership's profits and capital are owned by a partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception, such owned partnership is considered a downstream controlled partnership for purposes of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section. Furthermore, if more than 50 percent of a partnership's profits and capital are owned by a downstream controlled partnership, such owned partnership is considered a downstream controlled partnership for purposes of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Determining the taxable year of a partnership or S corporation.* The taxable year of a partnership or S corporation to be taken into account for purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section is the taxable year ending with or prior to the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Furthermore, the determination of such taxable year will take into consideration any section 444 elections made by the partnership or S corporation. See examples (10) and (11) in paragraph (f) of this section.


(4) *Special rule for 52-53-week taxable years.* For purposes of this paragraph (e), a 52-53-week taxable year with reference to the end of a particular month will be considered to be the same as a taxable year ending with reference to the last day of such month.


(5) *Interaction with de minimis rules*—(i) *Downstream de minimis rule*—(A) *In general.* If a partnership or S corporation that desires to make or continue a section 444 election is a member of a tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and directly owns any member (or members) of the tiered structure with a taxable year different from the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of the same taxable year exception of paragraph (e)(1) of this section provided that, in the aggregate, the de minimis rule of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is satisfied with respect to such owned member (or members). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A).


(B) *Special rule for members of a tiered structure directly owned by a downstream controlled partnership.* For purposes of paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this section, a partnership or S corporation desiring to make or continue a section 444 election is considered to directly own any member of the tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) directly owned by a downstream controlled partnership (as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section). The adjusted taxable income or gross income of the partnership or S corporation that is attributable to a member of a tiered structure directly owned by a downstream controlled partnership equals the adjusted taxable income or gross income of such member multiplied by the partnership's or S corporation's indirect ownership percentage of such member. The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B).


(ii) *Upstream de minimis rule.* If a partnership or S corporation that desires to make or continue a section 444 election is a member of a tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and is owned directly by a member (or members) of the tiered structure with taxable years different from the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of the same taxable year exception of paragraph (e)(1) of this section provided that, in the aggregate, the de minimis rule of paragraph (c)(3) of this section is satisfied with respect to such owning member (or members). See Example 12 of paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.


(g) *Effective date.* This section is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.



---

[N] [T.D. 8205, 53 FR 19698, May 27, 1988, as amended by T.D. 8996, 67 FR 35012, May 17, 2002]




