# ยง 270.16   Deposit of funds.

All funds collected or received by a Council under this section must be deposited in an appropriate account in the name of the Council specified in its charter. Funds eligible to be collected or received by a Council must be limited to those authorized under the Act.


(a) Pending disbursement, under an approved marketing plan and budget, funds collected through assessments authorized by the Act must be deposited in any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States Government.


(b) The Council may, however, pending disbursement of these funds, invest in risk-free, short-term, interest-bearing instruments.


(1) *Risk-free.* All investments must be insured or fully collateralized with Federal Government securities. In the absence of collateral, accounts established at financial institutions should, in aggregate, total less than $100,000 to assure both principal and interest are federally insured in full.


(2) *Short-term.* Generally, all investments should be for a relatively short time period (one year or less) to assure that the principal is maintained and readily convertible to cash.


(3) *Collateralization.* Investments exceeding the $100,000 insurance coverage level must be fully collateralized by the financial institution.


(i) Collateral must be pledged at face value and must be pledged prior to sending funds to the institution.


(ii) Government securities are acceptable collateral. Declining balance, mortgage backed securities such as Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) and Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) are not acceptable collateral.


(iii) If an account has been established, collateral may be held at the local Federal Reserve Bank. Otherwise, another depository must hold the collateral.




