# § 842.305   Deposits for civilian service.

(a) *Eligibility—current and former employees or Members.* An employee or Member subject to FERS and a former employee or Member who is entitled to an annuity may make a deposit for civilian service described under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of § 842.304 upon application to OPM in a form prescribed by OPM. A deposit for civilian service cannot be made later than 30 days after the first regular monthly payment as defined in § 842.602.


(b) *Eligibility—survivors.* If an employee or Member was, at the time of death, eligible to make a deposit, the employee's survivor may make the deposit for civilian service. A deposit under this paragraph cannot be made after adjudication of the survivor's application for benefits becomes final, which is 30 days after the date of OPM's notice to the survivor of the annuity rates with and without making the deposit. 


(c) *Distinct period of service.* A deposit is not considered to have been made for any distinct period of service unless the total amount due for the period is paid in full. A distinct period of civilian service for this purpose is a period of civilian service that is not interrupted by a break in service of more than 3 days. 


(d) *Amount of deposits.* The amount of a deposit for a period of service under § 842.304(a)(2) equals 1.3 percent of the basic pay for the service, plus interest. The amount of a deposit for a period of service under § 842.304(a)(3) equals the amount that would have been deducted from pay under 5 U.S.C. 8422(a) had the employee been subject to FERS during the service, plus interest. 


(e) *Interest.* (1) Interest is charged at the rate of 4 percent a year through December 31, 1947; 3 percent a year beginning January 1, 1948, through December 31, 1984; and thereafter at a rate as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury for each calendar year that equals the overall average yield to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (the Fund) during the preceding fiscal year from all obligations purchased by the Secretary during such fiscal year under 5 U.S.C. 8348 (c), (d), and (e).


(2) The computation of interest is on the basis of 30 days to the month. Interest is computed for the actual calendar time involved in each case; but, whenever applicable, the rule of average applies.


(3) Interest is computed from the midpoint of each service period included in the computation. The interest accrues annually on the outstanding portion, and is compounded annually, until the portion is deposited. Interest is not charged after the commencing date of annuity or for a period of separation from the service that began before October 1, 1956.


(f) *Forms of deposit.* Deposits may be made in a single lump sum or in installments not smaller than $50 each.


(g) *Cadet Nurse Corps.* (1) Upon receiving an application for service credit with the Cadet Nurse Corps, OPM will determine whether all the conditions for creditability (§ 842.304(b)) have been met; compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the employing agency and the employee of the total amount of the deposit due. The rate of basic pay for this purpose is deemed to be $15 per month for the first 9 months of study; $20 per month for the 10th through the 21st months of study; and $30 per month for any month in excess of 21 months. Interest is computed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) The employing agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due and a payment schedule (unless deposit is made in one lump sum) to record the date and amount of each payment.


(3) If the individual cannot make payment in one lump sum, the employing agency must accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). The employing agency, however, is not required to accept individual checks in amounts less than $50.


(4) Payments received by the employing agency must be remitted to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.


(5) Once the employee's deposit has been paid in full or closed out, the employing agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM. 


(h) *Processing applications for pre-1969 National Guard technician service credit for employees subject to FERS retirement deductions after November 5, 1990*—(1) *OPM determines creditable service.* OPM will determine whether all conditions for crediting the additional service have been met, compute the deposit, and notify the employee of the amount of and the procedures for submitting the deposit payments to OPM to obtain credit for the service. 


(2) *Computing the deposit.* (i) For individuals who will not have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed based on—


(A) One and three tenths percent of basic pay at the time the service was performed; and 


(B) Interest at the rate of 3 percent per year computed as specified by section 8334(e)(2) of title 5, United States Code, until the date the deposit is paid. 


(ii) For individuals who will have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed as specified in 5 CFR 831.306(c). 


(i) *Processing applications for pre-1969 National Guard technician service credit for annuitants (and survivors) and for former employees who separated after December 31, 1968, and before November 6, 1990*—(1) *OPM determines creditable service.* OPM will determine whether all conditions for crediting the additional service have been met, compute the amount of the deposit, and notify the individual. 


(2) *Computing the deposit for annuitants and survivors.* (i) For individuals who do not have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed based on—


(A) One and three tenths percent of basic pay at the time the service was performed; and 


(B) Interest at the rate of 3 percent per year as specified by section 8334(e)(2) of title 5, United States Code, to the midpoint of the 24-month installment period, or if paid in a lump sum, the date the deposit is paid. 


(ii) For individuals who will have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed as specified in 5 CFR 831.306(e)(2)(i) and (ii)(A). 


(iii)(A) OPM will notify annuitants and survivors of the amount of the deposit and give them a proposed installment schedule for paying the deposit from monthly annuity payments. The proposed installment payments will consist of equal monthly payments that will not exceed a period 24 months from the date a complete written application is received by OPM. 


(B) The annuitant or survivor may allow the deposit installments to be deducted from his or her annuity as proposed or make payment in a lump sum within 30 days from the date of the notice. 


(C) Increased annuity payments will begin to accrue the first day of the month after OPM receives the complete written application. 


(iv) If an annuitant dies before completing the deposit installment payments, the remaining installments will be deducted as established for the annuitant from benefits payable to the survivor annuitant (but not if the only survivor benefit is payable to a child or children of the deceased), if any. If no survivor annuity is payable, OPM may collect the balance of the deposit from any lump sum benefits payable or from the decedent's estate, if any. 


(3) *Computing the deposit for former Federal employees separated after December 31, 1968 but before November 6, 1990.* For former employees with title to a deferred annuity that commences after November 6, 1990, the deposit will be computed as provided in paragraph (i)(2) above, except that interest will be computed through the commencing date of annuity or the date the deposit is paid, whichever comes first.


(j) *Certain Government service performed abroad after December 31, 1988, and before May 24, 1998*—(1) *Eligibility-current and former employees, and retirees.* A current or former employee, or a retiree who performed certain Government service abroad described in § 842.304(e) may make a deposit for such service, in a form prescribed by OPM.


(2) *Eligibility-survivors.* A survivor of a current employee, former employee, or a retiree eligible to make a deposit under paragraph (j)(1) of this section may make a deposit under this section if the current or former employee, or retiree is deceased and the survivor is eligible or would be eligible for a survivor annuity under FERS based on the service of the current or former employee, or retiree.


(3) *Filing of deposit application.* An individual eligible to make a deposit under paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section for service described in § 842.304(e) must submit a written application to make a deposit for such service with the appropriate office in the department or agency where such service was performed. If the department or agency where the service was performed no longer exists, the individual must submit the written application to the appropriate office in the Department of State.


(4) *Time limit for filing application.* An application to make a deposit under this section must be submitted on or before August 29, 2008.


(5) *Amount of deposit.* (i) A deposit under this section must be computed using distinct periods of service. For the purpose of this section, a distinct period of service means a period of service not interrupted by a break in service of more than 3 days. A deposit may be made for any or all distinct periods of service.


(ii) The amount of deposit under this section equals the amount of deductions from basic pay that would have been required under section 8422 of title 5, United States Code, if at the time the service was performed the service had been subject to FERS deductions under that section, plus interest.


(6) *Forms of deposit.* A deposit under this section must be made as a single lump sum within 180 days of being notified of the deposit amount.


(7) *Processing deposit applications and payments.* (i) The department or agency where the service described in § 842.304(e) was performed must process the deposit applications and payments under this section. If the department or agency where the service was performed no longer exists, the Department of State must process the deposit applications and payments under this section.


(ii) Whenever requested, the Department of State must assist the department or agency responsible for processing deposit applications under this section determine whether the application meets the requirements of § 842.304(e).


(iii) Upon receiving a deposit application under this section, the department or agency must determine whether the application meets the requirements of § 842.304(e); compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the applicant of the total amount of deposit due.


(iv) The department or agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due.


(v) When it receives an individual's payment for the service, the department or agency must remit the payment to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.


(vi) Once a deposit has been paid in full or otherwise closed out, the department or agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.


(8) *Government contributions.* (i) The department or agency where service described in § 842.304(e) was performed must pay Government contributions for each period of service covered by a deposit under this section.


(ii) The amount of contributions under this section equals the amount of Government contributions which would have been required for the service under section 8423 of title 5, United States Code, if the service had been covered under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, plus interest.


(iii) The department or agency must remit the amount of Government contributions under this section to OPM at the same time it remits the employee deposit for this service to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.


(9) *Interest.* Interest must be computed as described under paragraphs (2) and (3) of 5 U.S.C. 8334(e). Interest must be computed for each distinct period of service from the midpoint of each distinct period of service. The interest accrues annually on the outstanding deposit and is compounded annually, until the deposit is paid.


(10) *Effect of deposit.* An individual completing a deposit under this section will receive retirement credit for the service covered by the deposit when OPM receives certification that the deposit has been paid in full, and the deposit payment and agency contributions are remitted to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.


(11) *Appeal rights.* When the department or agency processing an application for deposit under this section determines that the individual is not eligible to make a deposit for a period of service, it must provide the individual with a written decision explaining the reason for the decision and explaining the individual's right to appeal the decision to the Merit Systems Protection Board.




(k) *Administrative error.* If OPM determines that additional interest was assessed on a deposit for full-time volunteer service as a volunteer or a volunteer leader with the Peace Corps or Volunteers in Serviced to America (VISTA) due to its own administrative error, OPM may pay, on behalf of the employee, Member, or annuitant, any additional interest assessed due to the administrative error.



---

[N] [52 FR 18193, May 14, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 55597, Oct. 29, 1991; 56 FR 65419, Dec. 17, 1991; 70 FR 50953, Aug. 29, 2005; 86 FR 20438, Apr. 20, 2021]




