# § 760.702   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to CAP. The definitions in parts 718, 760, and 1400 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.


*Acceptable production records* means verifiable or reliable production records deemed acceptable by FSA.


*Application* means the CAP application form.


*Application period* means the 45-day period established by the Deputy Administrator for producers on farms in disaster counties to apply for CAP that ends December 9, 2010.


*Approved yield* means the amount of production per acre, computed in accordance with FCIC's Actual Production History (APH) Program at part 400, subpart G of this title or, for crops not included under part 400, subpart G of this title, the yield used to determine the guarantee. For crops covered under NAP, the approved yield is established according to part 1437 of this title.


*Considered planted* means acreage approved as prevented planted or failed in accordance with § 718.103 of this chapter.


*Crop* means the reported or determined 2009 crop year planted and considered planted acres of long grain rice, medium or short grain rice, upland cotton, soybean, or sweet potatoes as reflected on 2009 crop year form FSA-578, Report of Acreage, for a producer in a disaster county as of October 22, 2010. Subsequent crops, replacement crops, reseeded crops, and replanted crops are not eligible crops under this part and no revision of the Report of Acreage that would increase an eligibility for payment will be permitted to produce that effect.


*Crop year* means for 2009:


(1) For insurable crops, the crop year as defined according to the applicable crop insurance policy;


(2) For NAP covered crops, the crop year as provided in part 1437 of this title.


*Disaster* means excessive moisture or related condition, resulting from any of the following: flood, flash flooding, excessive rain, moisture, humidity, severe storms, thunderstorms, ground saturation or standing water, hail, winter storms, ice storms, snow, blizzard, hurricane, typhoons, tropical storms, and cold wet weather. A disaster does not include brownouts or power failures.


*Disaster county* means a county included in the geographic area covered by a qualifying natural disaster designation under section 321(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961(a)). For CAP, the term “disaster county” is limited to those primary counties declared a disaster by the Secretary for excessive moisture or a related condition, which are limited to designations based on any of the following: flood, flash flooding, excessive rain, moisture, humidity, severe storms, thunderstorms, ground saturation or standing water, hail, winter storms, ice storms, snow, blizzard, hurricane, typhoons, tropical storms, and cold wet weather.


*Expected production* means, for a producer on a farm who attempts to determine what the producer might produce for an eligible crop on a farm, the historic yield multiplied by the producer's share of planted and considered planted acres of the crop for the farm. Expected production may be used to assist producers in determining whether the producer has a crop or crops that suffered a qualifying loss of five percent and to determine whether that crop is eligible for CAP benefits.


*Historic yield* means, for a producer on a farm, the higher of the county average yield or the producer's approved yields for eligible crops on the farm.


(1) An insured producer's yield will be the higher of the county average yield listed or the approved federal crop insurance APH, for the disaster year.


(2) A NAP producer's yield will be the higher of the county average yield or NAP approved yield for the disaster year.


*Replacement crop* means the planting or approved prevented planting of any crop for harvest following the failed planting or prevented planting of a crop of long grain rice, medium or short grain rice, upland cotton, soybeans, or sweet potatoes not in a recognized double-cropping sequence. Replacement crops are not eligible for CAP.


*Reseeded or replanted crop* means the second planting of a crop of long grain rice, medium or short grain rice, upland cotton, soybeans, or sweet potatoes on the same acreage after the first planting of that same crop that failed.




