# § 565.10   Suspension procedures, period of suspension, and replacement rates.

(a)(1) *Suspension prior to effective date.* Pending a determination as to their lawfulness in a prohibition proceeding as described in § 565.9, the Commission may suspend the rates, charges, classifications, rules or regulations at any time before their effective date.


(2) *Suspension after effective date.* In the case of rates, charges, classifications, rules or regulations that have already become effective, the Commission may, upon the issuance of an order to show cause, suspend those rates, charges, classifications, rules or regulations on not less than 30 days' notice to the controlled carrier.


(b) *Period of suspension.* In any case, no period of suspension may be greater than 180 days.


(c) *Implementation.* (1) Upon issuance of an order suspending a rate, charge, classification, rule or regulation in whole or in part, the Commission shall direct the controlled carrier to remove the suspended material from its tariff publication; or


(2) if the matter subject to the suspension order is not covered by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Commission shall set forth procedures in the order for implementing the suspension.


(3) *Publication.* All orders of suspension shall be published in the _Federal Register._

(d) *Replacement rates.* Controlled carriers may publish in tariffs or file in service contracts rates, charges, classifications, rules or regulations in lieu of the suspended matter (“replacement rates”).


(1) *Effective date.* In the case of replacement rates which are published in tariffs and which are scheduled to become effective during a suspension period, may become effective immediately upon either their publication in tariffs or upon the effective date of the suspension, whichever is later.


(2) *Rejection of replacement rates.* The Commission may reject the replacement rates, charges, classifications, rules or regulations published in tariffs or filed in service contracts to take effect during the suspension period if they are unjust and unreasonable. In determining whether to reject replacement rates, charges, classifications, rules or regulations, the Commission will consider whether they would result in total charges (i.e, rate plus applicable surcharges) that are lower than the lowest comparable charges effective for a common carrier, other than a controlled carrier, serving the same trade.


(3) At the same time it announces replacement rates, the controlled carrier shall submit to the Secretary of the Commission, a letter identifying the specific competing common carrier's rates, charges, classification or rules resulting in total charges which are equal to or lower than its own.




