# § 308.303   Filing of safety and soundness compliance plan.

(a) *Schedule for filing compliance plan*—(1) *In general.* A bank or state savings association shall file a written safety and soundness compliance plan with the FDIC within 30 days of receiving a request for a compliance plan pursuant to § 308.302(b), unless the FDIC notifies the bank or state savings association in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period.


(2) *Other plans.* If a bank or state savings association is obligated to file, or is currently operating under, a capital restoration plan submitted pursuant to section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o), a cease-and-desist order entered into pursuant to section 8 of the FDI Act, a formal or informal agreement, or a response to a report of examination or report of inspection, it may, with the permission of the FDIC, submit a compliance plan under this section as part of that plan, order, agreement, or response, subject to the deadline provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Contents of plan.* The compliance plan shall include a description of the steps the bank or state savings association will take to correct the deficiency and the time within which those steps will be taken.


(c) *Review of safety and soundness compliance plans.* Within 30 days after receiving a safety and soundness compliance plan under this subpart, the FDIC shall provide written notice to the bank or state savings association of whether the plan has been approved or seek additional information from the bank or state savings association regarding the plan. The FDIC may extend the time within which notice regarding approval of a plan will be provided.


(d) *Failure to submit or implement a compliance plan*—(1) *Supervisory actions.* If a bank or state savings association fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time specified by the FDIC or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan, then the FDIC shall, by order, require the bank or state savings association to correct the deficiency and may take further actions provided in section 39(e)(2)(B). Pursuant to section 39(e)(3), the FDIC may be required to take certain actions if the bank or state savings association commenced operations or experienced a change in control within the previous 24-month period, or the bank or state savings association experienced extraordinary growth during the previous 18-month period.


(2) *Extraordinary growth.* For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, extraordinary growth means an increase in assets of more than 7.5 percent during any quarter within the 18-month period preceding the issuance of a request for submission of a compliance plan, by a bank or state savings association that is not well capitalized for purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act. For purposes of calculating an increase in assets, assets acquired through merger or acquisition approved pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) will be excluded.


(e) *Amendment of compliance plan.* A bank or state savings association that has filed an approved compliance plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by the FDIC, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the bank or state savings association shall implement the compliance plan as previously approved.




