# § 171.101   Commercial applicator certification categories.

*Certification categories.* Categories of commercial applicators using or supervising the use of restricted use pesticides are identified below.


(a) *Agricultural pest control*—(1) *Crop pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in production of agricultural commodities, including but not limited to grains, vegetables, small fruits, tree fruits, peanuts, tree nuts, tobacco, cotton, feed and forage crops including grasslands, and non-crop agricultural lands.


(2) *Livestock pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides on animals or to places on or in which animals are confined. Certification in this category alone is not sufficient to authorize the purchase, use, or supervision of use of products for predator control listed in paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section.


(b) *Forest pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in forests, forest nurseries and forest seed production.


(c) *Ornamental and turf pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides to control pests in the maintenance and production of ornamental plants and turf.


(d) *Seed treatment.* This category applies to commercial applicators using or supervising the use of restricted use pesticides on seeds in seed treatment facilities.


(e) *Aquatic pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of any restricted use pesticide purposefully applied to standing or running water, excluding applicators engaged in public health related activities included in as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.


(f) *Right-of-way pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in the maintenance of roadsides, powerlines, pipelines, and railway rights-of-way, and similar areas.


(g) *Industrial, institutional, and structural pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in, on, or around the following: Food handling establishments, packing houses, and food-processing facilities; human dwellings; institutions, such as schools, hospitals and prisons; and industrial establishments, including manufacturing facilities, warehouses, grain elevators, and any other structures and adjacent areas, public or private, for the protection of stored, processed, or manufactured products.


(h) *Public health pest control.* This category applies to State, Tribal, Federal or other governmental employees and contractors who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in government-sponsored public health programs for the management and control of pests having medical and public health importance.


(i) *Regulatory pest control.* This category applies to State, Tribal, Federal, or other local governmental employees and contractors who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in government-sponsored programs for the control of regulated pests. Certification in this category does not authorize the purchase, use, or supervision of use of products for predator control listed in paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section.


(j) *Demonstration and research.* This category applies to individuals who demonstrate to the public the proper use and techniques of application of restricted use pesticides or supervise such demonstration and to persons conducting field research with restricted use pesticides, and in doing so, use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides. This includes such individuals as extension specialists and county agents, commercial representatives demonstrating restricted use pesticide products, individuals demonstrating application or pest control methods used in public or private programs, and State, Federal, commercial, and other persons conducting field research on or involving restricted use pesticides.


(k) *Sodium cyanide predator control.* This pest control category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of sodium cyanide in a mechanical ejection device to control regulated predators.


(l) *Sodium fluoroacetate predator control.* This pest control category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of sodium fluoroacetate in a protective collar to control regulated predators.


(m) *Soil fumigation.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of a restricted use pesticide to fumigate soil.


(n) *Non-soil fumigation.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of a restricted use pesticide to fumigate anything other than soil.


(o) *Aerial pest control.* This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides applied by fixed or rotary wing aircraft.




