# ยง 26.10   Service.

(a) *Method of Service.* One copy of all pleadings, motions, and other documents required or permitted under these rules shall be served upon all parties by the person filing them and shall be accompanied by a certificate of service stating how and when such service has been made. Whenever these rules require or permit service to be made upon a party represented by an attorney, the service shall be made upon the attorney, unless service upon the party is ordered by the hearing officer. Service shall be made by delivery, by first class mail or overnight delivery to that person's last known address, by facsimile transmission, or by electronic means; however, the hearing officer may place reasonable limits on service by facsimile transmission or electronic means. Delivery of a copy within this rule means: handing it to the person to be served; or leaving it at that person's office with a clerk or other person in charge; or, if there is no one in charge, leaving it in a conspicuous place in the office; or, if the office is closed or the person to be served has no office, leaving it at that person's residence or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion who resides there. Service by mail, overnight delivery, facsimile transmission, or electronic means is complete upon deposit in a mail box, or upon posting, or upon electronic transmission.


(b) *Proof of Service.* Proof of service shall not be required unless the fact of service is put in issue by appropriate motion or objection on the part of the person allegedly served. In these cases, service may be established by written receipt signed by or on behalf of the person to be served, or may be established prima facie by affidavit, certificate of service of mailing, or electronic receipt of sending.




