# § 143.44   RLF procedure.

(a) *Electronic transmission of invoice data.* For RLF transactions, a customs broker or importer of record must transmit electronically, using EIP, any invoice data required by CBP.


(b) *Electronic transmission of payment.* For RLF transactions, a customs broker or importer of record must direct the electronic payment of duties, taxes and fees through the ACH (*see* 19 CFR 24.25) or any other method of electronic payment authorized by CBP.


(c) *Automation requirements.* Only those entries and entry summaries that CBP processes completely in an electronic data interchange system will be accepted for RLF. For a listing of entry types that may be filed via RLF, go to *http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/trade/trade_programs/remote_location_filing/.*

(d) *Combined electronic entry and entry summary.* For RLF transactions using a combined electronic entry and entry summary, a customs broker must submit to CBP, through ABI or any other electronic interface authorized by CBP, a complete and error-free electronic data transmission constituting the entry summary that serves as both the entry and entry summary.


(e) *No line release or immediate delivery entries permitted under RLF.* Line release (*see* 19 CFR, Part 142, Subpart D) or immediate delivery procedures may not be combined with RLF transactions.


(f) *Data acceptance and release of merchandise.* Data that are complete and error free will be accepted by CBP. If electronic invoice or additional electronic documentation is required, CBP will so notify the RLF filer. If no documentation is required to be filed, CBP will so notify the RLF filer. If CBP accepts the RLF entry (including invoice data) under §§ 143.34 through 143.36 of this part, the RLF entry will be deemed to satisfy all filing requirements under this part and the merchandise may be released.


(g) *Liquidation.* The entry summary will be scheduled for liquidation once payment is made under statement processing (*see* 19 CFR 24.25).




