# § 63.123   Storage vessel provisions—recordkeeping.

(a) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel shall keep readily accessible records showing the dimensions of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel. This record shall be kept as long as the storage vessel retains Group 1 or Group 2 status and is in operation. For each Group 2 storage vessel, the owner or operator is not required to comply with any other provisions of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 of this subpart other than those required by this paragraph unless such vessel is part of an emissions average as described in § 63.150 of this subpart. 


(b) Each owner or operator of a pressure vessel subject to the requirements of § 63.119(a)(7) shall keep readily accessible records as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The date of each performance test conducted according to § 63.119(a)(7)(ii).


(2) The record of each performance test conducted according to § 63.119(a)(7)(ii), including the following:


(i) Date each defect was detected and the instrument reading (in ppmv) during the performance test.


(ii) Date of the next performance test that shows the instrument reading is less than 500 ppmv and the instrument reading (in ppmv) during the performance test.


(iii) Start and end dates of each period after the date in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section when the pressure vessel was completely empty.


(iv) Estimated emissions from each defect.




(c) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(b) of this subpart shall keep a record that each inspection required by § 63.120(a) of this subpart was performed.


(d) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(c) of this subpart shall keep records describing the results of each seal gap measurement made in accordance with § 63.120(b) of this subpart. The records shall include the date of the measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 63.120(b) (3) and (4) of this subpart. 


(e) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(d) of this subpart shall keep a record that each inspection required by § 63.120 (a) and (c) of this subpart was performed. 


(f) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(e) of this subpart shall keep in a readily accessible location the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section. 


(1) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 63.120(d)(5) of this subpart. 


(2) A record of the planned routine maintenance performed on the control device including the duration of each time the control device does not meet the specifications of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, due to the planned routine maintenance. Such a record shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(i) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, were not met at the beginning of the planned routine maintenance, and 


(ii) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 63.119 (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this subpart, as applicable, were met at the conclusion of the planned routine maintenance. 


(g) An owner or operator who elects to utilize an extension in emptying a storage vessel in accordance with § 63.120 (a)(4), (b)(7)(ii), or (b)(8) of this subpart shall keep in a readily accessible location, the documentation specified in § 63.120 (a)(4), (b)(7)(ii), or (b)(8), as applicable. 


(h) An owner or operator who uses the bypass provisions of § 63.119(f)(3) shall keep in a readily accessible location the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The reason it was necessary to bypass the process equipment or fuel gas system;


(2) The duration of the period when the process equipment or fuel gas system was bypassed;


(3) Documentation or certification of compliance with the applicable provisions of § 63.119(f)(3)(i) through (iv).








(i) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.119(g) shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) A record of the U.S. Department of Transportation certification required by § 63.119(g)(2).


(2) A record of the pressure relief vent setting specified in § 63.119(g)(5).


(3) If complying with § 63.119(g)(6)(ii), keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.




(i) A record of the equipment to be used and the procedures to be followed when reloading the railcar, tank truck, or barge and displacing vapors to the storage vessel from which the liquid originates.






(ii) A record of each time the vapor balancing system is used to comply with § 63.119(g)(6)(ii).




(j) For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.120(d)(1)(iii), the owner or operator must keep the applicable records specified in (j)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Breakthrough limit and bed life established according to § 63.120(d)(1)(iii)(A).


(2) Each outlet HAP or TOC concentration measured according to § 63.120(d)(1)(iii)(B) and (C).


(3) Date and time you last replaced the adsorbent.


(k) For storage vessels in ethylene oxide service, subject to the requirements of § 63.124, owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.


(1) For storage vessels in ethylene oxide service, records of the concentration of ethylene oxide of the fluid stored in each storage vessel.


(2) If emissions are vented through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device, then the owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.124(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.





---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 64576, Dec. 5, 1996; 62 FR 2748, Jan. 17, 1997; 69 FR 76863, Dec. 23, 2004; 89 FR 43193, May 16, 2024]








