# ยง 438.214   Provider selection.

(a) *General rules.* The State must ensure, through its contracts, that each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP implements written policies and procedures for selection and retention of network providers and that those policies and procedures, at a minimum, meet the requirements of this section.


(b) *Credentialing and recredentialing requirements.* (1) Each State must establish a uniform credentialing and recredentialing policy that addresses acute, primary, mental health, substance use disorders, and LTSS providers, as appropriate, and requires each MCO, PIHP and PAHP to follow those policies.




(2) Each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP must follow a documented process for credentialing and recredentialing of network providers.


(c) *Nondiscrimination.* MCO, PIHP, and PAHP network provider selection policies and procedures, consistent with ยง 438.12, must not discriminate against particular providers that serve high-risk populations or specialize in conditions that require costly treatment.


(d) *Excluded providers.* (1) MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs may not employ or contract with providers excluded from participation in Federal health care programs under either section 1128 or section 1128A of the Act.


(2) States must ensure through its contracts that MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs terminate any providers of services or persons terminated (as described in section 1902(kk)(8) of the Social Security Act) from participation under this title, title XVIII, or title XXI from participating as a provider in any network.


(e) *State requirements.* Each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP must comply with any additional requirements established by the State.



---

[N] [81 FR 27853, May 6, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 41278, May 10, 2024]








