# ยง 982.554   Informal review for applicant.

(a) *Notice to applicant.* The PHA must give an applicant for participation prompt notice of a decision denying assistance to the applicant. The notice must contain a brief statement of the reasons for the PHA decision. The notice must also state that the applicant may request an informal review of the decision and must describe how to obtain the informal review.


(b) *Informal review process.* The PHA must give an applicant an opportunity for an informal review of the PHA decision denying assistance to the applicant. The Administrative Plan must state the PHA procedures for conducting an informal review. The PHA review procedures must comply with the following:


(1) The review may be conducted by any person or persons designated by the PHA, other than a person who made or approved the decision under review or a subordinate of this person.


(2) The applicant must be given an opportunity to present written or oral objections to the PHA decision.


(3) The PHA must notify the applicant of the PHA final decision after the informal review, including a brief statement of the reasons for the final decision.


(c) *When informal review is not required.* The PHA is not required to provide the applicant an opportunity for an informal review for any of the following:


(1) Discretionary administrative determinations by the PHA.


(2) General policy issues or class grievances.


(3) A determination of the family unit size under the PHA subsidy standards.


(4) A PHA determination not to approve an extension of the voucher term.


(5) A PHA determination not to grant approval of the tenancy.


(6) An PHA determination that a unit selected by the applicant is not in compliance with HQS.


(7) An PHA determination that the unit is not in accordance with HQS because of the family size or composition.


(d) *Restrictions on assistance for noncitizens.* The informal hearing provisions for the denial of assistance on the basis of ineligible immigration status are contained in 24 CFR part 5.



---

[N] [60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995; 61 FR 13627, Mar. 27, 1996; 64 FR 26650, May 14, 1999; 80 FR 50575, Aug. 20, 2015]




