# § 165.513   Safety Zone; Magothy River, Sillery Bay, MD.

(a) *Regulated area.* The following area is a safety zone: All waters of the Magothy River, in Sillery Bay, contained within lines connecting the following positions: From position latitude 39°04′40″ N, longitude 076°27′44″ W; thence to position latitude 39°04′48″ N, longitude 076°27′19″ W; thence to position latitude 39°04′59″ N, longitude 076°27′45″ W; thence to position latitude 39°04′59″ N, longitude 076°28′01″ W; thence to position latitude 39°04′41″ N, longitude 076°27′51″ W; thence to the point of origin at position latitude 39°04′40″ N, longitude 076°27′44″ W. All coordinates reference Datum NAD 1983.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


(1) *Captain of the Port Baltimore* means the Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Sector Baltimore, Maryland.


(2) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port Baltimore to assist in enforcing the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing safety zones found in 33 CFR 165.23.


(2) All vessels and persons are prohibited from entering and accessing this safety zone, except as authorized by the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative.


(3) Persons or vessels requiring entry into or passage within the safety zone must request authorization from the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative, by telephone at (410) 576-2693 or by marine band radio on VHF-FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHz), from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m. on the fourth Saturday in July annually. All Coast Guard vessels enforcing this safety zone can be contacted on marine band radio VHF-FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHz).


(4) All vessels and persons must comply with instructions of the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative.


(5) The operator of any vessel entering or located within this safety zone shall:


(i) Travel at no-wake speed,


(ii) Stop the vessel immediately upon being directed to do so by any commissioned, warrant or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign, and


(iii) Proceed as directed by any commissioned, warrant or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign.


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the safety zone by any Federal, State, and local agencies.


(e) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m. on the fourth Saturday in July annually.



---

[N] [USCG-2012-0001, 77 FR 24840, Apr. 26, 2012, as amended by USCG-2016-0060, 81 FR 38595, June 14, 2016]




