# ยง 721.7   What are the potential conflicts of interest for officials and employees when credit unions engage in activities approved under this part?

(a) *Conflicts.* No official, employee, or their immediate family member may receive any compensation or benefit, directly or indirectly, in connection with your engagement in an activity authorized under this part, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section. This section does not apply if a conflicts of interest provision within another section of this chapter applies to a particular activity; in such case, the more specific conflicts of interest provision controls. For example: An official or employee that refers loan-related products offered by a third-party to a member, in connection with a loan made by you, is subject to the conflicts of interest provision in ยง 701.21(c)(8) of this chapter.


(b) *Permissible payments.* This section does not prohibit:


(1) Payment, by you, of salary to your employees;


(2) Payment, by you, of an incentive or bonus to an employee based on your overall financial performance;


(3) Payment, by you, of an incentive or bonus to an employee, other than a senior management employee or paid official, in connection with an activity authorized by this part, provided that your board of directors establishes written policies and internal controls for the incentive program and monitors compliance with such policies and controls at least annually; and


(4) Payment, by a person other than you, of any compensation or benefit to an employee, other than a senior management employee or paid official, in connection with an activity authorized by this part, provided that your board of directors establishes written policies and internal controls regarding third-party compensation and determines that the employee's involvement does not present a conflict of interest.


(c) *Business associates and family members.* All transactions with business associates or family members not specifically prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted at arm's length and in the interest of the credit union.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply.


(1) *Senior management employee* means your chief executive officer (typically, this individual holds the title of President or Treasurer/Manager), any assistant chief executive officers (e.g. Assistant President, Vice President, or Assistant Treasurer/Manager), and the chief financial officer (Comptroller).


(2) *Official* means any member of your board of directors, credit committee or supervisory committee.


(3) *Immediate family member* means a spouse or other family member living in the same household. 




