# ยง 221.255   Assignment option.

(a) A mortgagee holding a mortgage insured pursuant to a conditional or firm commitment issued on or before November 30, 1983 has the option to assign, transfer and deliver to the Commissioner the original credit instrument and the mortgage securing it, provided the mortgage is not in default at the expiration of 20 years from the date of final endorsement of the credit instrument. In processing a mortgagee's claim for insurance benefits under this section, the Commissioner may direct the mortgagee to assign, transfer and deliver the original credit instrument, and the mortgage securing it, directly to the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). Upon such assignment, transfer and delivery, either to the Commissioner or to GNMA, as directed, the mortgage insurance contract shall terminate and the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive insurance benefits in accordance with this section.


(b) The mortgagee may exercise its assignment option within 1 year following the twentieth anniversary of the date the mortgage was endorsed for insurance. 


(c) Upon the exercise of the assignment option the Commissioner shall issue to the assignor mortgagee debentures having a total face value equal to the amount of the original principal obligation of the mortgage which was unpaid on the date of the assignment, plus accrued interest to such date. 


(d) The debentures issued pursuant to the exercise of an assignment option shall be dated as of the date the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner and shall mature 10 years after such date. 


(e) The debentures issued pursuant to the exercise of an assignment option shall bear interest at the *going Federal rate* at date of issuance. The *going Federal rate* means the annual rate of interest specified by the Secretary of the Treasury as applicable to the 6-month period which includes the issuance date of the debentures. The Secretary of the Treasury shall determine this applicable rate by estimating the average yield to maturity, on the basis of daily closing market bid quotations or prices during the month of May or the month of November, as the case may be, next preceding such 6-month period, on all outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having a maturity date of 8 to 12 years from the first day of May or November, as the case may be. If there should be no outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having the 8 to 12 year maturity at the time the Secretary of the Treasury is required to determine the debenture rate involved, the obligation next shorter than 8 years and the obligation next longer than 12 years respectively, shall be used. 


(f) Debentures shall bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect on the issue date, a date which shall be established as provided in ยง 203.410 of this chapter. The interest rate shall be established by the Commissioner in an amount not in excess of the annual rate of interest which the Secretary of the Treasury shall specify as applicable to the 6-month period (consisting of January through June, or July through December) which includes the issuance date of such debentures, which applicable rate for each 6-month period shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, at the request of the Commissioner, by estimating the average yield to maturity, on the basis of daily closing market bid quotations or prices during the calendar month next preceding the establishment of such rate of interest, on all outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having a maturity date of 15 years or more from the first day of such next preceding month, and by adjusting such estimated average annual yield to the nearest one-eighth of 1 per centum. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 49 FR 12697, Mar. 30, 1984]




