# ยง 3550.102   Grant and loan purposes.

(a) *Grant funds.* Grant funds may be used only to pay costs for repairs and improvements that will remove identified health and safety hazards or to repair or remodel dwellings to make them accessible and useable for household members with disabilities. Unused grant funds must be returned to the Rural Housing Service (RHS). 


(b) *Loan funds.* Loan funds may be used to make general repairs and improvements to properties or to remove health and safety hazards, as long as the dwelling remains modest in size and design. 


(c) *Eligibility of mobile and manufactured homes.* Repairs necessary to remove health and safety hazards may be made to mobile or manufactured homes provided: 


(1) The applicant owns the home and site and has occupied the home prior to filing an application with RHS; and 


(2) The mobile or manufactured home is on a permanent foundation or will be put on a permanent foundation with section 504 funds. 


(d) *Eligible costs.* In addition to construction costs to make necessary repairs and improvements, loan and grant funds may be used for: 


(1) Reasonable expenses related to obtaining the loan or grant, including legal, architectural and engineering, title clearance, and loan closing fees; and appraisal, surveying, environmental, tax monitoring, and other technical services. 


(2) The cost of providing special design features or equipment when necessary because of a physical disability of the applicant or a member of the household. 


(3) Reasonable connection fees, assessments, or the pro rata installation costs for utilities such as water, sewer, electricity, and gas for which the borrower is liable and which are not paid from other funds. 


(4) Real estate taxes that are due and payable on the property at the time of closing and for the establishment of escrow accounts for real estate taxes, hazard and flood insurance premiums, and related costs. 


(5) Fees to public and private nonprofit organizations that are tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code for the development and packaging of applications. 


(e) *Restrictions on uses of loan or grant funds.* Section 504 funds may not be used to: 


(1) Assist in the construction of a new dwelling. 


(2) Make repairs to a dwelling in such poor condition that when the repairs are completed, the dwelling will continue to have major hazards. 


(3) Move a mobile home or manufactured home from one site to another. 


(4) Pay for off-site improvements except for the necessary installation and assessment costs for utilities. 




(5) Refinance any debt or obligation of the applicant incurred before the date of application except for the installation and assessment costs of utilities; or subject to the availability of funds and program priorities as determined by RHS, refinance of an existing RHS loan in accordance with ยง 3550.201 as a special servicing option, including but not limited to refinancing at the end of a moratorium.






(6) Pay fees, commission, or charges to for-profit entities related to loan packaging or referral of prospective applicants to RHS. 







---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996, as amended at 87 FR 6772, Feb. 7, 2022]




