# § 67.01-5   Definitions.

(a) *Structures.* The term “structures” as used in this part shall include all fixed structures, temporary or permanent, for which a Corps of Engineers' permit is issued. It shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, all drilling platforms, Mobile Offshore Drilling Units (MODUs) when attached to the bottom, production platforms, quarters platforms, pipe line riser platforms, manifold platforms, loading platforms, boat landings, caissons, well protective structures, tank battery barges submerged on station, drilling barges submerged on location, breakwater barges submerged on location, artificial islands and all other piles, pile clusters, pipes, or structures erected in the waters. 


(b) *Class “A”, “B”, or “C” structures.* The term “Class A, B, or C structures” refers to the classification assigned to structures erected in areas in which corresponding requirements for marking are prescribed. 


(c) *Line of demarcation.* The term “line of demarcation” means the dividing line used administratively to distinguish between the areas in which structures shall conform to Class “A” and Class “B” or “C” requirements. 


(d) *Outer Continental Shelf.* The term “Outer Continental Shelf” means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in the Submerged Lands Act (sec. 2, 67 Stat. 29, 43 U. S. C. 1301), and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control. 


(e) *Reliable operation.* The term “reliable” as used in this part shall mean that dependability which will insure to the highest degree reasonably possible the uninterrupted operation of lights and sound signals as private aids to navigation for safety of marine commerce. 


(f) *Sound signal.* The term “sound signal” as used in this part shall mean the audible sound signal, authorized as a private aid to navigation, to mark a structure for the safety of marine commerce whenever the visibility has been reduced by fog, mist, rain, falling snow, smoke, dust, or other phenomena. 



---

[N] [CGFR 58-17, 23 FR 3377, May 20, 1958, as amended by CGFR 63-18, 28 FR 4026, Apr. 14, 1963; USCG-2001-10714, 69 FR 24983, May 5, 2004] 




