# § 103.8   Final agency decision after administrative proceedings.

(a) *Review of initial decision*—(1) *Petition for review.* Any party may, within 7 days of the Administrative Law Judge's (ALJ) certification of the initial decision and order, petition the Secretary for review of the initial decision. A petition for review shall be addressed to and served on the Executive Director of the Office of the Legal Adviser, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street, N.W., Room 5519, Washington D.C. 20520, and shall also be served on the Chief Counsel for Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Room H-3839, Washington, D.C. 20230, and on the respondent. Petitions for review may be filed only on one or more of the following grounds:


(i) That a necessary finding of fact is omitted, erroneous or not supported by substantial evidence of record;


(ii) That a necessary legal conclusion or finding is contrary to law;


(iii) That a prejudicial procedural error has occurred; or


(iv) That the decision or the extent of sanctions is arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion.


(2) *Content of petition for review.* The petition must specifically set forth the grounds on which review is requested and be supported by citations to the record, statutes, regulations, and principal authorities.


(3) *Decision to review.* Review of the initial decision by the Secretary is discretionary, and is not a matter of right. The Secretary shall accept or decline review of the initial decision and order within 3 days after a petition for review is filed. If no such petition is filed, the Secretary may, on his or her own initiative, notify the parties within 10 days after the ALJ's certification of the initial decision and order that he or she intends to exercise his or her discretion to review the initial decision.


(4) *Effect of decision to review.* The initial decision is stayed until further order of the Secretary upon a timely petition for review, or upon action to review taken by the Secretary on his or her own initiative.


(5) *Review declined.* If the Secretary declines to exercise discretionary review, such order, and the resulting final agency decision, will be served on all parties personally, by overnight mail, or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The Secretary need not give reasons for declining review.


(6) *Review accepted.* If the Secretary grants a petition for review or decides to review the initial decision on his or her own initiative, he or she will issue an order confirming that acceptance and specifying any issues to be briefed by all parties within 10 days after the order. Briefing shall be limited to the issues specified in the order. Only those issues specified in the order will be considered by the Secretary. The parties may, within 5 days after the filing of any brief of the issues, file and serve a reply to that brief. The Department of Commerce shall review all written submissions, and, based on the record, make a recommendation to the Secretary as to whether the ALJ's initial decision should be modified or vacated. The Secretary will make a final decision within 30 days after the ALJ's certification of the initial decision and order.


(b) *Final decision.* Unless the Secretary, within 30 days after the date of the ALJ's certification of the initial decision and order, modifies or vacates the decision and order, with or without conditions, the ALJ's initial decision and order shall become effective as the final decision and order of the United States Government. If the Secretary does modify or vacate the initial decision and order, that decision and order of the Secretary shall become the final decision and order of the United States Government. The final decision and order shall be served on the parties and will be made available to the public.


(c) *Computation of time for the purposes of this section.* In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this section, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run is not included. The last day of the period is computed to be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday (as defined in Rule 6(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure), in which case the period runs until the end of the next day that is neither a Saturday, a Sunday, nor a legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays are excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed is 7 days or less.




