# § 231.305   Procedures for review.

(a) During the review, the Secretary may request additional information from the covered entity. The covered entity shall promptly provide any additional information. The Secretary will determine whether the additional information is sufficient for the Secretary to complete the review, and may seek additional information from the covered entity if necessary. Where the Secretary has determined that the additional information is sufficient to allow the Secretary to complete the review, the Secretary will inform the covered entity in writing. The time periods for any determinations by the Secretary under this section will be tolled from the date on which the request for additional information is sent to the covered entity until the Secretary determines that the response is sufficient to complete the review.


(b) Not later than 90 days after a notification is accepted by the Secretary, or after the Secretary initiates a review under § 231.304(a)(2), and subject to any tolling pursuant to § paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will provide the covered entity an initial determination in writing as to whether the transaction would violate § 231.202. The initial determination may include a finding that the covered entity or a member of the affiliated group has violated § 231.202.


(c) If the Secretary's initial determination is that the transaction would violate § 231.202 or that the covered entity or a member of the affiliated group has violated § 231.202 by engaging in a prohibited significant transaction, then:


(1) The covered entity may within 14 days of receipt of the initial determination request that the Secretary reevaluate the initial determination, including by submitting additional information.


(2) If the covered entity does not make such a request within 14 days of receipt of the initial determination, the initial determination will become final. If the covered entity recipient does request a reconsideration of the initial determination, the Secretary will issue the final determination within 60 days after the receipt by the Secretary of the request for reconsideration.


(3) Upon the issuance of a final determination that a transaction would violate § 231.202 or that the covered entity or a member of the affiliated group has violated § 231.202 by engaging in a prohibited significant transaction, the covered entity must cease or abandon the transaction (or, if applicable, ensure that the member of the affiliated group ceases or abandons the transaction), and the covered entity's chief executive officer, president, or equivalent corporate official, must provide a signed letter electronically to *notifications@chips.gov* within 45 days of the final determination certifying that the transaction has ceased or been abandoned. Such letter must certify, under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001), that the information in the letter is accurate and complete.


(d) Unless recovery is waived pursuant to § 231.306, a violation of § 231.202 for engaging in a prohibited significant transaction or failing to cease or abandon a planned significant transaction that the Secretary has determined would be in violation of § 231.202 will result in the recovery of the full amount of the Federal financial assistance provided to the covered entity, which amount will be a debt owed to the U.S. Government.


(e) The running of any deadline or time limitation for the Secretary will be suspended during a lapse in appropriations.






