# § 24.154   Superseding bonds and new bonds for existing proprietors.

(a) *Superseding bonds.* When, in the opinion of the appropriate TTB officer, the interests of the Government demand it, or in any case where the validity of the bond becomes impaired in whole or in part for any reason, the principal must give a new bond that supersedes the existing bond. A superseding bond will be required immediately in the case of the insolvency of a corporate surety. Executors, administrators, assignees, receivers, trustees, or other persons acting in a fiduciary capacity, to continue or to liquidate the business of the principal, must execute and file a superseding bond or obtain the consent of the surety or sureties on the existing bond or bonds. When under the provisions of § 24.157 the surety has filed an application to be relieved of liability under any bond given under this part and the principal desires or intends to continue business or operations to which the bond relates, the principal must file a valid superseding bond to be effective on or before the date specified in the surety's notice. Superseding bonds will show the current date of execution and the effective date.


(b) *New bonds for existing proprietors*—(1) *General.* Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if an existing proprietor has not furnished a bond or bonds covering operations and withdrawals of wine for nonindustrial use because the proprietor was exempt from bond requirements under § 24.146(d), the proprietor must furnish a bond or bonds as provided in this subpart beginning in any portion of a calendar year following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due from the proprietor during the calendar year exceeds $50,000. When furnishing the bond or bonds, the proprietor must also file an amended application as provided in § 24.132 to change the proprietor's bond status.


(2) *Grace period for wine bonds under § 24.146(a).* An existing proprietor who must furnish a wine bond under § 24.146(a) as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be treated as having furnished the required bond if the proprietor submits the bond on TTB F 5120.36 no later than 30 days following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due from the proprietor during the relevant calendar year exceeds $50,000. The proprietor will be treated as having furnished the required wine bond for purposes of this paragraph until TTB approves or disapproves the bond. Until TTB takes action on a bond submission, a proprietor who complies with the requirements of this paragraph may remove wine on which the tax has been determined, but not paid, to the extent that the proprietor's liability for tax on those removals does not exceed $1,000.


(3) *Tax deferral bonds under § 24.146(b).* The grace period specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not apply to tax deferral bonds under § 24.146(b). Except to the extent authorized under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a proprietor who must furnish a tax deferral bond under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may not withdraw wine from the bonded premises on which the tax has been determined, but not paid, until TTB approves the tax deferral bond.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1125, Jan. 4, 2017]




