# ยง 332.5   Annual privacy notice to customers required.

(a)(1) *General rule.* You must provide a clear and conspicuous notice to customers that accurately reflects your privacy policies and practices not less than annually during the continuation of the customer relationship. *Annually* means at least once in any period of 12 consecutive months during which that relationship exists. You may define the 12-consecutive-month period, but you must apply it to the customer on a consistent basis. 


(2) *Example.* You provide a notice annually if you define the 12-consecutive-month period as a calendar year and provide the annual notice to the customer once in each calendar year following the calendar year in which you provided the initial notice. For example, if a customer opens an account on any day of year 1, you must provide an annual notice to that customer by December 31 of year 2. 


(b)(1) *Termination of customer relationship.* You are not required to provide an annual notice to a former customer. 


(2) *Examples.* Your customer becomes a former customer when: 


(i) In the case of a deposit account, the account is inactive under your policies; 


(ii) In the case of a closed-end loan, the customer pays the loan in full, you charge off the loan, or you sell the loan without retaining servicing rights; 


(iii) In the case of a credit card relationship or other open-end credit relationship, you no longer provide any statements or notices to the customer concerning that relationship or you sell the credit card receivables without retaining servicing rights; or


(iv) You have not communicated with the customer about the relationship for a period of 12 consecutive months, other than to provide annual privacy notices or promotional material. 


(c) *Special rule for loans.* If you do not have a customer relationship with a consumer under the special rule for loans in ยง 332.4(c)(2), then you need not provide an annual notice to that consumer under this section. 


(d) *Delivery.* When you are required to deliver an annual privacy notice by this section, you must deliver it according to ยง 332.9. 




