# § 211.3   Cooperating sponsor agreements; program procedure.

(a) *Food for Peace Program Agreement.* A nongovernmental organization is eligible to be a cooperating sponsor for regular programs under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section only after it has entered into a Food For Peace Program Agreement with A.I.D. that incorporates the terms and conditions set forth in Regulation 11. 


(b) *Host Country Food for Peace Program Agreement.* Nongovernmental and intergovernmental cooperating sponsors shall, in addition to the Food for Peace Program Agreement, enter into a separate written Host Country Food for Peace Agreement with the foreign government of each country for which title II commodities are transferred to the cooperating sponsor. This agreement shall establish the terms and conditions needed by a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor to conduct a title II program in the country in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part. The cooperating sponsor shall provide USAID or the Diplomatic Post a copy of each executed Host Country Food for Peace Agreement. 


Where such written agreement is not appropriate or feasible, USAID or the Diplomatic Post shall assure AID/W, in writing, that the program can be effectively implemented in compliance with this Regulation without such an agreement. 


(c) *Recipient Agency Agreement.* Prior to the transfer of commodities, monetized proceeds, or program income to a recipient agency for distribution or implementation of an approved program, the cooperating sponsor shall execute with such agency a written agreement which shall:


(1) Describe the approved uses of commodities, monetized proceeds and program income in a manner consistent with the approved Operational Plan or TA; 


(2) Require the recipient agency to pay the cooperating sponsor the value of any commodities, monetized proceeds or program income that are used for purposes not permitted under the Recipient Agency Agreement or that are lost, damaged or misused as a result of the recipient agency's failure to exercise reasonable care with respect to such commodities, monetized proceeds or program income; and 


(3) Incorporate by reference or otherwise the terms and conditions set forth in this Regulation 11. 


(d) *Program procedure*—(1) *Requests for programs.* A program may be requested by any cooperating sponsor, including private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, foreign governments (for emergencies only), and international organizations. 


(2) *Approval of programs.* There are two basic patterns of decision typically employed in approving a request for title II assistance: 


(i) *Regular programs.* The cooperating sponsor submits to A.I.D. an Operational Plan or multi-year Operational Plan (see appendix I), describing the program proposed. Also, an AER will be submitted to A.I.D. along with the Operational Plan, estimating the quantities of commodities required for each program proposed. AID/W's approval of and signature on the AER completes this decision process. 


(ii) *Individual programs.* The other basic pattern of decision making results in a Transfer Authorization. The TA is used for all emergency government-to-government programs, and for nongovernmental cooperating sponsor programs which do not fit within the Program Agreement/AER framework. The TA will include by reference Regulation 11. 


(3) *Subject to availability.* A.I.D.'s agreement to transfer commodities is subject to the availability of appropriations and agricultural commodities during each United States Government fiscal year to which it applies. 


(4) *Timing of decision.* Under Public Law 480, section 207(a), within 45 days of its submission to AID/W, a decision must be made on a proposal submitted by a private voluntary organization or cooperative, concurred in by USAID or the Diplomatic Post. The decision shall detail the reasons for approval or denial, and if denied, conditions to be met for approval. In addition, a USAID or Diplomatic Post must decide whether or not to concur in the proposal within 45 days of receiving it or provide a written explanation to the private voluntary organization or cooperative and AID/W of the reasons USAID or the Diplomatic Post needs more time to consider the proposal. 




