# ยง 300.226   Oceanic whitetip shark and silky shark.

None of the requirements of this section apply in the Overlap Area.










(a) The crew, operator, and owner and operator of a fishing vessel of the United States used for commercial fishing for HMS cannot retain on board, transship, store, or land any part or whole carcass of an oceanic whitetip shark (*Carcharhinus longimanus)* or silky shark (*Carcharhinus falciformis*) that is caught in the Convention Area unless subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) or (e) of this section.


(b) The crew, operator, and owner and operator of a fishing vessel of the United States used for commercial fishing for HMS must release any oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark that is caught in the Convention Area as soon as possible after the shark is caught and brought alongside the vessel, and take reasonable steps for its safe release, without compromising the safety of any persons, unless subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) or (e) of this section.






(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply in the event that a WCPFC observer collects, or requests the assistance of the vessel crew, operator, or owner in the observer's collection of, samples of oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark in the Convention Area.


(d) The crew, operator, and owner of a fishing vessel of the United States used for commercial fishing for HMS in the Convention Area must allow and assist a WCPFC observer to collect samples of oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark in the Convention Area, if requested to do so by the WCPFC observer.




(e) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply in the event that any oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark is not seen by the crew, operator, or owner of a purse seine vessel, or any WCPFC observer on board that vessel, prior to being delivered into the vessel hold and frozen. In such a case, oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark could be stored and landed, but the vessel owner or operator must notify the on-board observer and surrender the whole shark to the responsible government authorities or discard the shark at the first point of landing or transshipment. In U.S. ports, the responsible government authority is the NOAA Office of Law Enforcement. Any oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark surrendered in this manner may not be sold or bartered, but may be donated for human consumption, consistent with any applicable laws and policies.







---

[N] [80 FR 8816, Feb. 19, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 37390, June 22, 2020; 88 FR 30678, May 12, 2023]




