# ยง 1400.3   Public access to paper copies of off-site consequence analysis information.

(a) *General.* The Administrator and the Attorney General shall ensure that any member of the public has access to a paper copy of OCA information in the manner prescribed by this section. 


(b) *Reading-room access.* Paper copies of OCA information shall be available in at least 50 reading rooms geographically distributed across the United States and its territories. The reading rooms shall allow any person to read, but not remove or mechanically reproduce, a paper copy of OCA information, in accordance with paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section and procedures established by the Administrator and Attorney General. 


(c) *Limited number.* Any person shall be provided with access to a paper copy of the OCA information for up to 10 stationary sources located anywhere in the country, without geographical restriction, in a calendar month. 


(d) *Additional access.* Any person also shall be provided with access to a paper copy of the OCA information for stationary sources located in the jurisdiction of the LEPC where the person lives or works and for any other stationary source that has a vulnerable zone that extends into that LEPC's jurisdiction. 


(e) *Personal identification for access to OCA information without geographical restriction.* Reading rooms established under this section shall provide a person with access to a paper copy of OCA information under paragraph (c) of this section only after a reading room representative has 


(1) Ascertained the person's identity by viewing photo identification issued by a Federal, State, or local government agency to the person; and 


(2) Obtained the person's signature on a sign-in sheet and a certification that the person has not received access to OCA information for more than 10 stationary sources for that calendar month. 


(f) *Personal identification for access to local OCA information.* Reading rooms established under this section shall provide a person with access to a paper copy of OCA information under paragraph (d) of this section only after a reading room representative has 


(1) Ascertained where the person lives or works by viewing appropriate documentation; and 


(2) Obtained the person's signature on a sign-in sheet. 


(g) *Record keeping.* Reading room personnel shall keep records of reading room use and certifications in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator and the Attorney General. These records shall be retained for no more than three years. Federal reading rooms will not index or otherwise manipulate the sign-in sheets according to individuals' names, except in accordance with the Privacy Act. 




