# § 721.305   Di-substituted acetophenone (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as di-substituted acetophenone (PMN P-97-93) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v). The following statement shall appear on each label as specified in § 721.72(b) and the SDS as specified in § 721.72(c): This substance is expected to be dermally absorbed and may cause effects to the liver, kidney, adrenal glands, and the heart.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 44574, Aug. 20, 1998]




