# § 721.11550   Halogenated alkylbenzoic acid (generic) (P-19-179).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halogenated alkylbenzoic acid (PMN P-19-179) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (iii), and (iv), (a)(3) through (6), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate, gas/vapor (all substances in the gas form), combination gas/vapor and particulate (gas and liquid/solid physical states are present; a good example is paint spray mist, which contains both liquid droplets and vapor). For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA Order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.0195 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach that are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA Order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f) and (g)(1), (2), and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Skin irritation; eye irritation; respiratory complications; central nervous system effects; internal organ effects; reproductive effects; developmental effects. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(2), when using this substance: Avoid skin contact; avoid breathing the substance; avoid ingestion; use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.0195 mg/m
3; use skin protection. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k), (q), and (t). It is a significant new use to manufacture or process the substance without implementing the engineering controls/processes described in the TSCA Order for the substance.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 70390, Dec. 10, 2021]




