# § 1.6038B-1T   Reporting of certain transactions to foreign corporations (temporary).

(a) through (b)(3) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1(a) through (b)(3).


(4) *Date of transfer*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the date of a transfer described in section 367 is the first date on which title to, possession of, or rights to the use of stock, securities, or other property passes pursuant to the plan for purposes of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. A transfer will not be considered to begin with a decision of a board of directors or similar action unless the transaction otherwise takes effect for purposes of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code on that date.


(ii) *Termination of section 1504(d) election.* A transfer deemed to occur as a result of the termination of an election under section 1504(d) will be considered to occur on the date the contiguous country corporation first fails to continue to qualify for the election under section 1504(d). The rule of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) is illustrated by the following example.


(iii) *Change in classification.* A transfer deemed to occur as a result of a change in classification of an entity caused by a change in the governing documents, articles, or agreements of the entity (as described in § 1.367(a)-1T(c)(6)) will be considered to occur on the date that such changes take effect for purposes of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code.


(iv) *U.S. resident under section 6013 (g) or (h).* A transfer made by an alien individual who is considered to be a U.S. resident by reason of a timely election under section 6013 (g) or (h) will be considered to occur, for purposes of this section (but not for purposes of section 367), on the later of—


(A) The date on which the election under section 6013 (g) or (h) is made; or


(B) The date on which the transfer would otherwise be considered to occur under the rules of this paragraph (b)(3).


(c) Introductory text [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1(c).


(1) *Transferor.* Provide the name, U.S. taxpayer identification number, and address of the U.S. person making the transfer.


(2) *Transfer.* Provide the following information concerning the transfer:


(i) Name, U.S. taxpayer identification number (if any), address, and country of incorporation of transferee foreign corporation;


(ii) A general description of the transfer, and any wider transaction of which it forms a part, including a chronology of the transfers involved and an identification of the other parties to the transaction to the extent known.


(3) *Consideration received.* Provide a description of the consideration received by the U.S. person making the transfer, including its estimated fair market value and, in the case of stock or securities, the class or type, amount, and characteristics of the interest received.


(4) *Property transferred.* Provide a description of the property transferred. The description must be divided into the following categories, and must include the estimated fair market value and adjusted basis of the property, as well as any additional information specified below.


(i) through (c)(5) introductory text [Reserved]


(i) *Branch operation.* Describe the foreign branch the property of which is transferred, in accordance with the definition of § 1.367(a)-6T(g).


(ii) *Branch property.* Describe the property of the foreign branch, including its adjusted basis and fair market value. For this purpose property must be identified with reasonable particularity, but may be identified by category rather than listing every asset separately. Substantially similar property may be listed together for this purpose, and property of minor value may be grouped into functional categories. For example, a reasonable description of the property of a business office might include the following categories: Word processing or data processing equipment, other office equipment and furniture, and office supplies.


(iii) *Previously deducted losses.* Set forth a detailed calculation of the sum of the losses incurred by the foreign branch before the transfer, and a detailed calculation of any reduction of such losses, in accordance with § 1.367(a)-6T (d) and (e).


(iv) *Character of gain.* Set forth a statement of the character of the gain required to be recognized, in accordance with § 1.367(a)-6T(c)(1).


(6) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1(c)(6).


(d) *Transfers subject to section 367(d)*—(1) *Initial transfer.* A U.S. person that transfers inntangible property to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 351 or 361 must provide the following information in paragraphs labelled to correspond with the number or letter set forth below. If a particular item is not applicable to the subject transfer, list its heading and state that it is not applicable. The information required by subdivisions (i) through (iii) need only be provided if such information was not otherwise provided under paragraph (c) of this section. (Note that the U.S. transferor may subsequently be required to file another return under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.)


(i) *Transferor.* Provide the name, U.S. taxpayer identification number, and address of the U.S. person making the transfer.


(ii) *Transfer.* Provide information concerning the transfer, including:


(A) Name, U.S. taxpayer identification number (if any), address, and country of incorporation of the transferee foreign corporation;


(B) A general description of the transfer, and any wider transaction of which it forms a part, including a chronology of the transfers involved and an identification of the other parties to the transaction to the extent known.


(iii) *Consideration received.* Provide a description of the consideration received by the U.S. person making the transfer, including its estimated fair market value and, in the case of stock or securities, the class or type, amount, and characteristics of the interest received.


(iv) [Reserved] 


(v) *Annual payment.* Provide and explain the calculation of the annual deemed payment for the use of the intangible property required to be recognized by the transferor under the rules of section 367(d).


(vi) *Election to treat as sale.* List any intangible with respect to which an election is being made under § 1.367(d)-1T(g)(2) to treat the transfer as a sale. Include the fair market value of the intangible on the date of the transfer and a calculation of the gain required to be recognized in the year of the transfer by reason of the election.


(vii) [Reserved] 


(viii) *Other intangibles.* Describe any intangible property sold or licensed by the transferor to the transferee foreign corporation, and set forth the general terms of each sale or license.


(2) *Subsequent transfers.* If a U.S. person transfers intangible property to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 351 or 361, and at any time thereafter (within the useful life of the intangible property) either that U.S. person disposes of the stock of the transferee foreign corporation or the transferee foreign corporation disposes of the transferred intangible, then the U.S. person must provide the following information in paragraphs labelled to correspond with the number or letter set forth below. The information required by subdivisions (i) and (ii) need only be provided if such information was not otherwise provided in the same return, pursuant to paragraph (c) or (d)(1) of this section. For purposes of determining the date on which a return under this subparagraph (2) is required to be filed, the date of transfer is the date of the subsequent transfer of stock or intangible property.


(i) *Transferor.* Provide the name, U.S. taxpayer identification number, and address of the U.S. person making the transfer.


(ii) *Initial transfer.* Provide the following information concerning the initial transfer:


(A) The date of the transfer;


(B) The name, U.S. taxpayer identification number (if any), address, and country of incorporation of the transferee foreign corporation; and


(C) A general description of the transfer and any wider transaction of which it formed a part.


(iii) *Subsequent transfer.* For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(d)(2)(iii) introductory text:


(A) A general description of the subsequent transfer and any wider transaction of which it forms a part;


(B) A calculation of any gain required to be recognized by the U.S. person under the rules of § 1.367(d)-1T (d) through (f); and


(C) The name, address, and identifying number of each person that under the rules of § 1.367(d)-1T (e) or (f) will be considered to receive contingent annual payments for the use of the intangible property.


(e) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1(e).


(f)(1) through (f)(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1(f)(1) through (f)(2).


(f)(4) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(f)(4).


(g) *Effective date.* This section applies to transfers occurring after December 31, 1984. See § 1.6038B-1T(a) through (b)(2), (c) introductory text, and (f) (26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 1998) for transfers occurring prior to July 20, 1998. See § 1.6038B-1 for transfers occurring on or after July 20, 1998.



---

[N] [T.D. 8087, 51 FR 17957, May 16, 1986, as amended by T.D. 8682, 61 FR 42177, Aug. 14, 1996; T.D. 8770, 63 FR 33570, June 19, 1998; T.D. 8834, 64 FR 43083, Aug. 9, 1999; T.D. 9100, 68 FR 70708, Dec. 19, 2003; 69 FR 5017, Feb. 3, 2004; T.D. 9243, 71 FR 4294, Jan. 26, 2006; T.D. 9300, 71 FR 71045, Dec. 8, 2006; T.D. 9615, 78 FR 17064, Mar. 19, 2013; T.D. 9760, 81 FR 15169, Mar. 22, 2016; T.D. 9803, 81 FR 91032, Dec. 16, 2016; T.D. 9994, 89 FR 82170, Oct. 10, 2024]






