# § 457.430   Benchmark-equivalent health benefits coverage.

(a) *Aggregate actuarial value.* Benchmark-equivalent coverage is health benefits coverage that has an aggregate actuarial value determined in accordance with § 457.431 that is at least actuarially equivalent to the coverage under one of the benchmark packages specified in § 457.420. 


(b) *Required coverage.* In addition to the coverage required under § 457.410(b), benchmark-equivalent health benefits coverage must include coverage for the following categories of services: 


(1) Inpatient and outpatient hospital services. 


(2) Physicians' surgical and medical services. 


(3) Laboratory and x-ray services. 


(c) *Additional coverage.* (1) In addition to the categories of services in paragraph (b) of this section, benchmark-equivalent coverage may include coverage for any additional services specified in § 457.402. 


(2) If the benchmark coverage package used by the State for purposes of comparison in establishing the aggregate actuarial value of the benchmark-equivalent coverage package includes coverage for prescription drugs, mental health services, vision services or hearing services, then the actuarial value of the coverage for each of these categories of service in the benchmark-equivalent coverage package must be at least 75 percent of the value of the coverage for such a category or service in the benchmark plan used for comparison by the State. 


(3) If the benchmark coverage package does not cover one of the categories of services in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, then the benchmark-equivalent coverage package may, but is not required to, include coverage for that category of service. 




