# § 11.73   Allowable claims.

(a) A claim may be allowed only if: (1) The damage or loss was not caused wholly or partly by the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant, his/her agent, the members of his/her family, or his/her private employee (the standard to be applied is that of reasonable care under the circumstances); and (2) the possession of the property lost or damaged and the quantity possessed is determined to have been reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances; and (3) the claim is substantiated by proper and convincing evidence.


(b) Claims which are otherwise allowable under this subpart shall not be disallowed solely because the property was not in the possession of the claimant at the time of the damage or loss, or solely because the claimant was not the legal owner of the property for which the claim is made. For example, borrowed property may be the subject of a claim.


(c) Subject to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, and the other provisions of this subpart, any claim for damage to, or loss of, personal property incident to service with FEMA may be considered and allowed. The following are examples of the principal types of claims which may be allowed, unless excluded by § 11.74.


(1) *Property loss or damage in quarters or other authorized places.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property arising from fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft, or other unusual occurrence, while such property is located at:


(i) Quarters within the 50 states or the District of Columbia that were assigned to the claimant or otherwise provided in-kind by the United States; or


(ii) Any warehouse, office, working area, or other place (except quarters) authorized for the reception or storage of property.


(2) *Transportation or travel losses.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property incident to transportation or storage pursuant to orders, or in connection with travel under orders, including property in the custody of a carrier, an agent or agency of the Government, or the claimant.


(3) *Motor vehicles.* Claims may be allowed for automobiles and other motor vehicles damaged or lost by overseas shipments provided by the Government. “Shipments provided by the Government” means via Government vessels, charter of commercial vessels, or by Government bills of lading on commercial vessels, and includes storage, unloading, and offloading incident thereto. Other claims for damage to or loss of automobiles and other major vehicles may be allowed when use of the vehicles on a nonreimbursable basis was required by the claimant's supervisor, but these claims shall be limited to a maximum of $1,000.00.


(4) *Mobile homes.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of mobile homes and their content under the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Claims for structural damage to mobile homes resulting from such structural damage must contain conclusive evidence that the damage was not caused by structural deficiency of the mobile home and that it was not overloaded. Claims for damage to or loss of tires mounted on mobile homes may be allowed only in cases of collision, theft, or vandalism.


(5) *Money.* Claims for money in an amount that is determined to be reasonable for the claimant to possess at the time of the loss are payable:


(i) Where personal funds were accepted by responsible Government personnel with apparent authority to receive them for safekeeping, deposit, transmittal, or other authorized disposition, but were neither applied as directed by the owner nor returned;


(ii) When lost incident to a marine or aircraft disaster;


(iii) When lost by fire, flood, hurricane, or other natural disaster;


(iv) When stolen from the quarters of the claimant where it is conclusively shown that the money was in a locked container and that the quarters themselves were locked. Exceptions to the foregoing “double lock” rule are permitted when the adjudicating authority determines that the theft loss was not caused wholly or partly by the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant, their agent, or their employee. The adjudicating authority should use the test of whether the claimant did their best under the circumstances to protect the property; or


(v) When taken by force from the claimant's person.


(6) *Clothing.* Claims may be allowed for clothing and accessories customarily worn on the person which are damaged or lost:


(i) During the performance of official duties in an unusual or extraordinary-risk situation;


(ii) In cases involving emergency action required by natural disaster such as fire, flood, hurricane, or by enemy or other belligerent action;


(iii) In cases involving faulty equipment or defective furniture maintained by the Government and used by the claimant required by the job situation; or


(iv) When using a motor vehicle.


(7) *Property used for benefit of the Government.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of property (except motor vehicles, see §§ 11.73(c)(3) and 11.74(b)(13)) used for the benefit of the Government at the request of, or with the knowledge and consent of, superior authority or by reason of necessity.


(8) *Enemy action or public service.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of property as a direct consequence of:


(i) Enemy action or threat thereof, or combat, guerrilla, brigandage, or other belligerent activity, or unjust confiscation by a foreign power or its nation:


(ii) Action by the claimant to quiet a civil disturbance or to alleviate a public disaster; or


(iii) Efforts by the claimant to save human life or Government property.


(9) *Marine or aircraft disaster.* Claims may be allowed for personal property damaged or lost as a result of marine or aircraft disaster or accident.


(10) *Government property.* Claims may be allowed for property owned by the United States only when the claimant is financially responsible to an agency of the Government other than FEMA.


(11) *Borrowed property.* Claims may be allowed for borrowed property that has been damaged or lost.


(12)(i) A claim against the Government may be made for not more than $40,000 by an officer or employee of the agency for damage to, or loss of, personal property in a foreign country that was incurred incident to service, and—


(A) The officer, or employee was evacuated from the country on a recommendation or order of the Secretary of State or other competent authority that was made in responding to an incident of political unrest or hostile act by people in that country; and the damage or loss resulted from the evacuation, incident, or hostile act; or


(B) The damage or loss resulted from a hostile act directed against the Government or its officers, or employees.


(ii) On paying the claim under this section, the Government is subrogated for the amount of the payment to a right or claim that the claimant may have against the foreign country for the damage or loss for which the Government made the payment.


(iii) Amounts may be obligated or expended for claims under this section only to the extent provided in advance in appropriation laws.




