# § 761.207   The manifest—general requirements.

(a) A generator who transports, or offers for transport, PCB waste for commercial off-site storage or off-site disposal, and a commercial storage or disposal facility who offers for transport a rejected load of PCB waste, must prepare a manifest on EPA Form 8700-22 and, if necessary, a continuation sheet. The generator shall specify:


(1) For each bulk load of PCBs, the identity of the PCB waste, the earliest date of removal from service for disposal, and the weight in kilograms of the PCB waste. (Item 14—Special Handling Instructions box)


(2) For each PCB transformer, the serial number if available, or other identification if there is no serial number; the date of removal from service for disposal; and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste in each PCB transformer. (Item 14—Special Handling Instructions box)


(3) For each PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitor, the serial number if available, or other identification if there is no serial number; the date of removal from service for disposal; and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste in each PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitor. (Item 14—Special Handling Instructions box)


(4) For each PCB Article Container, the unique identifying number, type of PCB waste (e.g., small capacitors), earliest date of removal from service for disposal, and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste contained therein. (Item 14—Special Handling Instructions box)


(5) For each PCB Container, the unique identifying number, type of PCB waste (e.g., soil, debris, small capacitors), earliest date of removal from service for disposal, and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste contained therein. (Item 14—Special Handling Instructions box)


(6) For each Other item, the type of PCB waste (e.g., small capacitors, circuit breakers, PCB-Contaminated transformers, pipeline), earliest date of removal from service for disposal, and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste.


(b) A generator must designate on the manifest one facility which is approved to handle the PCB waste described on the manifest.


(c) A generator may also designate on the manifest one alternate facility which is approved to handle their PCB waste in the event an emergency prevents delivery of the waste to the primary designated facility.


(d) If the transporter is unable to deliver the PCB waste to the designated facility or the alternate facility, the generator must either designate another facility or instruct the transporter to return the PCB waste.


(e) The requirements of this section apply only to PCB wastes as defined in § 761.3. This includes PCB wastes with PCB concentrations below 50 ppm where the PCB concentration below 50 ppm was the result of dilution; these PCB wastes are required under § 761.1(b) to be managed as if they contained PCB concentrations of 50 ppm and above. An example of such a PCB waste is spill cleanup material containing <50 ppm PCBs when the spill involved material containing PCBs at a concentration of ≥50 ppm. However, there is no manifest requirement for material currently below 50 ppm which derives from pre-April 18, 1978, spills of any concentration, pre-July 2, 1979, spills of <500 ppm PCBs, or materials decontaminated in accordance with § 761.79.


(f) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to the transport of PCB wastes on a public or private right-of-way within or along the border of contiguous property under the control of the same person, even if such contiguous property is divided by a public or private right-of-way.


(g)(1) *Electronic manifest.* A person required to prepare a manifest under this section may prepare and use an electronic manifest, provided that the person:


(i) Complies with the requirements in § 262.24 of this chapter for use of electronic manifests; and


(ii) Complies with the requirements of 40 CFR 3.10 for the reporting of electronic documents to the EPA.


(2) *Legal equivalence to paper manifests.* Electronic manifests that are obtained, completed, and transmitted in accordance with § 262.20(a)(3) of this chapter, and used in accordance with §§ 262.20, 262.24, and 262.25 of this chapter in lieu of EPA Forms 8700-22 and 8700-22A, are the legal equivalent of paper manifest forms bearing handwritten signatures, and satisfy for all purposes any requirement in subpart K of this part to obtain, complete, sign, provide, use, or retain a manifest.


(i) Any requirement in subpart K of this part to sign a manifest or manifest certification by hand, or to obtain a handwritten signature, is satisfied by signing with or obtaining a valid and enforceable electronic signature within the meaning of § 262.25 of this chapter.


(ii) Any requirement in subpart K of this part to give, provide, send, forward, or return to another person a copy of the manifest is satisfied when an electronic manifest is transmitted to the other person by submission to the EPA e-Manifest system.


(iii) Any requirement in subpart K of this part for a generator to keep or retain a copy of each manifest is satisfied by retention of a signed electronic manifest in the generator's account on the EPA e-Manifest system, provided that such copies are readily available for viewing and production if requested by any the EPA or authorized State inspector.


(iv) No generator may be held liable for the inability to produce an electronic manifest for inspection under this section if the generator can demonstrate that the inability to produce the electronic manifest is due exclusively to a technical difficulty with the e-Manifest system for which the generator bears no responsibility.


(v) After facilities have certified that the manifest is complete, by signing it at the time of submission to the EPA e-Manifest system, any post-receipt data corrections may be submitted at any time by any interested person (*e.g.,* waste handler) named on the manifest. If corrections are requested by the Director for portions of the manifest that a generator, transporter, or a commercial storage or disposal facility is required to complete, those PCB waste handlers must address the data correction within 30 days from the date of the request. Data corrections must be made electronically via the post-receipt data corrections process described in § 265.71(l) of this chapter, which applies to corrections made to either paper or electronic manifests. Generators who are not registered with the EPA e-Manifest system must arrange with interested persons shown on the manifest to electronically submit manifest data corrections on their behalf within 30 days of the date of the correction request.





---

[N] [77 FR 54830, Sept. 6, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37995, July 2, 2015; 88 FR 59694, Aug. 29, 2023; 89 FR 60737, July 26, 2024]




