# § 10.101   Immediate delivery.

(a) *Shipments entitled to immediate delivery.* Shipments consigned to or for the account of any agency or office of the United States Government, or to an officer or official of any such agency in his official capacity, shall be regarded for purposes of these regulations as shipments the immediate delivery of which is necessary within the purview of section 448(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1448(b)).


(b) *Immediate delivery applications.* The shipments described in the preceding paragraph may be released upon the filing of immediate delivery applications on Customs Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, as set forth in subpart A of part 142 of this chapter. Such applications may be limited to particular shipments or may cover all shipments imported by the Government agency making the application. They may be approved for specific periods of time or for indefinite periods of time, provided in either case they are supported by carrier's certificates and stipulations as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Carrier's certificates and stipulations.* Before the release of a shipment under an immediate delivery permit, evidence of the right of the applicant to make entry for the articles shall be furnished the port director in accordance with the provisions of §§ 141.11 and 141.12 of this chapter.


(d) *Bond.* No bond shall be required in support of an immediate delivery application provided for in this section if a stipulation in the form as set forth below is filed with the port director in connection with the application:


(e) *Timely entries required.* If proper entries for consumption for importations released under these regulations are not filed within a reasonable time, appropriate steps shall be taken to insure the prompt filing of such entries.



---

[N] [T.D. 77-23, 42 FR 2310, Jan. 11, 1977, as amended by T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20067, May 29, 1987; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61284, Oct. 13, 2015]




