# ยง 170.122   Providing specific information about applications.

When workers are on an agricultural establishment and, within the last 30 days, a pesticide covered by this subpart has been applied on the establishment or a restricted-entry interval has been in effect, the agricultural employer shall display, in accordance with this section, specific information about the pesticide.


(a) *Location, accessibility, and legibility.* The information shall be displayed in the location specified for the pesticide safety poster in ยง 170.135(d) and shall be accessible and legible, as specified in ยง 170.135 (e) and (f).


(b) *Timing.* (1) If warning signs are posted for the treated area before an application, the specific application information for that application shall be posted at the same time or earlier.


(2) The information shall be posted before the application takes place, if workers will be on the establishment during application. Otherwise, the information shall be posted at the beginning of any worker's first work period.


(3) The information shall continue to be displayed for at least 30 days after the end of the restricted-entry interval (or, if there is no restricted-entry interval, for at least 30 days after the end of the application) or at least until workers are no longer on the establishment, whichever is earlier.


(c) *Required information.* The information shall include:


(1) The location and description of the treated area.


(2) The product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s) of the pesticide.


(3) The time and date the pesticide is to be applied.


(4) The restricted-entry interval for the pesticide.




