# ยง 485.725   Condition of participation: Infection control.

The organization that provides outpatient physical therapy services establishes an infection-control committee of representative professional staff with responsibility for overall infection control. All necessary housekeeping and maintenance services are provided to maintain a sanitary and comfortable environment and to help prevent the development and transmission of infection. 


(a) *Standard: Infection-control committee.* The infection-control committee establishes policies and procedures for investigating, controlling, and preventing infections in the organization and monitors staff performance to ensure that the policies and procedures are executed. 


(b) All personnel follow written procedures for effective aseptic techniques. The procedures are reviewed annually and revised if necessary to improve them. 


(c) *Standard: Housekeeping.* (1) The organization employs sufficient housekeeping personnel and provides all necessary equipment to maintain a safe, clean, and orderly interior. A full-time employee is designated as the one responsible for the housekeeping services and for supervision and training of housekeeping personnel.


(2) An organization that has a contract with an outside resource for housekeeping services may be found to be in compliance with this standard provided the organization or outside resource or both meet the requirements of the standard. 


(d) *Standard: Linen.* The organization has available at all times a quantity of linen essential for proper care and comfort of patients. Linens are handled, stored, processed, and transported in such a manner as to prevent the spread of infection. 


(e) *Standard: Pest control.* The organization's premises are maintained free from insects and rodents through operation of a pest-control program. 



---

[N] [41 FR 20865, May 21, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 52826, Sept. 30, 1977. Further redesignated and amended at 60 FR 2326, 2328, Jan. 9, 1995; 60 FR 50447, Sept. 29, 1995; 86 FR 61623, Nov. 5, 2021; 88 FR 36510, June 5, 2023]




