# § 1150.2   Applicability: Buildings and facilities subject to guidelines and standards.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section, the term:


*Constructed or altered on behalf of the United States* means acquired by the United States through lease-purchase arrangement, constructed or altered for purchase by the United States, or constructed or altered for the use of the United States.


*Primarily for use by able-bodied military personnel* means expected to be occupied, used, or visited principally by military service personnel. Examples of buildings so intended are barracks, officers' quarters, and closed messes.


*Privately owned residential structure* means a single or multi-family dwelling not owned by a unit or subunit of Federal, state, or local government.


(b) *Buildings and facilities covered.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the standards issued under the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, Pub. L. 90-480, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4151 *et seq.* (including standards of the United States Postal Service) apply to any building or facility—


(1) The intended use for which either—


(i) Will require that such building or facility be accessible to the public, or


(ii) May result in employment or residence therein of physically handicapped persons; and


(2) Which is—


(i) To be constructed or altered by or on behalf of the United States;


(ii) To be leased in whole or in part by the United States—


(A) After August 12, 1968, and before January 1, 1977, after construction or alteration in accordance with plans and specifications of the United States; or


(B) On or after January 1, 1977, including any renewal of a lease entered into before January 1, 1977, which renewal is on or after such date;


(iii) To be financed in whole or in part by a grant or loan made by the United States after August 12, 1968, if the building or facility may be subject to standards for design, construction, or alteration issued under the law authorizing the grant or loan; or


(iv) To be constructed under the authority of the National Capital Transportation Act of 1960, the National Capital Transportation Act of 1965, or title III of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Regulation Compact.


(c) *Buildings and facilities not covered.* The standards do not apply to—


(1) Any privately owned residential structure, unless it is leased by the Federal government on or after January 1, 1977, for subsidized housing programs; or


(2) Any building or facility on a military installation designed and constructed primarily for use by military personnel.


(d) Any covered building or facility, as provided in this section, which is designed, constructed, or altered after the effective date of a standard issued which is applicable to the building or facility, shall be designed, constructed, altered, or leased in accordance with the standard. For purposes of this section, any design, construction, alteration or lease for which bids or offers are received before the effective date of an applicable standard, in response to an invitation for bids or request for proposals, is not subject to that standard.




