# § 516.32   Requests for indemnification.

(a) *Policy.* An individual liable for a judgment rendered against him in his individual capacity has no right to reimbursement from DA. DA will consider, however, a request for indemnification from DA personnel where conduct within the scope of official duties has resulted in personal liability and indemnification is in the best interests of the United States. Indemnification is strictly contingent upon an appropriation to pay the judgment, as well as availability of such funds. 


(b) *Individual request procedures.* An individual against whom an adverse judgment has been rendered may request indemnification. The request must include, at a minimum, the following: how the employee was acting within the scope of his employment; whether the requestor has insurance or any other source of indemnification; and, how reimbursement is in the best interests of the United States. The request must also contain the following statements: “I understand that acceptance of this request for indemnification for processing by DA does not constitute an acceptance of any obligation to make such a payment. I also understand that payment is contingent on availability of funds and that it will only be made if such is determined to be in the best interests of the United States.” The individual should attach a copy of relevant documents, for example, court's opinion, judgment, and other allied papers. 


(c) *Supervisory and SJA procedures.* The request for indemnification will be submitted through supervisory channels to the local SJA or legal adviser. Each supervisor will make a recommendation on the propriety of reimbursement. 


(d) *Chief, Litigation Division, procedures.* Requests for indemnification will be forwarded to Chief, Litigation Division. The Chief, Litigation Division, will examine the submission and, after consultation with DOJ or other agencies, forward the packet with his recommendation to the Army General Counsel. The General Counsel will obtain a final decision by the Secretary of the Army or his designee on the matter. There is no administrative appeal of the Secretary's (or his designee's) decision. 




