# § 1303.50   Responses to requests.

(a) *Acknowledgments of requests.* OMB will assign an individualized tracking number to each request received that will take longer than ten days to process; and acknowledge each request, informing the requester of their tracking number if applicable; and, upon request, make available information about the status of a request to the requester using the assigned tracking number, including—


(1) The date on which OMB originally received the request; and


(2) An estimated date on which OMB will complete action on the request.


(b) *Grants of requests.* Once OMB makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it will notify the requester in writing. OMB also will inform the requester of any fees charged under § 1303.9 and shall provide the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. OMB will inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.




(c) *Adverse determinations of requests.* Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing. In the case of an adverse determination, the FOIA Officer will immediately notify the requester of—


(1) The right of the requester to appeal to the head of OMB within 90 calendar days after the date of such adverse determination in accordance with § 1303.70;


(2) The right of such person to seek dispute resolution services from the FOIA Public Liaison or the OGIS at NARA;


(3) The names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial of such request; and


(4) OMB's estimate of the volume of any requested records OMB is withholding, unless providing such estimate would harm an interest protected by the exemption in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) under which the withholding is being made.



---

[N] [84 FR 22951, May 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 48825, June 10, 2024]








