# § 560.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the term—


*Administrative Officer* means the Administrative Officer of the Marine Mammal Commission.


*Commission* means the Marine Mammal Commission, a collegial body established under 16 U.S.C. 1401 that functions as a unit and is composed of three individual members, each of whom is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.


*Commissioner* means an individual who is a member of the Marine Mammal Commission.


*Executive Director* means the Executive Director of the Marine Mammal Commission.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Marine Mammal Commission.


*Meeting* means the deliberations of at least a majority of the members of the Commission where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Commission business, but does not include an individual Commissioner's consideration of official Commission business circulated in writing for disposition either by notation or by separate, sequential consideration, and deliberations on whether to:


(1) Hold a meeting with less than 7 days notice, as provided in § 560.4(d) of this part;


(2) Change the subject matter of a publicly announced meeting or the determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting or portions thereof to public observation, as provided in § 560.4(e) of this part;


(3) Change the time or place of an announced meeting, as provided in § 560.4(f) of this part;


(4) Close a meeting or portions of a meeting, as provided in § 560.5 of this part; or


(5) Withhold from disclosure information pertaining to a meeting or portions of a meeting, as provided in § 560.5 of this part.


*Public observation* means attendance by one or more members of the public at a meeting of the Commission, but does not include participation in the meeting.


*Public participation* means the presentation or discussion of information, raising of questions, or other manner of involvement in a meeting of the Commission by one or more members of the public in a manner that contributes to the disposition of Commission business.




