# § 422.103   Benefits under an MA MSA plan.

(a) *General rule.* An MA organization offering an MA MSA plan must make available to an enrollee, or provide reimbursement for, at least the services described in § 422.101 after the enrollee incurs countable expenses equal to the amount of the plan's annual deductible.


(b) *Countable expenses.* An MA organization offering an MA MSA plan must count toward the annual deductible at least all amounts that would be paid for the particular service under original Medicare, including amounts that would be paid by the enrollee as deductibles or coinsurance.


(c) *Services after the deductible.* For services received by the enrollee after the annual deductible is satisfied, an MA organization offering an MA MSA plan must pay, at a minimum, the lesser of the following amounts:


(1) 100 percent of the expense of the services.


(2) 100 percent of the amounts that would have been paid for the services under original Medicare, including amounts that would be paid by the enrollee as deductibles and coinsurance.


(d) *Annual deductible.* The annual deductible for an MA MSA plan—


(1) For contract year 1999, may not exceed $6,000; and


(2) For subsequent contract years may not exceed the deductible for the preceding contract year, increased by the national per capita growth percentage determined under § 422.306(a)(2).


(3) Is pro-rated for enrollments occurring during a beneficiary's initial coverage election period as described at § 422.62(a)(1) of this part or during any other enrollments occurring after January 1.


(e) All MA organizations offering MSA plans must provide enrollees with available information on the cost and quality of services in their service area, and submit to CMS for approval a proposed approach to providing such information.



---

[N] [63 FR 35077, June 26, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 4720, Jan. 28, 2005; 70 FR 52026, Sept. 1, 2005; 74 FR 1541, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19805, Apr. 15, 2010]




