# ยง 3106.43   Mass transfers.

(a) A mass transfer may be utilized in lieu of the provisions of 43 CFR 3106.41 and 3106.42 when an assignor or transferor transfers interests of any type in more than one Federal lease to the same assignee or transferee.


(b) The mass transfer must be filed with each proper BLM office administering any lease affected by the mass transfer. The transfer must be on a current form approved by the Director with an exhibit attached to each copy listing the following for each lease:


(1) The serial number;


(2) The type and percent of interest being conveyed; and


(3) A description of the lands affected by the transfer in accordance with 43 CFR 3106.50.


(c)(1) One duplicate copy of the form must be filed with the proper BLM office for each lease involved in the mass transfer. A copy of the exhibit for each lease may be limited to line items pertaining to individual leases as long as that line item includes the information required by paragraph (b) of this section. The BLM does not require a duplicate copy of the assignment or transfer when it is electronically submitted.


(2) When the BLM does not receive the requisite number of copies, the applicant must reimburse the BLM for the full costs incurred to make the required number of copies. The BLM will waive fees under one dollar.


(d) A mass transfer must include the processing fee for assignments and transfers found in the fee schedule in ยง 3000.120 of this chapter for each such interest transferred for each lease.






