# § 265.1084   Waste determination procedures.

(a) Waste determination procedure to determine average volatile organic (VO) concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination. 


(1) An owner or operator shall determine the average VO concentration at the point of waste origination for each hazardous waste placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 265.1083(c)(1) of this subpart from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in § 265.1085 through § 265.1088 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit. 


(i) An initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made before the first time any portion of the material in the hazardous waste stream is placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 265.1083(c)(1) of this subpart from using air emission controls, and thereafter an initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made for each averaging period that a hazardous waste is managed in the unit; and


(ii) Perform a new waste determination whenever changes to the source generating the waste stream are reasonably likely to cause the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the VO concentration limit specified in § 265.1083(c)(1) of this subpart.


(2) For a waste determination that is required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination shall be determined using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by knowledge as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(3) Direct measurement to determine average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination. 


(i) Identification. The owner or operator shall identify and record the point of waste origination for the hazardous waste. 


(ii) Sampling. Samples of the hazardous waste stream shall be collected at the point of waste origination in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the waste and in the subsequent sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method. 


(A) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous waste stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the owner or operator determines is appropriate for the hazardous waste stream but shall not exceed 1 year. 


(B) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected and analyzed for a hazardous waste determination. All of the samples for a given waste determination shall be collected within a one-hour period. The average of the four or more sample results constitutes a waste determination for the waste stream. One or more waste determinations may be required to represent the complete range of waste compositions and quantities that occur during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous waste stream. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in waste quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.


(C) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous waste stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process, and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the facility operating records. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures for a total volatile organic constituent concentration may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(D) Sufficient information, as specified in the “site sampling plan” required under paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, shall be prepared and recorded to document the waste quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous waste represented by the samples.


(iii) *Analysis.* Each collected sample shall be prepared and analyzed in accordance with Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A for the total concentration of volatile organic constituents, or using one or more methods when the individual organic compound concentrations are identified and summed and the summed waste concentration accounts for and reflects all organic compounds in the waste with Henry's law constant values at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in-the-liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10_−6_ atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3] at 25 degrees Celsius. At the owner or operator's discretion, the owner or operator may adjust test data obtained by any appropriate method to discount any contribution to the total volatile organic concentration that is a result of including a compound with a Henry's law constant value of less than 0.1 Y/X at 25 degrees Celsius. To adjust these data, the measured concentration of each individual chemical constituent contained in the waste is multiplied by the appropriate constituent-specific adjustment factor (f_m25D_). If the owner or operator elects to adjust test data, the adjustment must be made to all individual chemical constituents with a Henry's law constant value greater than or equal to 0.1 Y/X at 25 degrees Celsius contained in the waste. Constituent-specific adjustment factors (f_m25D_) can be obtained by contacting the Waste and Chemical Processes Group, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Other test methods may be used if they meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section and provided the requirement to reflect all organic compounds in the waste with Henry's law constant values greater than or equal to 0.1 Y/X [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10_−6_ atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3] at 25 degrees Celsius, is met.


(A) Any EPA standard method that has been validated in accordance with “Alternative Validation Procedure for EPA Waste and Wastewater Methods,” 40 CFR part 63, appendix D.


(B) Any other analysis method that has been validated in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 5.1 or Section 5.3, and the corresponding calculations in Section 6.1 or Section 6.3, of Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. The data are acceptable if they meet the criteria specified in Section 6.1.5 or Section 6.3.3 of Method 301. If correction is required under section 6.3.3 of Method 301, the data are acceptable if the correction factor is within the range 0.7 to 1.30. Other sections of Method 301 are not required.


(iv) Calculations. 


(A) The average VO concentration (C
) on a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all waste determinations conducted in accordance with paragraphs (a)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this section and the following equation: 


(B) For the purpose of determining C_i_, for individual waste samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall account for VO concentrations determined to be below the limit of detection of the analytical method by using the following VO concentration: 


(*1*) If Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used for the analysis, one-half the blank value determined in the method at section 4.4 of Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. 


(*2*) If any other analytical method is used, one-half the sum of the limits of detection established for each organic constituent in the waste that has a Henry's law constant values at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in-the-liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10_−6_ atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3] at 25 degrees Celsius. 


(v) Provided that the test method is appropriate for the waste as required under paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the EPA will determine compliance based on the test method used by the owner or operator as recorded pursuant to § 265.1090(f)(1) of this subpart. 


(4) Use of owner or operator knowledge to determine average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination. 


(i) Documentation shall be prepared that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge of the hazardous waste stream's average VO concentration. Examples of information that may be used as the basis for knowledge include: Material balances for the source or process generating the hazardous waste stream; constituent-specific chemical test data for the hazardous waste stream from previous testing that are still applicable to the current waste stream; previous test data for other locations managing the same type of waste stream; or other knowledge based on information included in manifests, shipping papers, or waste certification notices. 


(ii) If test data are used as the basis for knowledge, then the owner or operator shall document the test method, sampling protocol, and the means by which sampling variability and analytical variability are accounted for in the determination of the average VO concentration. For example, an owner or operator may use organic concentration test data for the hazardous waste stream that are validated in accordance with Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A as the basis for knowledge of the waste. 


(iii) An owner or operator using chemical constituent-specific concentration test data as the basis for knowledge of the hazardous waste may adjust the test data to the corresponding average VO concentration value which would have been obtained had the waste samples been analyzed using Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual chemical constituent contained in the waste is multiplied by the appropriate constituent-specific adjustment factor (f_m25D_). 


(iv) In the event that the Regional Administrator and the owner or operator disagree on a determination of the average VO concentration for a hazardous waste stream using knowledge, then the results from a determination of average VO concentration using direct measurement as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. The Regional Administrator may perform or request that the owner or operator perform this determination using direct measurement. The owner or operator may choose one or more appropriate methods to analyze each collected sample in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section. 


(b) Waste determination procedures for treated hazardous waste. 


(1) An owner or operator shall perform the applicable waste determination for each treated hazardous waste placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 265.1083 (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this subpart from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in §§ 265.1085 through 265.1088 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit. 


(i) An initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made before the first time any portion of the material in the treated waste stream is placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 265.1083(c)(2), § 265.1083(c)(3), or § 265.1083(c)(4) of this subpart from using air emission controls, and thereafter update the information used for the waste determination at least once every 12 months following the date of the initial waste determination; and


(ii) Perform a new waste determination whenever changes to the process generating or treating the waste stream are reasonably likely to cause the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste to increase to a level such that the applicable treatment conditions specified in § 265.1083(c)(2), § 265.1083(c)(3), or § 265.1083(c)(4) of this subpart are not achieved.


(2) The owner or operator shall designate and record the specific provision in § 265.1083(c)(2) of this subpart under which the waste determination is being performed. The waste determination for the treated hazardous waste shall be performed using the applicable procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(9) of this section. 


(3) Procedure to determine the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment. 


(i) Identification. The owner or operator shall identify and record the point of waste treatment for the hazardous waste. 


(ii) Sampling. Samples of the hazardous waste stream shall be collected at the point of waste treatment in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the waste and in the subsequent sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method. 


(A) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous waste stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the owner or operator determines is appropriate for the hazardous waste stream but shall not exceed 1 year. 


(B) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected and analyzed for a hazardous waste determination. All of the samples for a given waste determination shall be collected within a one-hour period. The average of the four or more sample results constitutes a waste determination for the waste stream. One or more waste determinations may be required to represent the complete range of waste compositions and quantities that occur during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the process generating or treating the hazardous waste stream. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in waste quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.


(C) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous waste stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process, and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the facility operating records. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures for a total volatile organic constituent concentration may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(D) Sufficient information, as specified in the “site sampling plan” required under paragraph (C) of (b)(3)(ii)this section, § 265.1084(b)(3)(ii), shall be prepared and recorded to document the waste quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the process treating the hazardous waste represented by the samples.


(iii) *Analysis.* Each collected sample shall be prepared and analyzed in accordance with Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A for the total concentration of volatile organic constituents, or using one or more methods when the individual organic compound concentrations are identified and summed and the summed waste concentration accounts for and reflects all organic compounds in the waste with Henry's law constant values at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in-the-liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10_−6_ atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3] at 25 degrees Celsius. When the owner or operator is making a waste determination for a treated hazardous waste that is to be compared to an average VO concentration at the point of waste origination or the point of waste entry to the treatment system to determine if the conditions of § 264.1082(c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this chapter, or § 265.1083(c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this subpart are met, then the waste samples shall be prepared and analyzed using the same method or methods as were used in making the initial waste determinations at the point of waste origination or at the point of entry to the treatment system. At the owner or operator's discretion, the owner or operator may adjust test data obtained by any appropriate method to discount any contribution to the total volatile organic concentration that is a result of including a compound with a Henry's law constant value less than 0.1 Y/X at 25 degrees Celsius. To adjust these data, the measured concentration of each individual chemical constituent in the waste is multiplied by the appropriate constituent-specific adjustment factor (f_m25D_). If the owner or operator elects to adjust test data, the adjustment must be made to all individual chemical constituents with a Henry's law constant value greater than or equal to 0.1 Y/X at 25 degrees Celsius contained in the waste. Constituent-specific adjustment factors (f_m25D_) can be obtained by contacting the Waste and Chemical Processes Group, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Other test methods may be used if they meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section and provided the requirement to reflect all organic compounds in the waste with Henry's law constant values greater than or equal to 0.1 Y/X [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10_−6_ atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3] at 25 degrees Celsius, is met.


(A) Any EPA standard method that has been validated in accordance with “Alternative Validation Procedure for EPA Waste and Wastewater Methods,” 40 CFR part 63, appendix D.


(B) Any other analysis method that has been validated in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 5.1 or Section 5.3, and the corresponding calculations in Section 6.1 or Section 6.3, of Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. The data are acceptable if they meet the criteria specified in Section 6.1.5 or Section 6.3.3 of Method 301. If correction is required under section 6.3.3 of Method 301, the data are acceptable if the correction factor is within the range 0.7 to 1.30. Other sections of Method 301 are not required.


(iv) *Calculations.* The average VO concentration (C
) on a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all waste determinations conducted in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section and the following equation: 


(v) Provided that the test method is appropriate for the waste as required under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, compliance shall be determined based on the test method used by the owner or operator as recorded pursuant to § 265.1090(f)(1) of this subpart. 


(4) Procedure to determine the exit concentration limit (C_t_) for a treated hazardous waste. 


(i) The point of waste origination for each hazardous waste treated by the process at the same time shall be identified. 


(ii) If a single hazardous waste stream is identified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, then the exit concentration limit (C_t_) shall be 500 ppmw. 


(iii) If more than one hazardous waste stream is identified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, then the average VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The exit concentration limit (C_t_) shall be calculated by using the results determined for each individual hazardous waste stream and the following equation:


(5) Procedure to determine the organic reduction efficiency (R) for a treated hazardous waste. 


(i) The organic reduction efficiency (R) for a treatment process shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. 


(ii) All hazardous waste streams entering the treatment process and all hazardous waste streams exiting the treatment process shall be identified. The owner or operator shall prepare a sampling plan for measuring these streams that accurately reflects the retention time of the hazardous waste in the process. 


(iii) For each run, information shall be determined for each hazardous waste stream identified in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section using the following procedures: 


(A) The mass quantity of each hazardous waste stream entering the process (Q_b_) and the mass quantity of each hazardous waste stream exiting the process (Q_a_) shall be determined. 


(B) The average VO concentration at the point of waste origination of each hazardous waste stream entering the process (C
_b_) during the run shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The average VO concentration at the point of waste treatment of each waste stream exiting the process (C
_a_) during the run shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(iv) The waste volatile organic mass flow entering the process (E_b_) and the waste volatile organic mass flow exiting the process (E_a_) shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section and the following equations: 


(v) The organic reduction efficiency of the process shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section and the following equation: 


(6) Procedure to determine the organic biodegradation efficiency (R_bio_) for a treated hazardous waste. 


(i) The fraction of organics biodegraded (F_bio_) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C of this chapter. 


(ii) The R_bio_ shall be calculated by using the following equation: 


(7) Procedure to determine the required organic mass removal rate (RMR) for a treated hazardous waste. 


(i) All of the hazardous waste streams entering the treatment process shall be identified. 


(ii) The average VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. 


(iii) For each individual hazardous waste stream that has an average VO concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point of waste origination, the average volumetric flow rate and the density of the hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined. 


(iv) The RMR shall be calculated by using the average VO concentration, average volumetric flow rate, and density determined for each individual hazardous waste stream, and the following equation:


(8) Procedure to determine the actual organic mass removal rate (MR) for a treated hazardous waste. 


(i) The MR shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. 


(ii) The waste volatile organic mass flow entering the process (E_b_) and the waste volatile organic mass flow exiting the process (E_a_) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section. 


(iii) The MR shall be calculated by using the mass flow rate determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section and the following equation: 


(9) Procedure to determine the actual organic mass biodegradation rate (MR_bio_) for a treated hazardous waste. 


(i) The MR_bio_ shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour.


(ii) The waste organic mass flow entering the process (E_b_) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section.


(iii) The fraction of organic biodegraded (F_bio_) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C of this chapter. 


(iv) The MR_bio_ shall be calculated by using the mass flow rates and fraction of organic biodegraded determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(9)(ii) and (b)(9)(iii) of this section, respectively, and the following equation: 


(c) Procedure to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous waste in a tank. 


(1) An owner or operator shall determine the maximum organic vapor pressure for each hazardous waste placed in a tank using Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with the standards specified in § 265.1085(c) of this subpart. 


(2) An owner or operator shall use either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or knowledge of the waste as specified by paragraph (c)(4) of this section to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure which is representative of the hazardous waste composition stored or treated in the tank. 


(3) Direct measurement to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous waste. 


(i) Sampling. A sufficient number of samples shall be collected to be representative of the waste contained in the tank. All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous waste are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the facility operating records. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(ii) Analysis. Any appropriate one of the following methods may be used to analyze the samples and compute the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste: 


(A) Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60 appendix A; 


(B) Methods described in American Petroleum Institute Publication 2517, Third Edition, February 1989, “Evaporative Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks,” (incorporated by reference—refer to § 260.11 of this chapter); 


(C) Methods obtained from standard reference texts; 


(D) ASTM Method 2879-92 (incorporated by reference—refer to § 260.11 of this chapter); and


(E) Any other method approved by the Regional Administrator. 


(4) Use of knowledge to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste. Documentation shall be prepared and recorded that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge that the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit listed in § 265.1085(b)(1)(i) of this subpart for the applicable tank design capacity category. An example of information that may be used is documentation that the hazardous waste is generated by a process for which at other locations it previously has been determined by direct measurement that the waste maximum organic vapor pressure is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit for the appropriate tank design capacity category. 


(d) Procedure for determining no detectable organic emissions for the purpose of complying with this subpart: 


(1) The test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Each potential leak interface (i.e., a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the cover and associated closure devices shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with covers and closure devices include, but are not limited to: The interface of the cover and its foundation mounting; the periphery of any opening on the cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure relief valve. 


(2) The test shall be performed when the unit contains a hazardous waste having an organic concentration representative of the range of concentrations for the hazardous waste expected to be managed in the unit. During the test, the cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position. 


(3) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the organic constituents in the hazardous waste placed in the waste management unit, not for each individual organic constituent. 


(4) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. 


(5) Calibration gases shall be as follows: 


(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppmv hydrocarbon in air), and 


(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppmv methane or n-hexane. 


(6) The background level shall be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. 


(7) Each potential leak interface shall be checked by traversing the instrument probe around the potential leak interface as close to the interface as possible, as described in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. In the case when the configuration of the cover or closure device prevents a complete traverse of the interface, all accessible portions of the interface shall be sampled. In the case when the configuration of the closure device prevents any sampling at the interface and the device is equipped with an enclosed extension or horn (e.g., some pressure relief devices), the instrument probe inlet shall be placed at approximately the center of the exhaust area to the atmosphere. 


(8) The arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with the value of 500 ppmv except when monitoring a seal around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, in which case the comparison shall be as specified in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. If the difference is less than 500 ppmv, then the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions. 


(9) For the seals around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with the value of 10,000 ppmw. If the difference is less than 10,000 ppmw, then the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59974, Nov. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 64664, Dec. 8, 1997; 64 FR 3390, Jan. 21, 1999; 70 FR 34586, June 14, 2005]




