# § 70.245   Computation of exempt amount and payment of amounts not exempt from levy to the appropriate TTB officer.

(a) *General.* Unless advised by the appropriate TTB officer that no part of the money due to the taxpayer is exempt from levy, the employer or other person levied upon will compute the exempt amount, using the formula in § 70.243 of this part and the taxpayer's statement of exemptions and filing status described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Statement of exemptions and filing status.* Unless the taxpayer submits a statement of exemptions and filing status to the employer or other person levied upon, the exempt amount will be applied as if the taxpayer were a married individual filing a separate return with only 1 personal exemption. A statement of exemptions and filing status shall be made by either:


(1) Completion of the form provided for this purpose by the Bureau, or


(2) A written statement that:


(i) Gives the taxpayer's filing status for income tax purposes,


(ii) Shows any additional standard deduction if the taxpayer or the taxpayer's spouse is at least 65 and/or blind,


(iii) Identified by name and by relationship to the taxpayer each person for whom a dependent exemption is claimed,


(iv) Is signed by the taxpayer, and


(v) Contains a declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury.


(c) *Time for submission of statement.* The taxpayer must submit the statement of exemptions and filing status to the employer or other person levied upon no later than the later of:


(1) The third day before the last day of the payroll period for which the exemption is claimed (that is, the third day before payday), or


(2) If the appropriate TTB officer delivers the forms for the statement of exemption and filing status to the employer or other person levied upon (see § 70.242(c)(2) of this part), the second day after the date the taxpayer receives the form.


(d) *Payment of amounts not exempt from levy to the appropriate TTB officer*—(1) *In General.* Wages, Salary, or other income the subject of a levy are payable to the appropriate TTB officer on the date the payor is otherwise obligated to pay the taxpayer (*see* § 70.242(c) of this part).


(2) *Delayed payment in certain cases.* If, however, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the taxpayer may submit a statement of exemptions and filing status after the third day before payday, amounts payable to the taxpayer on that payday, to the extent not exempt from levy, are payable to the appropriate TTB officer on the third day following the date on which the taxpayer may timely submit the statement of exemptions and filing status under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For purposes of this rule, the term “day” does not include Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 7503.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-6, 38 FR 32445, Nov. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87951, Nov. 6, 2024]






