# ยง 21.57   Extended evaluation.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of an extended evaluation for a veteran with a serious employment handicap is to determine the current feasibility of the veteran achieving a vocational goal, when this decision reasonably cannot be made on the basis of information developed during the initial evaluation.


(b) *Scope of services.* During the extended evaluation, a veteran may be provided:


(1) Diagnostic and evaluative services;


(2) Services to improve his or her ability to attain a vocational goal;


(3) Services to improve his or her ability to live and function independently in the community; 


(4) An allowance as provided in ยง 21.260.


(c) *Determination.* (1) The determination of the reasonable feasibility of a veteran achieving a vocational goal will be made at the earliest time possible during an extended evaluation, but not later than the end of the period of evaluation, or an extension of that period. Any reasonable doubt as to feasibility will be resolved in the veteran's favor;


(2) When it is reasonably feasible for the veteran to achieve a vocational goal, an individualized written rehabilitation plan (IWRP) will be developed as indicated in ยง 21.84 of this part.


(d) *Responsibility for determining the need for a period of extended evaluation.* A Counseling Psychologist (CP) or Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (VRC) in the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Division shall determine whether a period of extended evaluation is needed.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 50956, Dec. 19, 1988; 54 FR 37332, Sept. 8, 1989; 62 FR 17707, Apr. 11, 1997; 81 FR 26131, May 2, 2016; 87 FR 8742, Feb. 16, 2022]




