# § 62.6357   Missouri Department of Natural Resources.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Missouri plan for control of landfill gas emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills and associated state regulations submitted on January 26, 1998, with amendments on September 8, 2000, February 9, 2012, and July 25, 2022. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which EPA incorporates by reference.


(b) *Identification of sources.* The plan applies to all existing municipal solid waste landfills for which construction, reconstruction, or modification was commenced before May 30, 1991, that accepted waste at any time since November 8, 1987, or that have additional capacity available for future waste deposition, and have design capacities greater than 2.5 million megagrams and nonmethane organic emissions greater than 50 megagrams per year, as described in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc.


(c) *Effective date.* The effective date of the plan for municipal solid waste landfills is June 23, 1998. The amendments are effective January 16, 2001, May 30, 2012, and January 15, 2025, respectively.


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference material is available for inspection at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the EPA Region 7 office, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219; telephone number: (913) 551-7003; email address: *prue.allyson@epa.gov*. You may obtain copies from the EPA Region 7 office or the EPA Docket Center—Public Reading Room, EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004; telephone number: (202) 566-1744. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov*. You may also obtain this material from the source in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) State of Missouri, 600 West Main Street, Jefferson City, Missouri 65101; telephone number: (573) 751-4015; *https://www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/current/10csr/10csr.asp#10-10*.


(i) 10 CSR 10-5.490, Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, effective July 30, 2022.


(ii) 10 CSR 10-6.310, Restriction of Emissions from Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, effective July 30, 2022.



---

[N] [89 FR 101482, Dec. 16, 2024]










