# ยง 760.1706   Fair market value of milk.

(a) The FSA county committee will determine the fair market value of the affected farmer's dumped milk, which, for the purposes of this subpart, will be the sum of the net proceeds such farmer would have received for normal marketings in each of the pay periods in the application period but for the qualifying disaster event.


(b) The base period per cow average daily milk production is determined by dividing the full month of milk marketings by the average number of cows in milk production for that month and the number of days in that month. To determine the milk loss payment, the base period per cow average daily milk production is multiplied by the number of milking cows in production for the claim period and by the number of days milk was removed or dumped in the claim period with the result divided by 100 to determine the applicable hundredweight and then multiplied by the hundredweight pay price.


(c) To determine the hundredweight pay price for milk, the FSA county committee will deduct from the gross pay price from the claim period milk marketing statement the per hundredweight hauling rate for the applicable month and the per hundredweight $0.15 promotion fee which it determines are normally incurred by the affected farmer but which were not incurred because of the removal of the farmer's milk from the commercial market.



---

[N] [84 FR 48534, Sept. 13, 2019. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 62290, Sept. 11, 2023]






