# ยง 14.7   Cost recovery.

(a) The NPS will recover all costs from applicants and permittees pursuant to 54 U.S.C. 103104, according to NPS cost recovery policy, even in the case of withdrawn or denied applications, and suspended or terminated right-of-way permits. In addition to the application charge referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, the NPS may recover other actual costs incurred in processing an application for a right-of-way permit or special use permit for construction, including, but not limited to, costs incurred from completion of required compliance and reviews, appraisal or valuation related costs, and costs incurred from monitoring or managing permittee activities during the term of a permit.


(b) An applicant must pay an application charge with each application for a right-of-way permit unless this charge is waived by the NPS pursuant to NPS cost recovery policy. The application charge will include costs incurred by the NPS for review of the application to determine if it is complete. At its discretion, the NPS also may include costs incurred for initial discussions (including pre-application meetings) in the application charge.


(1) The minimum application charge for a right-of-way permit is the cost of two hours of the System unit permit coordinator's time, plus one hour of their supervisor's time, including overhead costs.


(2) If the System unit permit coordinator is the superintendent, then the minimum application charge is the cost of two hours of the superintendent's time, including overhead costs.


(3) The application charge addresses the costs incurred by the NPS in initially discussing and reviewing an application for completeness and does not constitute all of the costs that the NPS may recover.






