# ยง 1822.266   Limitations.

(a) *Loan limits.* No RHS loan(s) will be made to any applicant which will result in the applicant's owning an unpaid principal balance of more than $100,000 on such loan(s) unless prior authorization for a larger loan is obtained from the national office. No such loan will exceed the development cost as defined in ยง 1822.263(d), or the value of the property as improved with the loan. These limitations also apply to cases in which the same persons hold a majority of the membership interests or constitute a majority of the directors of two or more applicants. 


(b) *Limitations of use of loan funds.* Loans will not be made for: 


(1) The purchase of land in excess of the immediate and identified needs in the locality. 


(2) The purchase of land from a member of an applicant-organization, or from another organization in which any member of the applicant-organization has an interest, without prior consent of the national office. 


(3) Refinancing of debts, except in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. 


(4) Payment of any fee, charge, or commission to any broker, negotiator, or other person for the referral of a prospective applicant or solicitation of a loan. 


(5) Payment of any fee, salary, commission, profit, or compensation to an applicant, or to any officer, director, trustee, stockholder, member or agent of an applicant, except as provided in ยง 1822.265(b). No contract or agreement for services to be paid for with loan funds should be executed by the applicant without prior approval by the State director. 


(c) *Sale of developed sites.* The sites developed with a section 524 loan must be for housing low- and moderate-income families and may be sold to families, nonprofit organizations, public agencies, and cooperatives eligible for assistance under any section of title V of the Housing Act of 1949, or under any other law which provides financial assistance. For example, this may include: 


(1) Individuals with low and moderate incomes eligible for HUD mortgages. 


(2) Individuals with low and moderate incomes eligible for VA guaranteed loans. 


(3) Individuals with low or moderate incomes eligible for a loan from any private lender which is authorized by law to provide financial assistance for housing. 


(4) Nonprofit organizations funded by Federal, State, or local governments carrying out programs for low- and moderate-income families to obtain housing. 


(5) State or local public agencies such as a housing authority or a housing finance development agency carrying out programs for low- and moderate-income families to obtain housing. 


(d) *Suitability of sites.* Sites will meet the requirements of the planned use; for example, individual housing or multiple housing or any combination thereof. Building sites must be well located and designed to provide a desirable living environment. Generally a loan will not be made for the development of less than 10 units, but they need not be contiguous. 


(e) *Obligations incurred before loan closing.* When an applicant files an application for a loan, the county supervisor will advise the applicant that development work must not be started and obligations for work, materials, or land purchase must not be incurred before the loan is closed. If, nevertheless, the applicant incurs obligations for work, materials, or land purchase before the loan is closed, the State director may authorize the use of loan funds to pay such obligations only when he finds that all the following conditions exist: 


(1) The obligations were incurred after the applicant filed a written application for a loan. 


(2) The applicant is unable to pay such obligations from its own resources or to obtain credit from other sources, and failure to authorize the use of loan funds to pay such debts would impair the applicant's financial position. 


(3) The obligations were incurred for authorized loan purposes. 


(4) Contracts, materials, development and any land purchase meet RD standards and requirements. 


(5) Payment of the obligations will remove any liens which have attached, and any basis for liens that may attach, to the property on account of such obligations or such work, materials, or land purchase. 



---

[N] [35 FR 10687, July 1, 1970, as amended at 40 FR 6951, Feb. 18, 1975; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015] 




