# ยง 4280.313   Grant provisions.

Grants offered under this program will be made to eligible MDOs in such amounts and requirements for microlenders with a loan(s) from the Agency, and for MDOs that seek only a TA grant from the Agency. Competition for these funds will occur as a part of the application and qualification process of becoming a microlender or grant recipient. No entity will receive grant funding as both a microlender and a TA-only provider. RMAP microlenders are not eligible for TA-only grant funding and an MDO receiving TA-only grant funding is not eligible for microlender grant funding. Failure to meet scoring benchmarks will preclude an applicant from receiving loan and/or grant dollars. Once an MDO is participating as a microlender, TA grant funds will be made available annually based on the MDO's lending balances and the availability of funds.


(a) *Microlender grants.* The Agency shall make microlender TA grants to microlenders to assist them in providing marketing, management, and other TA to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises that have received or are seeking one or more microloans from the microlender. The capacity of a microlender to provide an integrated program of microlending and TA will be evaluated during the scoring process with their loan application and then annually in determining the amount of annual grant funds. An eligible MDO selected to be a microlender will be eligible to receive a microlending TA grant if it receives funding to provide microloans under this program. Microlender applicants for loan funding to establish or replenish a revolving loan fund originally capitalized under this program, may simultaneously apply for TA grant funds in an amount not to exceed 25 percent of the requested loan amount.


(1) Technical assistance grants to microlenders will be awarded annually on a non-competitive basis in an amount based on the MDO's outstanding loan balance as of June 30, subject to satisfactory program performance of the microlender and the availability of funds. Satisfactory performance includes the timely payment of program loan(s) and the submission of periodic reports to the Agency. Annual TA grants to a microlender, subject to the availability of funds, will be made in an amount to replenish the microlender's TA fund to an amount equal to 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of loans made by the microlender to ultimate recipients unless otherwise published in an annual program funding notice. If available grant funds are not sufficient to fully replenish each microlender's TA funds to 20 percent of their outstanding loan balance, the available funds will be distributed proportionately based on the percentage of available funds to the total amount of annual TA grant funds requested.


(2) Any grant dollars obligated but not spent by the microlender from their initial or subsequent grants will be subtracted from the subsequent year's grant eligibility calculation to ensure that obligations cover only microloans made and active and that the MDO's total grant funds available for TA do not exceed the established 20 percent threshold.


(3) The microlender will agree to use TA grant funds exclusively for providing TA assistance and training to eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, with the exception that up to 10 percent of the grant funds may be used to cover the microlender's administrative expenses. Grant funds may not be used to make loan payments.


(b) *Technical assistance only grants.* Grants will be competitively made to MDOs for the purpose of providing TA and training to prospective microborrowers. Technical assistance-only grants will be provided to eligible MDOs that seek to provide business-based TA and training to eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, but do not seek funding as a microlender for an RMRF.


(1) The amount of a TA-only grant under this program will not exceed 10 percent of the amount of authorized appropriations available in any Federal FY for TA-only grants.


(2) Technical assistance only grants will have a grant term not to exceed 12 months from the date the grant agreement is signed.


(3) Technical assistance only grantees will be required to:


(i) Refer clients to internal or external non-program funded lenders for loans of $50,000 or less, and


(ii) Collect data regarding such clients. Technical assistance-only grantees will be considered successful if a minimum of 1-in-5 TA clients are referred for a microloan and are operating a business within 18 months of receiving TA from the MDO.


(c) *Matching requirement.* The MDO is required to provide a match of not less than 15 percent of the total amount of the grant in the form of matching funds, indirect costs, or in-kind goods or services. Unless specifically permitted by laws other than the statute authorizing RMAP, matching contributions must be made up of non-Federal funds.


(d) *Administrative expenses.* Not more than 10 percent of a grant received by an MDO for a Federal FY may be used to pay administrative expenses. Microlenders must annually submit a budget of proposed administrative expenses for Agency approval. The Agency has the right to deny the requested amount, even if it is at 10 percent or less, and to fund administrative expenses at a lower level.


(1) Administrative expenses should be kept to a minimum. As such, the applicant MDO is required in the application materials to provide an administrative budget plan indicating the amount of funding it will need for administrative purposes. Applicants will be scored accordingly, with those using less than 10 percent of the grant funds for administrative purposes being scored higher than those using 10 percent of the grant funds for administrative purposes.


(2) While operating the program, the selected grantee will be expected to adhere to the estimates it provides in its application and annual budget. If for any reason the MDO cannot meet those expectations, it must contact the Agency in writing with justification to request a budget adjustment. Budget adjustments will be considered only if the adjustment result for administrative expenses is within the 10 percent limitation.


(3) Microlenders that exceed 10 percent for administrative expenses will be considered in performance default and may be subject to Agency actions including the forfeiting of funds.


(e) *Ineligible grant purposes.* Grant funds, matching funds, indirect costs, and in-kind goods and services may not be used for:


(1) Grant application preparation costs;


(2) Costs incurred prior to the obligation date of the grant;


(3) Capital improvements;


(4) Political or lobbying activities;


(5) Assistance to any ineligible entity;


(6) Payment of any judgment or debt owed; or


(7) Payment of any loan.


(f) *Facilitation of access to capital.* Technical assistance-only grantees will be expected to provide training and TA services to the extent that access to capital for eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises is facilitated by referral to either an internal or external non-program loan fund so that these clients may take advantage of available financing programs.


(g) *Grant agreement.* For any grant to an MDO or microlender, the Agency will notify the approved applicant in writing, using an Agency-approved grant agreement, setting out the conditions under which the grant will be made. The form will include those matters necessary to ensure that the proposed grant is completed in accordance with the proposed project, that grant funds are expended for authorized purposes, and that the applicable requirements prescribed in the relevant Agency regulations are complied with.




