# ยง 9800.105   Responses to requests.

(a) *In general.* CIGIE will, to the extent practicable, communicate with requesters having access to the internet using electronic means, such as email.


(b) *Acknowledgments of requests.* CIGIE will acknowledge the request in writing and assign it an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 working days to process. CIGIE will include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests.


(c) *Grants of requests.* Once CIGIE makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it will notify the requester in writing. CIGIE also will inform the requester of any fees charged under ยง 9800.109 and will disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. CIGIE will inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.


(d) *Adverse determinations of requests.* When CIGIE makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, it will notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: The requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.


(e) *Content of denial.* The denial will include:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied by CIGIE in denying the request;


(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption; and


(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under ยง 9800.107 and a description of the requirements set forth therein.


(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services.


(f) *Markings on released documents.* Markings on released documents must be clearly visible to the requester. Records disclosed in part will be marked to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted will also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.


(g) *Use of record exclusions.* (1) In the event that CIGIE identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), CIGIE will confer with the Department of Justice Office of Information Policy (OIP) to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.


(2) Should CIGIE invoke an exclusion, it will maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.




