# § 1302.8   Procedure for effecting compliance.

(a) *General.* If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this regulation may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to, 


(1) A reference to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States (including other titles of the Act), 


(2) Institution of appropriate proceedings by TVA to enforce the provisions of the agreement of financial assistance or of any deed or instrument relating thereto, and 


(3) Any applicable proceeding under State or local law. 


(b) *Noncompliance with § 1302.5.* If anyone requesting financial assistance declines to furnish the assurance required under § 1302.5 of this part, or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to that section, financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section and for such purposes, the term “recipient” shall be deemed to include one which has been denied financial assistance. TVA shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under such paragraph except that TVA shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an agreement therefor entered into with TVA prior to the effective date of this part. 


(c) *Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue financial assistance.* No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue financial assistance shall become effective until (1) TVA has advised the recipient of his failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means, (2) there has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, or a failure by the recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part, (3) the action has been approved by the TVA Board pursuant to § 1302.9, and (4) the expiration of 30 days after the TVA Board has filed with the committee of the House and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the program involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action. Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or recipient as to whom such a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found. 


(d) *Other means authorized by law.* No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until (1) TVA has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means, (2) the recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance, and (3) the expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient or other person. During this period of at least 10 days additional efforts shall be made to persuade the recipient or other person to comply with the regulation and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate. 



---

[N] [30 FR 311, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17945, July 5, 1973. Redesignated at 44 FR 30682, May 29, 1979. Redesignated and amended at 49 FR 20483, May 15, 1984; 49 FR 47384, Dec. 4, 1984] 




