# ยง 1781.4   Definitions.

(a) *Watershed (WS) project.* An authorized area in which watershed assistance from NRCS and other U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) agencies including WS loans and advances may be provided. Watershed assistance is provided in two types of watershed projects identified by the Public Law under which they are authorized.


(1) *Public Law-534 Watershed.* One of the 11 watersheds authorized by Congress in the Flood Control Act of 1944 (33 U.S.C. 701 *et seq.*), Public Law 78-534 as amended.


(2) *Public Law-566 Watershed.* A small watershed of not more than 250,000 acres authorized in accordance with the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act, August 4, 1954, Public Law 83-566 as amended.


(b) *Resource Conservation and Development (RCD) area.* An area in which RCD program assistance from NRCS and other USDA agencies has been authorized. It usually includes all or part of more than one county and may be coterminous with substate planning and development areas. RCD loans are authorized under Section 32 of Title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011).


(c) *Watershed plan.* A plan agreed upon by sponsoring local organizations and the NRCS for developing, operating, and maintaining watershed works of improvement.


(d) *RC&D measure plan.* A plan document for a land area, directly controlled or under the jurisdiction of the sponsoring public bodies or public nonprofit organization. It involves one of the measure purposes eligible for RC&D cost sharing assistance. The document sets forth what will be done, how, when and by whom, and involves RC&D technical and/or financial assistance.


(e) *RCD area plan.* A plan prepared by sponsoring local organizations with assistance from NRCS and other agencies for the development of the RCD area which has been endorsed by the Governor or his designated agency and accepted by the Secretary of Agriculture or his delegate. It includes objectives, planned courses of action, and RCD measures to be developed. It is amended as necessary to include continuing activities and needs in the RCD area.


(f) *Watershed works of improvement.* Structural, nonstructural, and land treatment measures included in a watershed plan which are to be installed in a watershed project.


(g) *RCD measure or project.* An activity or development indicated in the RCD area plan as being needed to achieve RCD area goals and objectives.


(h) *Cost sharing.* The WS and RCD legislative authorities provide for sharing certain costs of installing WS works of improvement or RCD measures by the Federal Government and by sponsoring local organizations. Federal cost sharing from WS and RCD funds is provided by NRCS for certain WS works of improvement and RCD measures. Information on amounts, purposes, and procedures for cost sharing is available from the NRCS.


(i) *Local cost.* The part of the cost of a WS work of improvement or a RCD measure or project that is to be paid by a sponsoring local organization.


(j) *Public agency or public body.* A State agency or department or instrumentality, county, municipality or other political subdivision or instrumentality of a State or agencies or districts created by or pursuant to State law for making improvements of a public nature or providing public services such as soil and water conservation districts, irrigation districts, drainage districts, flood prevention and control districts, school districts, other special purpose districts, municipal corporations or similar governmental units.


(k) *Non-profit corporation.* Mutual and other irrigation, water users, water supply, drainage, or waste disposal companies or associations, ditch companies, grazing, recreation and forestry associations and similar associations and organizations generally designated as private corporations operating on a non-profit basis. They may be organized and chartered under special law, general nonprofit corporation law, or general profit corporation law, if operated on a nonprofit basis under adequate charter, bylaw, mortgage or supplementary agreement provisions which will assure continued operation in that manner.


(l) *Sponsoring local organization.* A local public agency or body or a local nonprofit corporation having authority under State law to plan, develop, maintain and operate WS works of improvement or RCD measures or projects included in a WS or RCD area plan. The name of the sponsoring local organization must be included in the plan and sponsorship must be evidenced by execution of the plan.


(m) *Watershed loan.* A loan made by RUS from watershed funds to a sponsoring local organization to develop a WS work of improvement.


(n) *RCD loan.* A loan made by RUS from RCD funds to a local sponsoring organization to develop a RCD measure or project. RCD loans are made from RCD funds to enable sponsoring local organizations to provide a part or all of the local share of cost for an RCD measure.


(o) *Watershed advance.* A loan made from NRCS watershed construction funds to develop a future water supply or for the preservation of a site for a work of improvement authorized in a watershed plan.


(p) *Future water supply.* Water storage capacity in a reservoir with related facilities for release or withdrawal of water to meet future needs for municipal or industrial use.


(q) *Preservation of sites.* Acquisition to assure their availability for planned developments. Land, easements, or rights-of-way essential to preserve sites for watershed works of improvement or RCD measures.


(r) *Processing office.* Means the office designated by the Rural Development State Director to accept and process applications for WS and RCD loans and advances.




