# § 184.1461   Manganese sulfate.

(a) Manganese sulfate (MnSO_4_·H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 7785-0987-097) is a pale pink, granular, odorless powder. It is obtained by reacting manganese compounds with sulfuric acid. It is also obtained as a byproduct in the manufacture of hydroquinone. Other manufacturing processes include the action of sulfur dioxide on a slurry of manganese dioxide in sulfuric acid, and the roasting of pyrolusite (MnO_2_) ore with solid ferrous sulfate and coal, followed by leaching and crystallization.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 188, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; nonalcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; dairy product analogs as defined in § 170.3(n)(10) of this chapter; fish products as defined in § 170.3(n(13) of this chapter; meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter; milk products as defined in § 170.3(n)(31) of this chapter; and poultry products as defined in § 170.3(n)(34) of this chapter.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [50 FR 19166, May 7, 1985]




