# ยง 2.75-25   Portable fire extinguishers.

(a) The portable fire extinguishers listed and labeled as *marine type* by a recognized laboratory, as provided in subpart 162.028 of part 162 of subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter, will be accepted as approved for use on merchant vessels, motorboats, etc., whenever required by the regulations in this chapter, and for use on artificial islands and fixed structures on the Outer Continental Shelf whenever required by the regulations in 33 CFR parts 140 to 146, inclusive. 


(b) The procedures for manufacturers to follow and the requirements governing portable fire extinguishers to qualify being listed and labeled as *marine type* by a recognized laboratory are set forth in subpart 162.028 of part 162 of subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter. 


(c) The procedures for a laboratory to qualify as a *recognized laboratory* and to be listed in ยง 162.028-5 of subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter are as follows: 


(1) The laboratory shall submit an informal application in writing on its usual letterhead paper to the Commandant (CG-5PS), Attn: Director of Commercial Regulations, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509, requesting recognition and listing, as a recognized laboratory. 


(2) Accompanying the informal application, as identified enclosures, shall be: 


(i) A certification that it is a laboratory which has been and is regularly engaged in the examination, testing, and evaluation of portable fire extinguishers. 


(ii) A certification that it has an established factory inspection, listing, and labeling program, together with a complete description of it and how it works. 


(iii) A description of its facilities used in the examination, testing, and evaluation of portable fire extinguishers, together with its name (if different from that of submitter), and location (city, street, and state). 


(iv) A list of the names and home and office addresses of its principal officers and its managing directors (if any). 


(v) A description of its special standards for listing and labeling portable fire extinguishers as *marine type,* as contemplated by the specification in subpart 162.028 of part 162 of subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter. 


(3) If the Commandant finds that a laboratory qualifies as a *recognized laboratory,* and it is subject to Coast Guard jurisdiction, the approval and listing will be published on the Coast Guard's Maritime Information eXchange Web site at *http://cgmix.uscg.mil/equipment* and will be in effect until suspended, canceled or terminated by proper authority. The failure of a recognized laboratory to maintain its established factory inspection, listing and labeling program as approved by the Commandant shall be cause for terminating a listing as a *recognized laboratory.*


---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16604, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGD 82-063b, 48 FR 4781, Feb. 3, 1983; USCG-2015-0867, 80 FR 62469, Oct. 16, 2015]




