# ยง 2650.5-1   General.

(a) Selected areas are to be surveyed as provided in section 13 of the Act. Any survey or description used as a basis for conveyance must be adequate to identify the lands to be conveyed. 


(b) The following procedures shall be used to determine what acreage is not to be charged against Native entitlement:


(1) For any approved plat of survey where meanderable water bodies were not segregated from the survey but were included in the calculation of acreage to be charged against the Native corporation's land entitlement, the chargeable acreage shall, at no cost to the Native corporation, be recalculated to conform to the principles contained in the Bureau of Land Management's *Manual of Surveying Instructions,* 1973, except as modified by this part. Pursuant to such principles, the acreage of meanderable water bodies, as modified by this part, shall not be included in the acreage charged against the Native corporation's land entitlement.


(2) For any plat of survey approved after December 5, 1983, water bodies shall be meandered and segregated from the survey in accordance with the principles contained in the Bureau of Land Management's *Manual of Surveying Instructions,* 1973, as modified by this part, as the basis for determining acreage chargeability.


(3) If title to lands beneath navigable waters, as defined in the Submerged Lands Act, of a lake less than 50 acres in size or a river or stream less than 3 chains in width did not vest in the State on the date of Statehood, such lake, river or stream shall not be meandered and shall be charged against the Native corporation's entitlement.


(4) Any determinations of meanders which may be made pursuant to this paragraph shall not require monumentation on the ground unless specifically required by law or for good cause in the public interest.



---

[N] [38 FR 14218, May 30, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 15547, Apr. 19, 1985]




