# § 262.13   Generator category determination.

A generator must determine its generator category. A generator's category is based on the amount of hazardous waste generated each month and may change from month to month. This section sets forth procedures to determine whether a generator is a very small quantity generator, a small quantity generator, or a large quantity generator for a particular month, as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter.


(a) *Generators of either acute hazardous waste or non-acute hazardous waste.* A generator who either generates acute hazardous waste or non-acute hazardous waste in a calendar month shall determine its generator category for that month by doing the following:


(1) Counting the total amount of hazardous waste generated in the calendar month;


(2) Subtracting from the total any amounts of waste exempt from counting as described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section; and


(3) Determining the resulting generator category for the hazardous waste generated using Table 1 of this section.


(b) *Generators of both acute and non-acute hazardous wastes.* A generator who generates both acute hazardous waste and non-acute hazardous waste in the same calendar month shall determine its generator category for that month by doing the following:


(1) Counting separately the total amount of acute hazardous waste and the total amount of non-acute hazardous waste generated in the calendar month;


(2) Subtracting from each total any amounts of waste exempt from counting as described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section;


(3) Determining separately the resulting generator categories for the quantities of acute and non-acute hazardous waste generated using Table 1 of this section; and


(4) Comparing the resulting generator categories from paragraph (b)(3) of this section and applying the more stringent generator category to the accumulation and management of both non-acute hazardous waste and acute hazardous waste generated for that month.


(c) When making the monthly quantity-based determinations required by this part, the generator must include all hazardous waste that it generates, except hazardous waste that:


(1) Is exempt from regulation under 40 CFR 261.4(c) through (f), 261.6(a)(3), 261.7(a)(1), or 261.8;


(2) Is managed immediately upon generation only in on-site elementary neutralization units, wastewater treatment units, or totally enclosed treatment facilities as defined in 40 CFR 260.10;


(3) Is recycled, without prior storage or accumulation, only in an on-site process subject to regulation under 40 CFR 261.6(c)(2);


(4) Is used oil managed under the requirements of 40 CFR 261.6(a)(4) and 40 CFR part 279;


(5) Is spent lead-acid batteries managed under the requirements of 40 CFR part 266 subpart G;


(6) Is universal waste managed under 40 CFR 261.9 and 40 CFR part 273;


(7) Is a hazardous waste that is an unused commercial chemical product (listed in 40 CFR part 261 subpart D or exhibiting one or more characteristics in 40 CFR part 261 subpart C) that is generated solely as a result of a laboratory clean-out conducted at an eligible academic entity pursuant to § 262.213. For purposes of this provision, the term eligible academic entity shall have the meaning as defined in § 262.200; or


(8) Is managed as part of an episodic event in compliance with the conditions of subpart L of this part.




(9) Is a hazardous waste pharmaceutical, as defined in § 266.500, that is subject to or managed in accordance with 40 CFR part 266 subpart P or is a hazardous waste pharmaceutical that is also a Drug Enforcement Administration controlled substance and is conditionally exempt under § 266.506.


(d) In determining the quantity of hazardous waste generated in a calendar month, a generator need not include:


(1) Hazardous waste when it is removed from on-site accumulation, so long as the hazardous waste was previously counted once;


(2) Hazardous waste generated by on-site treatment (including reclamation) of the generator's hazardous waste, so long as the hazardous waste that is treated was previously counted once; and


(3) Hazardous waste spent materials that are generated, reclaimed, and subsequently reused on site, so long as such spent materials have been previously counted once.


(e) Based on the generator category as determined under this section, the generator must meet the applicable independent requirements listed in § 262.10. A generator's category also determines which of the provisions of §§ 262.14, 262.15, 262.16 or 262.17 must be met to obtain an exemption from the storage facility permit, interim status, and operating requirements when accumulating hazardous waste.


(f) *Mixing hazardous wastes with solid wastes*—(1) *Very small quantity generator wastes.* (i) Hazardous wastes generated by a very small quantity generator may be mixed with solid wastes. Very small quantity generators may mix a portion or all of its hazardous waste with solid waste and remain subject to § 262.14 even though the resultant mixture exceeds the quantity limits identified in the definition of very small quantity generator at § 260.10 of this chapter, unless the mixture exhibits one or more of the characteristics of hazardous waste identified in part 261 subpart C of this chapter.


(ii) If the resulting mixture exhibits a characteristic of hazardous waste, this resultant mixture is a newly-generated hazardous waste. The very small quantity generator must count both the resultant mixture amount plus the other hazardous waste generated in the calendar month to determine whether the total quantity exceeds the very small quantity generator calendar month quantity limits identified in the definition of generator categories found in § 260.10 of this chapter. If so, to remain exempt from the permitting, interim status, and operating standards, the very small quantity generator must meet the conditions for exemption applicable to either a small quantity generator or a large quantity generator. The very small quantity generator must also comply with the applicable independent requirements for either a small quantity generator or a large quantity generator.


(iii) If a very small quantity generator's wastes are mixed with used oil, the mixture is subject to 40 CFR part 279. Any material produced from such a mixture by processing, blending, or other treatment is also regulated under 40 CFR part 279.


(2) *Small quantity generator and large quantity generator wastes.* (i) Hazardous wastes generated by a small quantity generator or large quantity generator may be mixed with solid waste. These mixtures are subject to the following: the mixture rule in §§ 261.3(a)(2)(iv), (b)(2) and (3), and (g)(2)(i); the prohibition of dilution rule at § 268.3(a); the land disposal restriction requirements of § 268.40 if a characteristic hazardous waste is mixed with a solid waste so that it no longer exhibits the hazardous characteristic; and the hazardous waste determination requirement at § 262.11.


(ii) If the resulting mixture is found to be a hazardous waste, this resultant mixture is a newly-generated hazardous waste. A small quantity generator must count both the resultant mixture amount plus the other hazardous waste generated in the calendar month to determine whether the total quantity exceeds the small quantity generator calendar monthly quantity limits identified in the definition of generator categories found in § 260.10 of this chapter. If so, to remain exempt from the permitting, interim status, and operating standards, the small quantity generator must meet the conditions for exemption applicable to a large quantity generator. The small quantity generator must also comply with the applicable independent requirements for a large quantity generator.



---

[N] [81 FR 85808, Nov. 28, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 5939, Feb. 22, 2019]




