# § 26.2652-1   Transferor defined; other definitions.

(a) *Transferor defined*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the individual with respect to whom property was most recently subject to Federal estate or gift tax is the transferor of that property for purposes of chapter 13. An individual is treated as transferring any property with respect to which the individual is the transferor. Thus, an individual may be a transferor even though there is no transfer of property under local law at the time the Federal estate or gift tax applies. For purposes of this paragraph, a surviving spouse is the transferor of a qualified domestic trust created by the deceased spouse that is included in the surviving spouse's gross estate, provided the trust is not subject to the election described in § 26.2652-2 (reverse QTIP election). A surviving spouse is also the transferor of a qualified domestic trust created by the surviving spouse pursuant to section 2056(d)(2)(B). For generation-skipping transfer tax rules related to an ABLE account established under section 529A, see § 1.529A-4 of this chapter.


(2) *Transfers subject to Federal estate or gift tax.* For purposes of this chapter, a transfer is subject to Federal gift tax if a gift tax is imposed under section 2501(a) (without regard to exemptions, exclusions, deductions, and credits). A transfer is subject to Federal estate tax if the value of the property is includible in the decedent's gross estate as determined under section 2031 or section 2103.


(3) *Special rule for certain QTIP trusts.* Solely for purposes of chapter 13, if a transferor of qualified terminable interest property (QTIP) elects under § 26.2652-2(a) to treat the property as if the QTIP election had not been made (reverse QTIP election), the identity of the transferor of the property is determined without regard to the application of sections 2044, 2207A, and 2519.


(4) *Split-gift transfers.* In the case of a transfer with respect to which the donor's spouse makes an election under section 2513 to treat the gift as made one-half by the spouse, the electing spouse is treated as the transferor of one-half of the entire value of the property transferred by the donor, regardless of the interest the electing spouse is actually deemed to have transferred under section 2513. The donor is treated as the transferor of one-half of the value of the entire property. See § 26.2632-1(c)(5) *Example 3,* regarding allocation of GST exemption with respect to split-gift transfers subject to an ETIP.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (a):


(b) *Trust defined*—(1) *In general.* A trust includes any arrangement (other than an estate) that has substantially the same effect as a trust. Thus, for example, arrangements involving life estates and remainders, estates for years, and insurance and annuity contracts are trusts. Generally, a transfer as to which the identity of the transferee is contingent upon the occurrence of an event is a transfer in trust; however, a transfer of property included in the transferor's gross estate, as to which the identity of the transferee is contingent upon an event that must occur within 6 months of the transferor's death, is not considered a transfer in trust solely by reason of the existence of the contingency.


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b):


(c) *Trustee defined.* The trustee of a trust is the person designated as trustee under local law or, if no such person is so designated, the person in actual or constructive possession of property held in trust.


(d) *Executor defined.* For purposes of chapter 13, the executor is the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate. However, if no executor or administrator is appointed, qualified or acting within the United States, the executor is the fiduciary who is primarily responsible for payment of the decedent's debts and expenses. If there is no such executor, administrator or fiduciary, the executor is the person in actual or constructive possession of the largest portion of the value of the decedent's gross estate.


(e) *Interest in trust.* See § 26.2612-1(e) for the definition of *interest in trust.*


---

[N] [T.D. 8644, 60 FR 66903, Dec. 27, 1995; 61 FR 29654, June 12, 1996, as amended by T.D. 8720, 62 FR 27498, May 20, 1997; T.D. 9923, 85 FR 74047, Nov. 19, 2020]




