# § 206.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context requires otherwise:


(a) *Bank* means an insured depository institution, as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813), and includes an insured national bank, state bank, District bank, or savings association, and an insured branch of a foreign bank.


(b) *Commonly-controlled correspondent* means a correspondent that is commonly controlled with the bank and for which the bank is subject to liability under section 5(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A correspondent is considered to be commonly controlled with the bank if:


(1) 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the bank and the correspondent are owned, directly or indirectly, by the same depository institution or company; or


(2) Either the bank or the correspondent owns 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other.


(c) *Correspondent* means a U.S. depository institution or a foreign bank, as defined in this part, to which a bank has exposure, but does not include a commonly controlled correspondent.


(d) *Exposure* means the potential that an obligation will not be paid in a timely manner or in full. “Exposure” includes credit and liquidity risks, including operational risks, related to intraday and interday transactions.


(e) *Foreign bank* means an institution that: (1) Is organized under the laws of a country other than the United States;


(2) Engages in the business of banking;


(3) Is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authorities of the country of the bank's organization;


(4) Receives deposits to a substantial extent in the regular course of business; and


(5) Has the power to accept demand deposits.


(f) *Primary federal supervisor* has the same meaning as the term “appropriate Federal banking agency” in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


(g) *Total capital* means the total of a bank's Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital under the risk-based capital guidelines provided by the bank's primary federal supervisor. For a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), total capital means the bank's Tier 1 capital (as defined in § 217.2 of this chapter and calculated in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter). For an insured branch of a foreign bank organized under the laws of a country that subscribes to the principles of the Basel Capital Accord, “total capital” means total Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital as calculated under the standards of that country. For an insured branch of a foreign bank organized under the laws of a country that does not subscribe to the principles of the Basel Capital Accord (Accord), “total capital” means total Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital as calculated under the provisions of the Accord.


(h) *U.S. depository institution* means a bank, as defined in § 206.2(a) of this part, other than an insured branch of a foreign bank.



---

[N] [Reg. F, 57 FR 60106, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended at 68 FR 53283, Sept. 10, 2003; 84 FR 61796, Nov. 13, 2019]




