# § 63.8105   What definitions apply to this subpart?

(a) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart SS of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart SS of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.981, except as specified in §§ 63.8000(d)(5)(ii) and (7), 63.8010(c)(2), 63.8025(b), and paragraph (g) of this section.


(b) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart TT of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart TT of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.1001.


(c) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart UU of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart UU of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.1020.


(d) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart WW of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and subpart WW of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.1061, except as specified in §§ 63.8000(d)(7), 63.8010(c)(2), and paragraph (g) of this section.


(e) For an affected source complying with requirements in §§ 63.1253, 63.1257, and 63.1258, the terms used in this subpart and in §§ 63.1253, 63.1257, and 63.1258 have the meaning given them in § 63.1251, except as specified in § 63.8000(d)(7) and paragraph (g) of this section.


(f) For an affected source complying with the requirements of § 63.104, the terms used in this subpart and in § 63.104 have the meaning given them in § 63.101, except as specified in § 63.8000(d)(7) and paragraph (g) of this section.






(g) All other terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this paragraph (g). If a term is defined in § 63.2, § 63.981, § 63.1001, § 63.1020, § 63.1061, or § 63.1251 and in this paragraph (g), the definition in this paragraph (g) applies for the purposes of this subpart.




*Bag Leak Detection System (BLDS)* means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse in order to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A BLDS includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.




*Bulk loading* means the loading, into a tank truck or rail car, of liquid coating products that contain one or more of the organic HAP, as defined in section 112 of the CAA, from a loading rack. A loading rack is the system used to fill tank trucks and railcars at a single geographic site.


*Coating* means a material such as paint, ink, or adhesive that is intended to be applied to a substrate and consists of a mixture of resins, pigments, solvents, and/or other additives, where the material is produced by a manufacturing operation where materials are blended, mixed, diluted, or otherwise formulated. Coating does not include materials made in processes where a formulation component is synthesized by chemical reaction or separation activity and then transferred to another vessel where it is formulated to produce a material used as a coating, where the synthesized or separated component is not stored prior to formulation. Typically, coatings include products described by the following North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes, code 325510, Paint and Coating Manufacturing, code 325520, Adhesive and Sealant Manufacturing, and code 325910, Ink Manufacturing.


*Construction* means the onsite fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source. Addition of new equipment to an affected source does not constitute construction, but it may constitute reconstruction of the affected source if it satisfies the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard;


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(iii) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), fails to meet any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during SSM, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), this paragraph (iii) no longer applies.








*Enhanced biological treatment system* means an aerated, thoroughly mixed treatment unit(s) that contains biomass suspended in water followed by a clarifier that removes biomass from the treated water and recycles recovered biomass to the aeration unit. The mixed liquor volatile suspended solids (biomass) is greater than 1 kilogram per cubic meter throughout each aeration unit. The biomass is suspended and aerated in the water of the aeration unit(s) either by submerged air flow or mechanical agitation. A thoroughly mixed treatment unit is a unit that is designed and operated to approach or achieve uniform biomass distribution and organic compound concentration throughout the aeration unit by quickly dispersing the recycled biomass and the wastewater entering the unit.


*Excess emissions* means emissions greater than those allowed by the emission limit.




*Fabric filter* means an air collection and control system that utilizes a bag filter to reduce the emissions of metal HAP and other particulate matter.




*Group 1a storage tank* means a storage tank at an existing source with a capacity greater than or equal to 20,000 gal storing material that has a maximum true vapor pressure of total organic HAP greater than or equal to 1.9 pounds per square inch, absolute (psia). Group 1a storage tank also means a storage tank at a new source with either a capacity greater than or equal to 25,000 gal storing material that has a maximum true vapor pressure of total HAP greater than or equal to 0.1 psia or a capacity greater than or equal to 20,000 gal and less than 25,000 gal storing material that has a maximum true vapor pressure of total HAP greater than or equal to 1.5 psia.


*Group 1b storage tank* means a storage tank at a new source that has a capacity greater than or equal to 10,000 gal, stores material that has a maximum true vapor pressure of total organic HAP greater than or equal to 0.02 psia, and is not a Group 1a storage tank.


*Group 2 storage tank* means a storage tank that does not meet the definition of a Group 1a or Group 1b storage tank.


*Group 1 transfer operations* means all bulk loading of coating products if the coatings contain greater than or equal to 3.0 million gallons per year (gal/yr) of HAP with a weighted average HAP partial pressure greater than or equal to 1.5 psia.


*Group 2 transfer operations* means bulk loading of coating products that does not meet the definition of Group 1 transfer operations, and all loading of coating products from a loading rack to other types of containers such as cans, drums, and totes.


*Group 1 wastewater stream* means a wastewater stream that contains total partially soluble and soluble HAP at an annual average concentration greater than or equal to 4,000 parts per million by weight (ppmw) and load greater than or equal to 750 pounds per year (lb/yr) at an existing source or greater than or equal to 1,600 ppmw and any partially soluble and soluble HAP load at a new source.


*Group 2 wastewater stream* means a wastewater stream that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 wastewater stream.


*Halogenated vent stream* means a vent stream determined to contain halogen atoms in organic compounds at a concentration greater than or equal to 20 ppmv as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.8000(b).


*Hydrogen halide and halogen HAP* means hydrogen chloride, chlorine, and hydrogen fluoride.


*In organic HAP service* means that a piece of equipment either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 5 percent by weight of total organic HAP as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service.


*Large control device* means a control device that controls total HAP emissions of greater than or equal to 10 tpy, before control.




*Material containing metal HAP* means a material containing compounds of manganese, antimony, nickel, lead, cobalt, chromium, cadmium, and arsenic compounds, in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material.






*Maximum true vapor pressure* means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the total organic HAP in the stored or transferred liquid at the temperature equal to the highest calendar-month average of the liquid storage or transfer temperature for liquids stored or transferred above or below the ambient temperature or at the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service for liquids stored or transferred at the ambient temperature, as determined:


(1) In accordance with methods described in American Petroleum Institute Publication 2517, Evaporative Loss From External Floating-Roof Tanks (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14 of subpart A of this part 63); or


(2) As obtained from standard reference texts; or


(3) As determined by the American Society for Testing and Materials Method D2879-83 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14 of subpart A of this part); or


(4) Any other method approved by the Administrator.


*Partially soluble HAP* means HAP listed in Table 7 of this subpart.


*Point of determination (POD)* means each point where process wastewater exits the miscellaneous coating operations.


*Process vessel* means any stationary or portable tank or other vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 250 gal and in which mixing, blending, diluting, dissolving, temporary holding, and other processing steps occur in the manufacturing of a coating.


*Process vessel vent* means a vent from a process vessel or vents from multiple process vessels that are manifolded together into a common header, through which a HAP-containing gas stream is, or has the potential to be, released to the atmosphere. Emission streams that are undiluted and uncontrolled containing less than 50 ppmv HAP, as determined through process knowledge that no HAP are present in the emission stream or using an engineering assessment as discussed in § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii), test data using Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or any other test method that has been validated according to the procedures in Method 301 of appendix A of this part, are not considered process vessel vents. Flexible elephant trunk systems when used with closed vent systems and drawing ambient air (*i.e.,* the system is not ducted, piped, or otherwise connected to the unit operations) away from operators when vessels are opened are not process vessel vents. Process vessel vents do not include vents on storage tanks, wastewater emission sources, or pieces of equipment subject to the requirements in Table 3 of this subpart. A gas stream going to a fuel gas system is not a process vessel vent. A gas stream routed to a process for a process purpose is not a process vessel vent.


*Recovery device,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means an individual unit of equipment used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (*i.e.,* net positive heating value), use, reuse, or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse. Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units. To be a recovery device, a decanter and any other equipment based on the operating principle of gravity separation must receive only multi-phase liquid streams. A recovery device is considered part of the miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.


*Safety device* means a closure device such as a pressure relief valve, frangible disc, fusible plug, or any other type of device which functions exclusively to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation to a unit or its air emission control equipment by venting gases or vapors directly to the atmosphere during unsafe conditions resulting from an unplanned, accidental, or emergency event. For the purposes of this subpart, a safety device is not used for routine venting of gases or vapors from the vapor headspace underneath a cover such as during filling of the unit or to adjust the pressure in response to normal daily diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations. A safety device is designed to remain in a closed position during normal operations and open only when the internal pressure, or another relevant parameter, exceeds the device threshold setting applicable to the air emission control equipment as determined by the owner or operator based on manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, combustible, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials.


*Shutdown* means the cessation of operation of an affected source, any process vessels within an affected source, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart if steps taken to cease operation differ from those under routine procedures for removing the vessel or equipment from service. Shutdown also applies to the emptying and degassing of storage tanks.








*Soluble HAP* means the HAP listed in Table 8 of this subpart. 


*Startup* means the setting in operation of a new affected source. For new equipment added to an affected source, including equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, startup means the first time the equipment is put into operation. Startup includes the setting in operation of equipment any time the steps taken differ from routine procedures for putting the equipment into operation. 


*Storage tank* means a tank or other vessel that is used to store organic liquids that contain one or more HAP as raw material feedstocks or products. The following are not considered storage tanks for the purposes of this subpart: 


(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships; 


(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere; 


(3) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities; 


(4) Wastewater storage tanks; and 


(5) Process vessels. 


*Total organic compounds or (TOC)* means the total gaseous organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) in a vent stream. 


*Wastewater storage tank* means a stationary structure that is designed to contain an accumulation of wastewater and is constructed primarily of nonearthen materials (*e.g.,* wood, concrete, steel, plastic) which provide structural support. 


*Wastewater stream* means water that is discarded from miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations through a POD, and that contains an annual average concentration of total partially soluble and soluble HAP compounds of at least 1,600 ppmw at any flow rate. For the purposes of this subpart, noncontact cooling water is not considered a wastewater stream. 


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the Clean Air Act.



---

[N] [68 FR 69185, Dec. 11, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 25682, May 13, 2005; 71 FR 58503, Oct. 4, 2006; 85 FR 49747, Aug. 14, 2020; 88 FR 10850, Feb. 22, 2023]





