# § 5.1   Definitions.

When used in this part and on forms prescribed under this part, the following terms have the meaning assigned to them in this section, unless the terms appear in a context that requires a different meaning. Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act) and used in this part has the same meaning assigned to it by the FAA Act.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury.


*Advertisement or Advertising.* See § 5.232 for meaning of these terms as used in subpart N of this part.


*Age.* The length of time during which, after distillation and before bottling, the distilled spirits have been stored in oak barrels. “Age” for bourbon whisky, rye whisky, wheat whisky, malt whisky, or rye malt whisky, and straight whiskies other than straight corn whisky and straight American single malt whisky, means the period the whisky has been stored in charred new oak barrels.






*American proof.* See *Proof.*

*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any function relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by the current version of TTB Order 1135.5, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR part 5, Labeling and Advertising of Distilled Spirits.


*Bottler.* Any distiller or processor of distilled spirits who places distilled spirits in containers.


*Brand name.* The name under which a distilled spirit or a line of distilled spirits is sold.


*Certificate holder.* The permittee or brewer whose name, address, and basic permit number, plant registry number, or brewer's notice number appears on an approved TTB Form 5100.31.


*Certificate of exemption from label approval.* A certificate issued on TTB Form 5100.31, which authorizes the bottling of wine or distilled spirits, under the condition that the product will under no circumstances be sold, offered for sale, shipped, delivered for shipment, or otherwise introduced by the applicant, directly or indirectly, into interstate or foreign commerce.


*Certificate of label approval (COLA).* A certificate issued on TTB Form 5100.31 that authorizes the bottling of wine, distilled spirits, or malt beverages, or the removal of bottled wine, distilled spirits, or malt beverages from customs custody for introduction into commerce, as long as the product bears labels identical to the labels appearing on the face of the certificate, or labels with changes authorized by TTB on the certificate or otherwise (such as through the issuance of public guidance available on the TTB website at *https://www.ttb.gov).*

*Container.* Any can, bottle, box, cask, keg, or other closed receptacle, in any size or material, which is for use in the sale of distilled spirits at retail. See subpart K of this part for rules regarding authorized standards of fill for containers.


*Customs officer.* An officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of such an officer.


*Distilled spirits.* Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine, whisky, rum, brandy, gin, and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, for nonindustrial use. The term “distilled spirits” does not include mixtures containing wine, bottled at 48 degrees of proof (24 percent alcohol by volume) or less, if the mixture contains more than 50 percent wine on a proof gallon basis. The term “distilled spirits” also does not include products containing less than one degree of proof (0.5 percent alcohol by volume).


*Distilling season.* The period from January 1 through June 30, which is the spring distilling season, or the period from July 1 through December 31, which is the fall distilling season.


*Distinctive or fanciful name.* A descriptive name or phrase chosen to identify a distilled spirits product on the label. It does not include a brand name, class or type designation, or statement of composition.


*FAA Act.* The Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Gallon.* A U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches at 60 degrees Fahrenheit.


*Grain.* Includes cereal grains and the seeds of the pseudocereals amaranth, buckwheat, and quinoa.


*In bulk.* In barrels or other receptacles having a capacity in excess of 1 wine gallon (3.785 liters).


*Interstate or foreign commerce.* Commerce between any State and any place outside of that State or commerce within the District of Columbia or commerce between points within the same State but through any place outside of that State.


*Liter or litre.* A metric unit of capacity equal to 1,000 cubic centimeters or 1,000 milliliters (mL) of distilled spirits at 15.56 degrees Celsius (60 degrees Fahrenheit), and equivalent to 33.814 U.S. fluid ounces.


*Net contents.* The amount, by volume, of distilled spirits held in a container.


*Permittee.* Any person holding a basic permit under the FAA Act.


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, business trust, limited liability company, or other form of business enterprise, including a receiver, trustee, or liquidating agent and including an officer or employee of any agency of a State or political subdivision of a State.


*Produced at or distilled at.* When used with reference to specific degrees of proof of a distilled spirits product, the phrases “produced at” and “distilled at” mean the composite proof of the distilled spirits after completion of distillation and before reduction in proof, if any.


*Proof.* The ethyl alcohol content of a liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, stated as twice the percentage of ethyl alcohol by volume.


*Proof gallon.* A gallon of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit that contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity, or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Responsible advertiser.* The permittee responsible for the publication or broadcast of an advertisement.


*Spirits.* See Distilled spirits.


*State.* One of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


*TTB.* The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the Department of the Treasury.


*United States (U.S.).* The 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.





---

[N] [T.D. TTB-176, 87 7579, Feb. 9, 2022, as amended by T.D. TTB-199, 89 FR 102734, Dec. 18, 2024]




