# § 121.414   Initial, transition and recurrent training and checking requirements: Flight instructors.

(a) No certificate holder may use a person nor may any person serve as a flight instructor unless—


(1) That person has satisfactorily completed initial or transition flight instructor training; and


(2) Within the preceding 24 calendar months, that person satisfactorily conducts instruction under the observation of an FAA inspector, an operator check pilot, a check flight engineer, or an aircrew designated examiner employed by the operator, as appropriate. The observation check may be accomplished in part or in full in an airplane and an FSTD.


(b) The observation check required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section is considered to have been completed in the month required if completed in the calendar month before, or the calendar month after, the month in which it is due.


(c) The initial ground training for flight instructors must include the following:


(1) Flight instructor duties, functions, and responsibilities.


(2) The applicable Code of Federal Regulations and the certificate holder's policies and procedures.


(3) The appropriate methods, procedures, and techniques for conducting flight instruction.


(4) Proper evaluation of student performance including the detection of—


(i) Improper and insufficient training; and


(ii) Personal characteristics of an applicant that could adversely affect safety.


(5) The corrective action in the case of unsatisfactory training progress.


(6) The approved methods, procedures, and limitations for performing the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures in the airplane.


(7) Except for holders of a flight instructor certificate—


(i) The fundamental principles of the teaching-learning process;


(ii) Teaching methods and procedures; and


(iii) The instructor-student relationship.


(8) For flight instructors who conduct training in an FSTD, the following subjects specific to the device(s) for the airplane type:


(i) Proper operation of the controls and systems;


(ii) Proper operation of environmental and fault panels;


(iii) Data and motion limitations of simulation; and


(iv) The minimum airplane simulator equipment required by this part 121 or part 60 of this chapter for each maneuver and procedure completed in an FSTD.


(d) The transition ground training for flight instructors must include the following:


(1) The approved methods, procedures, and limitations for performing the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures applicable to the airplane to which the flight instructor is transitioning.


(2) For flight instructors who conduct training in an FSTD, the following subjects specific to the device(s) for the airplane type to which the flight instructor is transitioning:


(i) Proper operation of the controls and systems;


(ii) Proper operation of environmental and fault panels;


(iii) Data and motion limitations of simulation; and


(iv) The minimum airplane simulator equipment required by this part or part 60 of this chapter for each maneuver and procedure completed in an FSTD.


(e) The initial and transition flight training for flight instructors (airplane) must include the following:


(1) The safety measures for emergency situations that are likely to develop during instruction.


(2) The potential results of improper, untimely, or non-execution of safety measures during instruction.


(3) For pilot flight instructor (airplane)—


(i) Inflight training and practice in conducting flight instruction from the left and right pilot seats in the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures to ensure competence as an instructor; and


(ii) The safety measures to be taken from either pilot seat for emergency situations that are likely to develop during instruction.


(4) For flight engineer instructors (airplane), inflight training to ensure competence to perform assigned duties.


(f) The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section may be accomplished in full or in part inflight and in an FSTD, as appropriate.


(g) The initial and transition flight training for flight instructors who conduct training in an FSTD must include the following:


(1) Training and practice in the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures to ensure competence to conduct the flight instruction required by this part. This training and practice must be accomplished in full or in part in an FSTD.


(2) Training in the operation of FSTDs to ensure competence to conduct the flight instruction required by this part.


(h) Recurrent flight instructor ground training for flight instructors who conduct training in an FSTD must be completed every 12 calendar months and must include the subjects required in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 28471, 61 FR 30743, June 17, 1996; 62 FR 3739, Jan. 24, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 121-366, 78 FR 67838, Nov. 12, 2013; Amdt. 121-382, 85 FR 10922, Feb. 25, 2020; Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 121-392, 89 FR 51427, June 18, 2024]






