# ยง 792.40   What does this subpart prohibit?

This subpart prohibits the release of nonpublic records or the appearance of an NCUA employee to testify in legal proceedings except as provided in this subpart. Any person possessing nonpublic records may release them or permit their disclosure only as provided in this subpart. 


(a) *Duty of NCUA employees.* (1) If an NCUA employee is served with a subpoena requiring him or her to appear as a witness or produce records, the employee must promptly notify the Office of General Counsel. The General Counsel has the authority to instruct NCUA employees to refuse appearing as a witness or to withhold nonpublic records. The General Counsel may let an NCUA employee provide testimony, including expert or opinion testimony, if the General Counsel determines that the need for the testimony clearly outweighs contrary considerations. 


(2) If a court or other appropriate authority orders or demands expert or opinion testimony or testimony beyond authorized subjects contrary to the General Counsel's instructions, an NCUA employee must immediately notify the General Counsel of the order and respectfully decline to comply. An NCUA employee must decline to answer questions on the grounds that this subpart forbids such disclosure and should produce a copy of this subpart, request an opportunity to consult with the Office of General Counsel, and explain that providing such testimony without approval may expose him or her to disciplinary or other adverse action. 


(b) *Duty of persons who are not NCUA employees.* (1) If you are not an NCUA employee but have custody of nonpublic records and are served with a subpoena requiring you to appear as a witness or produce records, you must promptly notify the NCUA about the subpoena. Also, you must notify the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued of the contents of this subpart. Notice to the NCUA is made by sending a copy of the subpoena to the General Counsel of the NCUA, Office of General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428. After receiving notice, the NCUA may advise the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued that this subpart applies and, in addition, may intervene, attempt to have the subpoena quashed or withdrawn, or register appropriate objections. 


(2) After notifying the Office of General Counsel, you should respond to a subpoena by appearing at the time and place stated in the subpoena. Unless authorized by the General Counsel, you should decline to produce any records or give any testimony, basing your refusal on this subpart. If the issuing court or authority orders the disclosure of records or orders you to testify, you should continue to decline to produce records or testify and should advise the Office of General Counsel. 


(c) *Penalties.* Anyone who discloses nonpublic records or gives testimony related to those records, except as expressly authorized by the NCUA or as ordered by a federal court after NCUA has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 641 and other applicable laws. Also, former NCUA employees, in addition to the prohibition contained in this subpart, are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207. 




