# ยง 52.37   Number Portability Requirements for Wireless Providers.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to all providers of commercial mobile radio service (CMRS), as defined in 47 CFR 20.3, including resellers of wireless service.


(b) *Authentication of port-out requests.* A CMRS provider shall use secure methods to authenticate a customer that are reasonably designed to confirm the customer's identity before effectuating a port-out request, except to the extent otherwise required by 47 U.S.C. 345 (Safe Connections Act of 2022) or Part 64 Subpart II of this chapter. A CMRS provider shall regularly, but not less than annually, review and, as necessary, update its customer authentication methods to ensure that its authentication methods continue to be secure.


(c)-(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Employee Training.* A CMRS provider shall develop and implement training for employees to specifically address fraudulent port-out attempts, complaints, and remediation. Training shall include, at a minimum, how to identify fraudulent requests, how to recognize when a customer may be the victim of fraud, and how to direct potential victims and individuals making potentially fraudulent requests to employees specifically trained to handle such incidents.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) This section contains information-collection and/or recordkeeping requirements. Compliance with this section will not be required until this paragraph is removed or contains a compliance date.





---

[N] [88 FR 85813, Dec. 8, 2023]






