# ยง 764.454   Actions that an applicant must take when training is required.

(a) *Deadline for completion of training.* (1) If the Agency requires an applicant to complete training, at loan closing the applicant must agree in writing to complete all required training within 2 years.


(2) The Agency will grant a one-year extension to complete training if the applicant is unable to complete training within the 2-year period due to circumstances beyond the applicant's control.


(3) The Agency will grant an extension longer than one year for extraordinary circumstances as determined by the Agency.


(4) An applicant who does not complete the required training within the specified time-period will be ineligible for additional direct FLP loans until the training is completed.


(b) *Arranging training with a vendor.* The applicant must select and contact an Agency approved vendor and make all arrangements to begin training.


(c) *Payment of training fees.* (1) The applicant is responsible for the cost of training and must include training fees in the farm operating plan as a farm operating expense.


(2) The payment of training fees is an authorized use of OL funds.


(3) The Agency is not a party to fee or other agreements between the applicant and the vendor.


(d) *Evaluation of a vendor.* Upon completion of the required training, the applicant will complete an evaluation of the course and submit it to the vendor. The vendor will forward the completed evaluation forms to the Agency.




