# § 457.570   Disenrollment protections.

(a) The State must give enrollees reasonable notice of and an opportunity to pay past due premiums, copayments, coinsurance, deductibles or similar fees prior to disenrollment. 


(b) The disenrollment process must afford the enrollee an opportunity to show that the enrollee's household income has declined prior to disenrollment for non payment of cost-sharing charges, and in the event that such a showing indicates that the enrollee may have become eligible for Medicaid or for a lower level of cost sharing, the State must facilitate enrolling the child in Medicaid or adjust the child's cost-sharing category as appropriate. 


(c) The State must ensure that disenrollment policies, such as policies related to non-payment of premiums, do not present barriers to the timely determination of eligibility and enrollment in coverage of an eligible child in the appropriate insurance affordability program. A State may not—


(1) Impose a specified period of time that a CHIP eligible targeted low-income child or targeted low-income pregnant woman who has an unpaid premium or enrollment fee will not be permitted to reenroll for coverage in CHIP.


(2) Require the collection of past due premiums or enrollment fees as a condition of eligibility for reenrollment if an individual was terminated for failure to pay premiums.


(d) The State must provide the enrollee with an opportunity for an impartial review to address disenrollment from the program in accordance with § 457.1130(a)(3).



---

[N] [66 FR 2681, Jan. 11, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 42312, July 15, 2013; 89 FR 22876, Apr. 2, 2024]




