# § 133.174   Pasteurized process cheese food with fruits, vegetables, or meats.

(a) Pasteurized process cheese food with fruits, vegetables, or meats, or mixtures of these is the food which conforms to the definition and standard of identity, and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients, prescribed for pasteurized process cheese food by § 133.173, except that:


(1) Its milk fat content is not less than 22 percent.


(2) It contains one or any mixture of two or more of the following: Any properly prepared cooked, canned, or dried fruit; any properly prepared cooked, canned, or dried vegetable; any properly prepared cooked or canned meat.


(3) When the added fruits, vegetables, or meats contain fat, the method prescribed for the determination of fat by § 133.5(b) is not applicable.


(b) The name of a pasteurized process cheese food with fruits, vegetables, or meats is “Pasteurized process cheese food with ______”, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name or names of the fruits, vegetables, or meats used, in order of predominance by weight.


(c) If the only vegetable ingredient is pimento, and no meat or fruit ingredient is used, the weight of the solids of such pimentos is not less than 0.2 percent of the weight of the finished food. The name of this food is “Pimento pasteurized process cheese food” or “Pasteurized process pimento cheese food”.



---

[N] [42 FR 14366, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10095, Mar. 19, 1984; 58 FR 2894, Jan. 6, 1993]




