# § 30.5   Variances, exceptions, and use permits.

(a) Zoning ordinances or amendments thereto, for the zoning districts comprising the Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area may provide for the granting of variances and exceptions. 


(b) Zoning ordinances or amendments thereto for each of the districts established by the regulations in this part shall contain provisions advising applicants for variances and exceptions that, under section 2(f) of the Act of November 8, 1965, the authority of the Secretary to acquire “improved property” without the owner's consent would be reinstated (1) if such property is made the subject of a variance or exception to any applicable zoning ordinance that does not conform to any applicable standard contained in the regulations in this part; or (2) if such property is put to any use which does not conform to any applicable zoning ordinance approved by the Secretary. 


(c) The Shasta County Planning Commission, or private owners of “improved property” may consult the Secretary as to whether the grant of any proposed variance or exception would terminate the suspension of his authority to acquire the affected property without consent of the owner, and may request the approval of a variance or exception by the Secretary: *Provided,* The Secretary is notified in writing at least 30 days in advance of the hearing on the application for the variance or exception. The Secretary within 30 days after the receipt of a request for approval of a variance or exception, shall advise the owner or the Commission whether or not the intended use will subject the property to acquisition by condemnation. If more than 30 days is required by the Secretary for such determination, he shall so notify the owner or Commission, stating the additional time required and the reasons therefor. 


(d) The Secretary shall be given written notice of any variance granted under, or exception made to the application of, a zoning ordinance or amendment thereof approved by him. The Secretary shall be provided a copy of every use permit granted by the Shasta County Planning Commission authorizing any use or development of lands within the boundaries of the Whiskeytown Unit of the recreation area. 




