# § 333.4   Conversions from mutual to stock form.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to the conversion of insured mutual state savings banks to the stock form of ownership. It supplements the procedural and other requirements for such conversions in subpart I of part 303 of this chapter. This section also applies, to the extent appropriate, to the reorganization of insured mutual state savings banks to the mutual holding company form of ownership. As determined by the Board of Directors of the FDIC on a case-by-case basis, the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section do not apply to mutual-to-stock conversions of insured mutual state savings banks whose capital category under § 325.103 of this chapter or § 324.403, as applicable, is “undercapitalized”, “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized”. As determined by the Board of Directors of the FDIC on a case-by-case basis, the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section do not apply to mutual-to-stock conversions of insured mutual state savings banks whose capital category under § 324.403 of this chapter is “undercapitalized”, “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized”.


(b) *Definition of Eligible Depositor.* For purposes of this section, *eligible depositors* are depositors holding qualifying deposits at the bank as of a date designated in the bank's plan of conversion that is not less than one year prior to the date of adoption of the plan of conversion by the converting bank's board of directors/trustees. 


(c) *Requirements.* In addition to other requirements that may be imposed by the applicable state statutes and regulations and other federal statutes and regulations, including subpart I of part 303 of this chapter, an insured mutual state savings bank shall not convert to the stock form of ownership unless the following requirements are satisfied: 


(1) Eligible depositors shall have higher subscription rights than employee stock ownership plans; 


(2) The proposed conversion shall be approved by a vote of at least a majority of the bank's depositors and, as reasonably determined by the bank's directors or trustees, other stakeholders of the bank who are entitled to vote on the conversion, unless the applicable state law requires a higher percentage, in which case the higher percentage shall be used. Voting may be in person or by proxy; and 


(3) Management shall not use proxies executed outside the context of the proposed conversion to satisfy the voting requirement imposed in the previous paragraph.


(d) *Restriction on repurchase of stock.* An insured mutual state savings bank that has converted from the mutual to stock form of ownership may not repurchase its capital stock within one year following the date of its conversion to stock form, except that stock repurchases of no greater than 5% of the bank's outstanding capital stock may be repurchased during this one-year period where compelling and valid business reasons are established, to the satisfaction of the FDIC. Any stock repurchases shall be subject to the requirements of section 18(i)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(i)(1)). 


(e) *Stock benefit plan limitations.* The FDIC will presume that a stock option plan or management or employee stock benefit plan that does not conform with the applicable percentage limitations of the regulations issued by the Office of Thrift Supervision constitutes excessive insider benefits and thereby evidences a breach of the board of directors' or trustees' fiduciary responsibility. In addition, no converted insured mutual state savings bank shall, for one year from the date of the conversion, implement a stock option plan or management or employee stock benefit plan, other than a tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan, unless each of the following requirements is met: 


(1) Each of the plans was fully disclosed in the proxy solicitation and conversion stock offering materials; 


(2) All such plans are approved by a majority of the bank's stockholders, or in the case of a recently formed holding company, its stockholders, prior to implementation at a duly called meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, to be held no sooner than six months after the completion of the conversion; 


(3) In the case of a savings bank subsidiary of a mutual holding company, all such plans are approved by a majority of stockholders other than its parent mutual holding company prior to implementation at a duly called meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, to be held no sooner than six months following the stock issuance; 


(4) For stock option plans, stock options are granted at no lower than the market price at which the stock is trading at the time of grant; and 


(5) For management or employee stock benefit plans, no conversion stock is used to fund the plans. 



---

[N] [59 FR 61246, Nov. 30, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 44750, Aug. 20, 1998; 68 FR 50461, Aug. 21, 2003; 78 FR 55595, Sept. 10, 2013; 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018]




