# § 701.14   Change in official or senior executive officer in credit unions that are newly chartered or are in troubled condition.

(a) *Statement of scope and purpose.* Section 212 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1790a) sets forth conditions under which a credit union must notify NCUA in writing of any proposed changes in its board of directors, committee members or senior executive staff. The regulation only applies in cases of newly chartered credit unions and credit unions in troubled condition.


(b) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


(1) *Committee member* means any individual who serves as an official of the credit union in the capacity of a credit committee member or supervisory committee member.


(2) *Senior executive officer* means a credit union's chief executive officer (typically this individual holds the title of president or treasurer/manager), any assistant chief executive officer (e.g., any assistant president, any vice president or any assistant treasurer/manager) and the chief financial officer (controller). The term “senior executive officer” also includes employees of an entity, such as a consulting firm, hired to perform the functions of positions covered by the regulation.


(3) In the case of an insured natural person credit union, *Troubled condition* means:


(i) A federal credit union that has been assigned a 4 or 5 CAMELS composite rating by NCUA; or


(ii) A federally insured, state-chartered credit union that has been assigned a 4 or 5 CAMELS composite rating by either NCUA, after an on-site contact, or its state supervisor; or


(iii) A federal credit union or a federally insured, state-chartered credit union that has been granted assistance under section 208 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1788, that remains outstanding and unextinguished.


(4) In the case of an insured corporate credit union, *Troubled condition* means:


(i) A Federal credit union that has been assigned a 4 or 5 CAMELS rating by NCUA; or


(ii) A federally insured, state-chartered credit union that has been assigned a 4 or 5 CAMELS rating by either NCUA, after an on-site contact, or its state supervisor; or


(iii) A Federal credit union or a federally insured, state-chartered credit union that has been granted assistance under section 208 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1788, that remains outstanding and unextinguished. 


(c) *Procedures for Notice of Proposed Change in Official or Senior Executive Officer*—(1) *Prior notice requirement.* An insured credit union must give the NCUA written notice at least 30 days before the effective date of adding or replacing any member of its board of directors or committee member, employing any person as a senior executive officer of the credit union, or changing the responsibilities of a board member, committee member, or a senior executive officer so that the person would assume a different position if:


(i) The credit union has been chartered for less than 2 years; or


(ii) The credit union meets the definition of troubled condition in paragraph (b)(3) or (4) of this section.




(2) *Waiver of Prior Notice*—(i) *Waiver requests.* Parties may petition the appropriate Regional Director for a waiver of the prior notice required under this section. Waiver may be granted if it is found that delay could harm the credit union or the public interest.


(ii) *Automatic waiver.* In the case of the election of a new member of the board of directors or credit committee member at a meeting of the members of a federally insured credit union, the prior 30-day notice is automatically waived and the individual may immediately begin serving, provided that a complete notice is filed with the appropriate Regional Director within 48 hours of the election. If NCUA disapproves a director or credit committee member, the board of directors of the credit union may appoint its own alternate, to serve until the next annual meeting, contingent on NCUA approval.


(iii) *Effect on disapproval authority.* A waiver does not affect the authority of NCUA to issue a Notice of Disapproval within 30 days of the waiver or within 30 days of any subsequent required notice.








(3) *Filing procedures*—(i) *Where to file.* Notices will be filed with the appropriate Regional Director or, in the case of a corporate credit union or a ONES credit union under part 700 of this chapter, with the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision. All references to Regional Director will, for corporate credit unions and ONES credit unions under part 700 of this chapter, mean the Director of Office of National Examinations and Supervision. State-chartered federally insured credit unions will also file a copy of the notice with their state supervisor.


(ii) *Contents.* The notice must contain information about the competence, experience, character, or integrity of the individual on whose behalf the notice is submitted. The Regional Director or his or her designee may require additional information. The information submitted must include the identity, personal history, business background, and experience of the individual, including material business activities and affiliations during the past five years, and a description of any material pending legal or administrative proceedings in which the individual is a party and any criminal indictment or conviction of the individual by a state or federal court. Each individual on whose behalf the notice is filed must attest to the validity of the information filed. At the option of the individual, the information may be forwarded to the Regional Director by the individual; however, in such cases, the credit union must file a notice to that effect.


(iii) *Processing.* Within 15 calendar days after receiving the notice, the Regional Director will inform the credit union either that the notice is complete or that additional, specified information is needed and must be submitted within 30 calendar days. If the initial notice is complete, the Regional Director will issue a written decision of approval or disapproval to the individual and the credit union within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notice. If the initial notice is not complete, the Regional Director will issue a written decision within 30 calendar days of receipt of the original notice plus the amount of time the credit union takes to provide the requested additional information. If the additional information is not submitted within 30 calendar days of the Regional Director's request, the Regional Director may either disapprove the proposed individual or review the notice based on the information provided. If the credit union and the individual have submitted all requested information and the Regional Director has not issued a written decision within the applicable time period, the individual is approved. Regional Director communications may be done through electronic mail.






(d) *Commencement of Service.* A proposed director, committee member, or senior executive officer may begin service after the end of the 30-day period or any other additional period as provided under paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, unless the NCUA disapproves the notice before the end of the period. 


(e) *Notice of disapproval.* NCUA may disapprove the individual serving as a director, committee member or senior executive officer if it finds that the competence, experience, character, or integrity of the individual with respect to whom a notice under this section is submitted indicates that it would not be in the best interests of the members of the credit union or of the public to permit the individual to be employed by, or associated with, the credit union. The Notice of Disapproval will identify the reason(s) for the denial and advise the parties of their rights to request reconsideration from the Regional Director and/or file an appeal with the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in 12 CFR part 746, subpart B.







---

[N] [55 FR 43086, Oct. 26, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994; 60 FR 31911, June 19, 1995; 64 FR 28717, May 27, 1999; 66 FR 65624, Dec. 20, 2001; 69 FR 62562, Oct. 27, 2004; 75 FR 34620, June 18, 2010; 78 FR 4029, Jan. 18, 2013; 78 FR 32544, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 77564, Dec. 26, 2013; 82 FR 50291, Oct. 30, 2017; 86 FR 59288, Oct. 27, 2021; 87 FR 45009, July 27, 2022; 89 FR 79392, Sept. 30, 2024]




