# ยง 6.7   Notation voting.

(a) *General.* Notation voting consists of the circulation of physical or electronic written memoranda and voting sheets to each member of the Board simultaneously and the tabulation of submitted responses. Notation voting may be used only for routine, non-controversial, or administrative matters.


(b) *Administrative Responsibility.* The Secretary of the Board is responsible for:


(1) Distributing notation voting memoranda and voting sheets;


(2) Establishing deadlines for notation voting sheets to be completed and returned;


(3) Processing and tabulating all notation voting sheets; and


(4) Determining whether further action is required.


(c) *Veto of notation voting.* In view of the public policy for openness reflected in the Government in the Sunshine Act and in these bylaws, each Board member is authorized to veto the use of notation voting for the consideration of any matter. If a Board member vetoes the use of notation voting, the Secretary must notify all members of such action, and must promptly take action to place the particular matter on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Board meeting following the date of the veto, or to schedule a teleconference to consider the matter, as appropriate.


(d) *Disclosure of result.* The Secretary shall maintain all records pertaining to Board actions taken pursuant to the notation voting process, and shall make such records available for public inspection, consistent with the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.



---

[N] [77 FR 17334, Mar. 26, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 10014, Feb. 18, 2021]




