# ยง 12.204   Amended and supplemental pleadings.

(a) *Amendments to pleadings.* At any time before the parties have concluded their submission of proof, the Administrative Judge may allow amendments of the pleadings either upon written consent of the parties, or for good cause shown, provided however, that any pleading as amended shall not contain an allegation of damages in excess of $30,000. Any party may file a response to a motion to amend the pleadings within ten (10) days after the date of service upon that party of the motion.


(b) *Supplemental pleadings.* At any time before the parties have concluded their submissions of proof, and upon such terms as are just, the Administrative Judge may, upon motion by a party, permit a party to serve a supplemental pleading setting forth transactions, occurrences or events which have happened since the date of the pleadings sought to be supplemented and which are relevant to any of the issues in the proceeding: *Provided however,* that any pleading as supplemented may not contain an allegation of damages in excess of $30,000. Any party may file a response to a motion to supplement the pleadings within ten (10) days after the date of service upon that party of the motion.


(c) *Pleadings to conform to the evidence.* When issues not raised by the pleadings but reasonably within the scope of a summary decisional proceeding are tried with the express or implied consent of the parties, they shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 9637, Mar. 1, 1994; 86 FR 64356, Nov. 18, 2021]




