# § 5.657   Section 8 project-based assistance programs: Reexamination of family income and composition.

(a) *Applicability.* This section states requirements for reexamination of family income and composition in the Section 8 project-based assistance programs, except for the moderate rehabilitation and the project-based voucher programs. 


(b) *Regular reexamination.* The owner must conduct a reexamination and redetermination of family income and composition at least annually. 


(c) *Interim reexaminations.* (1) *Generally.* A family may request an interim reexamination of family income because of any changes since the last examination. The owner must conduct any interim reexamination within a reasonable time after the family request or when the owner becomes aware of an increase in family adjusted income under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. What qualifies as a “reasonable time” may vary based on the amount of time it takes to verify information, but such time generally should not exceed 30 days from the date a family reports changes in income to an owner.


(2) *Decreases in the family's annual adjusted income.* The owner may decline to conduct an interim reexamination of family income if the owner estimates that the family's adjusted income will decrease by an amount that is less than ten percent of the family's annual adjusted income (or a lower amount established by HUD through notice), or such lower threshold established by the owner.


(3) *Increases in the family's annual adjusted income.* The owner must conduct an interim reexamination of family income when the owner becomes aware that the family's adjusted income (as defined in § 5.611) has changed by an amount that the owner estimates will result in an increase of ten percent or more in annual adjusted income or such other amount established by HUD through notice, except:


(i) The owner may not consider any increase in the earned income of the family when estimating or calculating whether the family's adjusted income has increased, unless the family has previously received an interim reduction under paragraph (c)(1) of this section during the certification period; and


(ii) The owner may choose not to conduct an interim reexamination in the last three months of a certification period.


(4) *Policies on reporting changes in family income or composition.* The owner must adopt policies consistent with this paragraph (c), prescribing when and under what conditions the family must report a change in family income or composition.


(5) *Effective date of rent changes.* (i) If the family has reported a change in family income or composition in a timely manner according to the owner's policies, the owner must provide the family with 30 days advance notice of any rent increase, and such rent increase will be effective the first day of the month beginning after the end of that 30-day notice period. Rent decreases will be effective on the first day of the first month after the date of the actual change leading to the interim reexamination of family income.


(ii) If the family has failed to report a change in family income or composition in a timely manner according to the owner's policies, owners must implement any resulting rent increases retroactively to the first of the month following the date of the change leading to the interim reexamination of family income. Any resulting rent decrease must be implemented no later than the first rent period following completion of the reexamination. However, rent decreases may be applied retroactively at the discretion of the owner, in accordance with the owner's conditions as established in written policy, and subject to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.


(iii) A retroactive rent decrease may not be applied by the owner prior to the later of the first of the month following:


(A) The date of the change leading to the interim reexamination of family income; or


(B) The effective date of the family's most recent previous interim or annual reexamination (or initial examination if that was the family's last examination).


(d) *Streamlined income determination*—(1) *General.* An owner may elect to apply a streamlined income determination to families receiving fixed income as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(2) *Definition of “fixed income”.* For purposes of this section, “fixed income” means periodic payments at reasonably predictable levels from one or more of the following sources:


(i) Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Supplemental Disability Insurance.


(ii) Federal, state, local, or private pension plans.


(iii) Annuities or other retirement benefit programs, insurance policies, disability or death benefits, or other similar types of periodic receipts.


(iv) Any other source of income subject to adjustment by a verifiable COLA or current rate of interest.


(3) *Method of streamlined income determination.* Owners using the streamlined income determination must adjust a family's income according to the percentage of a family's unadjusted income that is from fixed income.


(i) When 90 percent or more of a family's unadjusted income consists of fixed income, owners using streamlined income determinations must apply a COLA or COLAs to the family's fixed-income sources, provided that the family certifies both that 90 percent or more of their unadjusted income is fixed income and that their sources of fixed income have not changed from the previous year. For non-fixed income, owners are not required to make adjustments pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) When less than 90 percent of a family's unadjusted income consists of fixed income, owners using streamlined income determinations must apply a COLA to each of the family's sources of fixed income. Owners must determine all other income pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) *COLA rate applied by owners.* Owners using streamlined income determinations must adjust a family's fixed income using a COLA or current interest rate that applies to each specific source of fixed income and is available from a public source or through tenant-provided, third-party-generated documentation. If no public verification or tenant-provided documentation is available, then the owner must obtain third-party verification of the income amounts in order to calculate the change in income for the source.


(5) *Triennial verification.* For any income determined pursuant to a streamlined income determination, an owner must obtain third-party verification of all income amounts every 3 years.


(e) *Other applicable requirements.* Reviews of family income under this section are subject to the provisions in Section 904 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3544), and any applicable privacy rules in subpart B of this part.


(f) *De minimis errors.* The owner will not be considered out of compliance with the requirements in this section due solely to de minimis errors in calculating family income but is still obligated to correct errors once the owner becomes aware of the errors. A de minimis error is an error where the owner determination of family income varies from the correct income determination by no more than $30 per month in monthly adjusted income ($360 in annual adjusted income) per family.


(1) The owner must take any corrective action necessary to credit or repay a family if the family has been overcharged for their rent as a result of the de minimis error in the income determination. Families will not be required to repay the owner in instances where the owner has miscalculated income resulting in a family being undercharged for rent or family share.


(2) HUD may revise the amount of de minimis error in this paragraph (f) through a rulemaking published in the _Federal Register_ for public comment.



---

[N] [65 FR 16720, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12371, Mar. 8, 2016; 82 FR 58340, Dec. 12, 2017; 85 FR 27139, May 7, 2020; 88 FR 9661, Feb. 14, 2023; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]




