# ยง 894.510   When may I decrease my type of enrollment?

(a) You may decrease your *type of enrollment:*

(1) During the annual open season;


(2) If you have a *QLE* that is consistent with decreasing your *type of enrollment*; or


(3) You are an *enrollee,* and under ยง 894.403(b) your FEDVIP premiums are not paid on a pre-tax basis, and your *family member* or *TEI family member* becomes eligible for dental or vision benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs. An *enrollee* must submit the request within 60 days after notification that your *family member* or *TEI family member is eligible for* dental or vision benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs.


(b) Decreasing your *type of enrollment* means going from:


(1) Self and family to self plus one;


(2) Self and family to self only; or


(3) Self plus one to self only.


(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, you may decrease your *type of enrollment* only during the period beginning 31 days before your QLE and ending 60 days after your QLE.


(2) You may make any of the following enrollment changes at any time beginning 31 days before a QLE listed in ยง 894.511(a):


(i) A decrease in your self plus one enrollment;


(ii) A decrease in your self and family enrollment to a self plus one enrollment, when you have only one remaining eligible *family member* or *TEI family member;* or


(iii) A decrease in your self and family enrollment to a self only enrollment, when you have no remaining eligible *family members* or *TEI family members.*

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, your change in enrollment is effective the first day of the first pay period following the one in which you make the change.


(2) If you are making an enrollment change described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, your change in enrollment is effective on the first day of the first pay period following the QLE on which the enrollment change is based.


(e) You may not change from one dental or vision plan or option to another, except as stated in ยง 894.507(b).



---

[N] [73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 20514, Apr. 20, 2010; 83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47748-47749, July 25, 2023]




