# ยง 404.2   What terms are used in this part?

The following terms are used in this part:


*Appraisal investigation* means an analysis of domestic, municipal, and industrial water supply problems, needs, and opportunities in the planning area, primarily using existing data. An appraisal investigation includes a preliminary assessment of alternatives to address the identified water supply problems and needs. The purpose of an appraisal investigation is to determine if there is at least one viable alternative that warrants a more detailed investigation through a feasibility study.


*Appraisal report* means the document, prepared by Reclamation, setting forth the findings and conclusions reached by Reclamation in its evaluation of a completed appraisal investigation. The purpose of the appraisal report is for Reclamation to provide a recommendation on whether a feasibility study should be initiated.


*Assistance* means the transfer of a thing of value to a non-Federal project sponsor to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by law. For purposes of this rule, assistance consists of funds provided by Reclamation through an assistance agreement (grant or cooperative agreement) and technical assistance performed by Reclamation, for the purpose of conducting an appraisal investigation or a feasibility study.


*Commissioner* means the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation.


*Feasibility report* means the document, prepared by Reclamation, setting forth the findings and conclusions of a completed feasibility study. The purpose of the feasibility report is to provide an Administration recommendation to Congress regarding whether the proposed rural water supply project should be authorized for construction.


*Feasibility study* means a detailed investigation requiring the acquisition of primary data, and an analysis of a reasonable range of alternatives, including a preferred alternative, to meet identified water supply problems, needs, and opportunities in the planning area. A feasibility study also includes an analysis of the technical and economic feasibility of the proposed project, the impact of the proposed project on the environment in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and other applicable environmental laws, and the financial capability of the non-Federal project sponsor to pay the non-Federal costs associated with constructing, operating, and maintaining the rural water supply project. The completed feasibility study will form the basis for the recommendation to Congress in the feasibility report regarding whether the proposed rural water supply project should be authorized for construction.


*Incidental noncommercial livestock watering* means the supply of water to pasture taps for the purpose of watering livestock, and other livestock watering uses that are incidental to the purpose of the project.


*Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe.


*Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group, or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Noncommercial irrigation of vegetation* means the supply of water to irrigate lawns, trees, small gardens, and similar vegetation of less than 1 acre.


*Non-Federal project sponsor* means a non-Federal project entity or entities meeting the eligibility criteria in ยง 404.6. A non-Federal project sponsor is also referred to as project sponsor, project sponsors, I, me, my, you, or your in this part.


*Program* means the Reclamation Rural Water Supply Program that is described in ยง 404.3.


*Reclamation* means the Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of the Interior.


*Reclamation states* means the states and areas referred to in 43 U.S.C. 391, as amended.


*Regional or watershed perspective* means an approach to rural water supply planning directed at meeting the needs of geographically dispersed localities across a region or a watershed that will take advantage of economies of scale and foster opportunities for partnerships. This approach also takes into account the interconnectedness of water and land resources, encourages the active participation of all interested groups, and uses the full spectrum of technical disciplines in activities and decision-making.


*Rural Water Supply Project,* or project, means:


(a) A project that is designed to serve a community or groups of communities, each of which has a current population of not more than 50,000 inhabitants, which may include Indian tribes and tribal organizations, dispersed home sites, or rural areas with domestic, municipal, and industrial water, including incidental noncommercial livestock watering and noncommercial irrigation of vegetation.


(b) A rural water supply project may include the following, or any combination of the following:


(1) The construction or installation of new rural water supply infrastructure and facilities;


(2) The improvement or upgrade of existing rural water supply infrastructure and facilities;


(3) The extension of existing rural water supply infrastructure and facilities to reach an increased service area; and


(4) The inter-connection of existing rural water supply infrastructure and facilities currently serving individual communities, dispersed homesites, rural areas, or tribes.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation.


*Tribal organization* means:


(a) The recognized governing body of an Indian tribe; and


(b) Any legally established organization of Indians that is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by the governing body, or democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by the organization.




