# § 1540.205   Procedures for security threat assessment.

(a) *Contents of security threat assessment.* The security threat assessment TSA conducts under this subpart includes an intelligence-related check and a final disposition.


(b) *Intelligence-related check.* To conduct an intelligence-related check, TSA completes the following procedures:


(1) Reviews the applicant information required in 49 CFR 1540.203.


(2) Searches domestic and international government databases to determine if an applicant meets the requirements of 49 CFR 1540.201(c) or to confirm an applicant's identity.


(3) Adjudicates the results in accordance with 49 CFR 1540.201(c).


(c) *Wants, warrants, deportable aliens.* If the searches listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section indicate that an applicant has an outstanding want or warrant, or is a deportable alien under the immigration laws of the United States, TSA sends the applicant's information to the appropriate law enforcement or immigration agency.


(d) *Final disposition.* Following completion of the procedures described in paragraph (b), the following procedures apply, as appropriate:


(1) TSA serves a Determination of No Security Threat on the applicant and operator if TSA determines that the applicant meets the security threat assessment standards in 49 CFR 1540.201(c).


(2) TSA serves an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment on the applicant, if TSA determines that the applicant does not meet the security threat assessment standards in 49 CFR 1540.201(c). The Initial Determination of Threat Assessment includes—


(i) A statement that TSA has determined that the applicant is suspected of posing or poses a security threat;


(ii) The basis for the determination;


(iii) Information about how the applicant may appeal the determination, as described in 49 CFR 1515.9; and


(iv) A statement that if the applicant chooses not to appeal TSA's determination within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination, or does not request an extension of time within 60 days of the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment in order to file an appeal, the Initial Determination becomes a Final Determination of Security Threat Assessment.


(3) TSA serves an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation on the applicant and the applicant's operator or other operator as approved by TSA, where appropriate, if TSA determines that the applicant does not meet the security threat assessment standards in 49 CFR 1540.201(c) and may pose an imminent threat to transportation or national security, or of terrorism. The Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation includes—


(i) A statement that TSA has determined that the applicant is suspected of posing or poses an imminent security threat;


(ii) The basis for the determination;


(iii) Information about how the applicant may appeal the determination, as described in 49 CFR 1515.5(h) or 1515.9(h), as applicable; and


(iv) A statement that if the applicant chooses not to appeal TSA's determination within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination, or does not request an extension of time within 60 days of the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment in order to file an appeal, the Initial Determination becomes a Final Determination of Security Threat Assessment.


(4) If the applicant does not appeal the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment or Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation, or if TSA does not grant the appeal, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the individual and the applicant.


(5) If the applicant appeals an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment, the procedures in 49 CFR 1515.5 or 1515.9 apply.




