# § 316.13   Marking of outside containers.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in part 325 of this subchapter, when any inspected and passed product for domestic commerce is moved from an official establishment, the outside container shall bear an official inspection legend as prescribed in part 312 of this subchapter. 


(b) When any product prepared in an official establishment for domestic commerce has been inspected and passed and is enclosed in a cloth or other wrapping, such wrapping shall bear the official inspection legend and official establishment number applied by the approved 2
1/2-inch rubber brand in the form prescribed in part 312 of this subchapter: *Provided,* That the rubber brand may be omitted if the official inspection legend and official establishment number on the product itself are clearly legible through the wrapping or the wrapping is labeled in accordance with part 317 of this subchapter: *Provided further,* That plain unprinted wrappings, such as stockinettes, cheesecloth, paper, and crinkled paper bags, for properly marked products, which are used solely to protect the product against soiling or excessive drying during transportation or storage, need not bear the official inspection legend. 


(c) The outside containers of products for export shall be marked in compliance with part 322 of this subchapter as well as this part. 


(d) Slack barrels used as outside containers of products shall have a cloth or paper top covering bearing the official inspection legend containing the official establishment number. At the time of removal of the covering, the official inspection legend shall be destroyed. 


(e) The outside containers of any product which has been inspected and passed for cooking, pork which has been refrigerated as provided in § 318.10(c) of this subchapter, and beef which has been inspected and passed for refrigeration shall bear the markings and tag prescribed in § 325.7(b) of this subchapter. 


(f) The outside containers of glands and organs which are not used for human food purposes, such as those described in § 325.19 of this subchapter, shall be plainly marked with the phrase “For pharmaceutical purposes,” “For organotherapeutic purposes” or “For technical purposes,” as appropriate, with no reference to inspection, and need not bear other markings otherwise required under the regulations in this subchapter. 


(g) Stencils, box dies, labels, and brands may be used on shipping containers of properly labeled products and on such immediate containers, of properly marked products, as tierces, barrels, drums, boxes, crates, and large-size fiber-board containers, without approval as provided for in § 317.3 of this subchapter: *Provided,* That the stencils, box dies, labels, and brands are not false or misleading and are approved by the inspector in charge. The official inspection legend for use with such markings shall be approved by the Administrator as provided for in part 317 of this subchapter. 


(h) The outside containers of livers prepared as described in § 314.10(b), shall be marked as prescribed in § 314.10(c) of this subchapter. 


(i) The outside containers of any equine product shall be marked to show the kinds of animals from which derived, when the products are sold, transported, offered for sale or transported, or received for transportation in commerce. 



---

[N] [35 FR 15577, Oct. 3, 1970, as amended at 43 FR 29268, July 7, 1978] 




