# 6103.302   Filing claims [Rule 302].

(a) *Form.* A claim shall be in writing and must be signed by the claimant or by the claimant's attorney or authorized representative. No particular form is required. The request should describe the basis for the claim and state the amount sought. The request should also include—


(1) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile machine number, and e-mail address, if available, of the claimant;


(2) The Government bill of lading or Government transportation request number;


(3) The claimant's bill number;


(4) The Government voucher number and date of payment;


(5) The Audit Division claim number;


(6) The agency for which the services were provided; and


(7) Any other identifying information.


(b) *When and where claims are filed.* A claim is filed when it is received by the Office of the Clerk of the Board during the Board's working hours. The Board will accept hand-delivered and mailed filings during business hours at 1800 M Street NW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036. The Clerk's telephone number is: (202) 606-8800. The Clerk's facsimile machine number is: (202) 606-0019. The Clerk's e-mail address for receipt of filings is: *cbca.efile@cbca.gov.* The Board's working hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on each day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.


(c) *Notice of docketing.* A claim will be docketed by the Office of the Clerk of the Board, and a written notice of docketing will be sent promptly to the claimant, the Director of the Audit Division, and the agency for which the services were provided. The notice of docketing will identify the judge to whom the claim has been assigned.


(d) *Service of copy.* The claimant shall send to the Audit Division and the agency identified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section copies of all material provided to the Board. All submissions to the Board by a claimant shall indicate that a copy has been provided to the Audit Division and the agency.



---

[N] [72 FR 36816, July 5, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 50928, Aug. 17, 2011; 85 FR 5335, Jan. 30, 2020]








