# § 363.169   What transactions can I conduct in a converted savings bond on which I am registered as the single owner, either coowner, the owner with a beneficiary, or an entity?

(a) *Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration.* By converting a definitive savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration to a book-entry bond, you have consented to the bond being treated as if it were originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect ®. The bond will be subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part. Any transaction available for a book-entry bond originally issued in the TreasuryDirect system is available for a converted bond registered in single owner or entity form of registration.


(b) *Savings bond of Series EE and Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.* By converting a definitive savings bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration to a book-entry bond, you have consented to the bond being treated as if it were originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect. The bond will be subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part. Any transaction available for a book-entry bond purchased in the TreasuryDirect system is available for a converted bond of Series EE and Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.


(c) *Savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.* The owner of a converted Series E bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration may make the following transactions:


(1) *Provide view rights to the beneficiary.* The owner may provide the beneficiary with the right to view the bond in the beneficiary's TreasuryDirect account. Once the right to view the bond is provided to the beneficiary, the owner may not revoke that right.


(2) *Transfer without change in registration.* The owner may transfer the bond without a change of registration to another account in the name of the owner.


(3) *Remove the beneficiary from the registration.* The owner may remove the beneficiary's name from the registration with the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be changed to the single owner form of registration. Once the transaction is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.


(4) *Transfer to the beneficiary or a third party with a change in registration.* The owner may remove his or her name from the registration and transfer the bond to the account of the beneficiary or a third party, with the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. Once the transfer is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.


(d) *Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration.* The converting coowner of a converted bond registered in the coowner form of registration may make the following transactions:


(1) *Provide view or transact rights to non-converting coowner.* The converting coowner may provide the non-converting coowner with the rights to view the bond or to view and redeem the bond through the non-converting coowner's TreasuryDirect account. Once either of these rights is provided to the non-converting coowner, the converting coowner may not revoke the right.


(2) *Transfer without change in registration.* The converting coowner may transfer the bond without a change in registration to another account in the name of the converting coowner. The bond may be transferred without the consent of the non-converting coowner, and will retain the coowner registration.


(3) *Remove a coowner from the registration.* The converting coowner (or the non-converting coowner, if the bond has been previously transferred to the account of the non-converting coowner) may remove the other coowner from the registration. The consent of the other coowner is required. The bond must reside in the account of the coowner who is requesting the transaction. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond's registration will be changed to the single owner form of registration. Once this transaction is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.


(4) *Transfer to non-converting coowner or a third party with a change in registration.* The converting coowner may remove his or her name from the registration and transfer the bond to either the account of the non-converting coowner or to the account of a third party. The consent of the non-converting coowner is required. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. Once the transfer is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.



---

[N] [70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]




