# § 60.5417c   What are the continuous monitoring requirements for my control devices?

You must meet the requirements of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance for each control device used to meet emission standards for your well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, process controller, pump, storage vessel, and process unit equipment designated facilities.


(a) For each control device used to comply with the emission reduction standard in § 60.5391c(b) for well designated facilities, § 60.5392c(a)(3) for centrifugal compressor designated facilities, § 60.5393c(d)(2) for reciprocating compressor designated facilities, § 60.5394c(b)(3) for your process controller designated facility in Alaska, § 60.5395c(b)(1) for your pumps designated facility, § 60.5396c(a)(2) for your storage vessel designated facility, or either § 60.5400c(f) or § 60.5401c(e) for your process equipment designated facility, you must install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system for each control device as specified in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section. If you install and operate a flare in accordance with § 60.5412c(a)(3), you are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. If you operate an enclosed combustion device or flare using an alternative test method approved under § 60.5412c(d), you must operate the control device as specified in paragraph (i) of this section instead of using the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section. You must keep records and report in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.


(b) You are exempt from the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section for the control devices listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) A boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with the primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel.


(2) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity equal to or greater than 44 megawatts.


(c) You must meet the specifications and requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Except for continuous parameter monitoring systems used to detect the presence of a pilot or combustion flame, each continuous parameter monitoring system must measure data values at least once every hour and record the values for each parameter as required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. Continuous parameter monitoring systems used to detect the presence of a pilot or combustion flame must record a reading at least once every 5 minutes.


(i) Each measured data value.


(ii) Each block average value for each 1-hour period or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period.


(2) You must prepare a monitoring plan that covers each control device for designated facilities within each company-defined area. The monitoring plan must address the monitoring system design, data collection, and the quality assurance and quality control elements outlined in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each continuous parameter monitoring system in accordance with the procedures in your monitoring plan. Heat sensing monitoring devices that indicate the continuous ignition of a pilot or combustion flame are exempt from the calibration, quality assurance and quality control requirements of this section.


(i) The performance criteria and design specifications for the monitoring system equipment, including the sample interface, detector signal analyzer, and data acquisition and calculations.


(ii) Sampling interface (*e.g.,* thermocouple) location such that the monitoring system will provide representative measurements.


(iii) Equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures.


(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with provisions in § 60.13(b).


(v) Ongoing recordkeeping procedures in accordance with provisions in § 60.7(f).


(3) You must conduct the continuous parameter monitoring system equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures specified in the monitoring plan at least once every 12 months.


(4) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous parameter monitoring system in accordance with the monitoring plan. Heat sensing monitoring devices that indicate the continuous ignition of a pilot or combustion flame are exempt from the calibration, quality assurance and quality control requirements of this section.


(d) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure the values of operating parameters appropriate for the control device as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable. Instead of complying with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section, you may install an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder that measures the concentration level of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the control device to demonstrate compliance with the applicable performance requirement specified in § 60.5412c(a)(1). The monitor must meet the requirements of Performance Specification 8 or 9 of appendix B to this part. You must install, calibrate, and maintain the monitor according to the manufacturer's specifications and the requirements in Performance Specification 8 or 9. You may also request approval from the Administrator to monitor different operating parameters than those specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section in accordance with § 60.13(i).


(1) For an enclosed combustion device that demonstrates during the performance test conducted under § 60.5413c(b) that combustion zone temperature is an accurate indicator of performance, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The monitoring device must have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever value is greater. You must install the temperature sensor at a location representative of the combustion zone temperature. You must also comply with the requirements of paragraphs (d)(8)(i), (iv), and (v) of this section.


(2) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature at two locations and have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever value is greater. You must install one temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet, and you must install a second temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet.


(3) For a boiler or process heater, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The temperature monitoring device must have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever value is greater. You must install the temperature sensor at a location representative of the combustion zone temperature.


(4) For a condenser, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The temperature monitoring device must have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever value is greater. You must install the temperature sensor at a location in the exhaust vent stream from the condenser.


(5) For a regenerative-type carbon adsorption system, a continuous monitoring system that meets the specifications in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section. You also must monitor the design carbon service life established using a design analysis performed as specified in § 60.5413c(c)(2).


(i) The continuous parameter monitoring system must measure and record the average total regeneration stream mass flow or volumetric flow during each carbon bed regeneration cycle. The flow sensor must have a measurement sensitivity of 5 percent of the flow rate or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater. You must check the mechanical connections for leakage at least every month, and you must perform a visual inspection at least every 3 months of all components of the flow continuous parameter monitoring system for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if your flow continuous parameter monitoring system is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor; and


(ii) The continuous parameter monitoring system must measure and record the average carbon bed temperature for the duration of the carbon bed steaming cycle and measure the actual carbon bed temperature after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing the cooling cycle. The temperature monitoring device must have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever value is greater.


(6) For a nonregenerative-type carbon adsorption system, you must monitor the design carbon replacement interval established using a design analysis performed as specified in § 60.5413c(c)(3). The design carbon replacement interval must be based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and source operating schedule.


(7) For a combustion control device whose model is tested under § 60.5413c(d), continuous monitoring systems as specified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (iv) and (vi) of this section and visible emission observations conducted as specified in paragraph (d)(8)(v) of this section.


(8) For an enclosed combustion device, other than those listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) and (7) of this section, or for a flare, continuous monitoring systems as specified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section and visible emission observations conducted as specified in paragraph (d)(8)(v) of this section. Additionally, for enclosed combustion devices or flares that are air-assisted or steam-assisted, the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraph (d)(8)(vi) of this section.


(i) Continuously monitor at least once every five minutes for the presence of a pilot flame or combustion flame using a device (including, but not limited to, a thermocouple, ultraviolet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of detecting that the pilot or combustion flame is present at all times. An alert must be sent to the nearest control room whenever the pilot or combustion flame is unlit. Continuous monitoring systems used for the presence of a pilot flame or combustion flame are not subject to a minimum accuracy requirement beyond being able to detect the presence or absence of a flame and are exempt from the calibration requirements of this section.


(ii) Except as provided in this paragraph (d)(8)(ii) and paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section, use one of the following methods to continuously determine the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare at standard conditions. If the only inlet gas stream to the enclosed combustion device or flare is associated gas from a well designated facility, the NHV of the inlet stream is considered to be sufficiently above the minimum required NHV for the inlet gas, and you are not required to conduct the continuous monitoring in this paragraph (d)(8)(ii) or the demonstration in paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section.


(A) A calorimeter with a minimum accuracy of ±2 percent of span.


(B) A gas chromatograph that meets the requirements in paragraphs (d)(8)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section.


(*1*) You must follow the procedure in Performance Specification 9 of appendix B to this part, except that a single daily mid-level calibration check can be used (rather than triplicate analysis), the multi-point calibration can be conducted quarterly (rather than monthly), and the sampling line temperature must be maintained at a minimum temperature of 60 °C (rather than 120 °C). Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.


(*2*) You must meet the accuracy requirements in Performance Specification 9 of appendix B to this part.


(*3*) You must use a calibration gas or multiple gases that includes the compounds that are reasonably expected to be present in the flare gas stream. If multiple calibration gases are necessary to cover all compounds, you must calibrate the instrument on all of the gases. You may only use the compounds used to calibrate the gas chromatograph in the calculation of the vent gas NHV.


(*4*) In lieu of the calibration gas described in paragraph (d)(8)(ii)(*B*)(*3*) of this section, you may use a surrogate calibration gas consisting of hydrogen and C1 through C5 normal hydrocarbons. All of the calibration gases may be combined in one cylinder. If multiple calibration gases are necessary to cover all compounds, you must calibrate the instrument on all of the gases. Use the response factor for the nearest normal hydrocarbon (*i.e.,* n-alkane) in the calibration mixture to quantify unknown components detected in the analysis. Use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify unknown components detected in the analysis that elute after n-pentane.


(*5*) To determine the NHV of the vent gas, determine the product of the volume fraction of the individual component in the vent gas and the net heating value of that individual component. Sum the products for all components in the vent gas to determine the NHV for the vent gas. For the net heating value of each individual component, use the net heating value at 25 °C and 1 atmosphere.


(C) A mass spectrometer that meets the requirements in paragraphs (d)(8)(ii)(C)(*1*) through (*6*) of this section.


(*1*) You must meet applicable requirements in Performance Specification 9 of appendix B of this part for continuous monitoring system acceptance including, but not limited to, performing an initial multi-point calibration check at three concentrations following the procedure in Section 10.1. A single daily mid-level calibration check can be used (rather than triplicate analysis), the multi-point calibration can be conducted quarterly (rather than monthly), and the sampling line temperature must be maintained at a minimum temperature of 60 °C (rather than 120 °C). Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to NIST standards.


(*2*) The average instrument calibration error (CE) for each calibration compound at any calibration concentration must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for each component in the calibration blend must be calculated using the following equation:


(*3*) You must use a calibration gas or multiple gases that includes the compounds that are reasonably expected to be present in the flare gas stream. If multiple calibration gases are necessary to cover all compounds, you must calibrate the instrument on all of the gases. You may only use the compounds used to calibrate the mass spectrometer in the calculation of the vent gas NHV.


(*4*) In lieu of the calibration gas described in paragraph (d)(8)(ii)(C)(*3*) of this section, you may use a surrogate calibration gas consisting of hydrogen and C1 through C5 normal hydrocarbons. All of the calibration gases may be combined in one cylinder. If multiple calibration gases are necessary to cover all compounds, you must calibrate the instrument on all of the gases. For unknown gas components that have similar analytical mass fragments to calibration compounds, you may report the unknowns as an increase in the overlapped calibration gas compound. For unknown compounds that produce mass fragments that do not overlap calibration compounds, you may use the response factor for the nearest molecular weight hydrocarbon in the calibration mix to quantify the unknown component. You may use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify any unknown components detected with a higher molecular weight than n-pentane.


(*5*) You must perform an initial calibration to identify mass fragment overlap and response factors for the target compounds.


(*6*) To determine the NHV of the vent gas, determine the product of the volume fraction of the individual component in the vent gas and the net heating value of that individual component. Sum the products for all components in the vent gas to determine the NHV for the vent gas. For the net heating value of each individual component, use the net heating value at 25 °C and 1 atmosphere.


(D) A grab sampling system capable of collecting an evacuated canister sample for subsequent compositional analysis at least once every eight hours. Subsequent compositional analysis of the samples must be performed according to ASTM D1945-14 (R2019) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). To determine the NHV of the vent gas, determine the product of the volume fraction of the individual component in the vent gas and the net heating value of that individual component. Sum the products for all components in the vent gas to determine the NHV for the vent gas. For the net heating value of each individual component, use the net heating value at 25 °C and 1 atmosphere.


(iii) For an unassisted or pressure-assisted flare or enclosed combustion device, if you demonstrate according to the methods described in paragraphs (d)(8)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section that the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare consistently exceeds the applicable operating limit specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(vii)(B) or (C), continuous monitoring of the NHV is not required, but you must conduct the ongoing sampling in paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(G) of this section. For flares and enclosed combustion devices that use only perimeter assist air and do not use steam assist or premix assist air, if you demonstrate according to the methods described in paragraphs (d)(8)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section that the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare consistently exceeds 300 Btu/scf, continuous monitoring of the NHV is not required, but you must conduct the ongoing sampling in paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(G) of this section. For an unassisted or pressure-assisted flare or enclosed combustion device, in lieu of conducting the demonstration outlined in paragraphs (d)(8)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section, you may conduct the demonstration outlined in paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(H) of this section, but you must still comply with paragraphs (d)(8)(iii)(E) through (G) of this section.


(A) Continuously monitor or collect a sample of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare twice daily to determine the average NHV of the gas stream for 14 consecutive operating days. If you do not continuously monitor the NHV, the minimum time of collection for each individual sample be at least one hour. Consecutive samples must be separated by at least 6 hours. If inlet gas flow is intermittent such that there are not at least 28 samples over the 14 operating day period, you must continue to collect samples of the inlet gas beyond the 14 operating day period until you collect a minimum of 28 samples.


(B) If you collect samples twice per day, count the number of samples where the NHV value is less than 1.2 times the applicable operating limit specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(vii)(B) or (C), or this paragraph (d)(8)(iii) (*i.e.,* values that are less than 240, 360, or 960 Btu/scf, as applicable) during the sample collection period in paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(A) of this section.


(C) If you continuously sample the inlet stream for 14 days, count the number of hourly average NHV values that are less than the applicable operating limit specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(vii)(B) or (C), or this paragraph (d)(8)(iii) (*i.e.,* values that are less than 200, 300, or 800 Btu/scf, as applicable), during the sample collection period in paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(A) of this section.


(D) If there are no samples counted under paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(B) of this section or there are no hourly values counted under paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(C) of this section, the gas stream is considered to consistently exceed the applicable NHV operating limit and on-going continuous monitoring is not required.


(E) If process operations are revised that could impact the NHV of the gas sent to the enclosed combustion device or flare, such as the removal or addition of process equipment, and at any time the Administrator requires, re-evaluation of the gas stream must be performed according to paragraphs (d)(8)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section to ensure the gas stream still consistently exceeds the applicable operating limit specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(vii)(B) or (C), or this paragraph (d)(8)(iii).


(F) When collecting samples under paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, the owner or operator must account for any sources of inert gases that can be sent to the enclosed combustion device or flare (*e.g.,* streams from compressors in acid gas service, streams from enhanced oil recovery facilities). The report in § 60.5420c(b)(10)(v)(I) and the records of the demonstration in § 60.5420c(c)(10)(vi) must note whether the enclosed combustion device or flare has the potential to receive inert gases, and if so, whether the sampling included periods where the highest percentage of inert gases were sent to the enclosed combustion device or flare. If the introduction of inerts is intermittent and does not occur during the initial demonstration, the introduction of inerts will be considered a revision to process operations that triggers a re-evaluation under paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(E) of this section. If conditions at the site did not allow sampling during periods where the introduction of inert gases was at the highest percentage possible, increasing the percentage of inerts will be considered a revision to process operations that triggers a re-evaluation under paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(E) of this section.


(G) You must collect three samples of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare at least once every 5 years. The minimum time of collection for each individual sample must be at least one hour. The samples must be taken during the period with the lowest expected NHV (*i.e.,* the period with the highest percentage of inerts). The first set of periodic samples must be taken, or continuous monitoring commenced, no later than 60 calendar months following the last sample taken under paragraph (d)(8)(iii)(A) of this section. Subsequent periodic samples must be taken, or continuous monitoring commenced, no later than 60 calendar months following the previous sample. If any sample has an NHV value less than 1.2 times the applicable operating limit specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(vii)(B) or (C), or this paragraph (d)(8)(iii) (*i.e.,* values that are less than 240, 360, or 960 Btu/scf, as applicable), you must conduct the monitoring required by paragraph (d)(8)(ii) of this section.


(H) You may request an alternative test method under § 60.5412c(d) to demonstrate that the flare or enclosed combustion device reduces methane and VOC in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater. You must use an alternative test method that demonstrates compliance with the combustion efficiency limit; you may not use an alternative test method that demonstrates compliance with NHV_cz_ and NHV_dil_ in lieu of measuring combustion efficiency directly. You must measure data values at the frequency specified in the alternative test method and conduct the quality assurance and quality control requirements outlined in the alternative test method at the frequency outlined in the alternative test method. You must monitor the combustion efficiency of the flare continuously for 14 days. If there are no values of the combustion efficiency measured by the alternative test method that are less than 95.0 percent, the gas stream is considered to consistently exceed the applicable NHV operating limit, and you are not required to continuously monitor the NHV of the inlet gas to the flare or enclosed combustion device.


(iv) Except as noted in paragraphs (d)(8)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section, a continuous parameter monitoring system for measuring the flow of gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare. You may use direct flow meters or other parameter monitoring systems combined with engineering calculations, such as inlet line pressure, line size, and burner nozzle dimensions, to satisfy this requirement. The monitoring instrument must have an accuracy of ±10 percent or better at the maximum expected flow rate.


(A) Pressure-assisted flares and pressure-assisted enclosed combustion devices are not required to have a continuous parameter monitoring system for measuring the inlet flow of gas to the device if you install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.


(B) Unassisted flares are not required to have a continuous parameter monitoring system for measuring the inlet flow of gas to the device if you meet the conditions in paragraphs (d)(8)(iv)(B)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) You must demonstrate, based on the maximum potential pressure of units manifolded to the flare and applicable engineering calculations for the manifolded closed vent system, that the maximum flow rate to the flare cannot cause the flare tip velocity to exceed 18.3 meter/second (60 feet/second). If there are changes to the process or control device that can be reasonably expected to impact the maximum flow rate to the flare, you must conduct a new demonstration to determine whether the maximum flow rate to the flare is less than 18.3 meter/second (60 feet/second).


(*2*) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.


(C) Unassisted enclosed combustion devices are not required to have a continuous parameter monitoring system for measuring the inlet flow of gas to the device if you meet the conditions in paragraphs (d)(8)(iv)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) You must demonstrate, based on the maximum potential pressure of units manifolded to the enclosed combustion device and applicable engineering calculations for the manifolded closed vent system, that the maximum flow rate to the enclosed combustion device cannot cause the maximum inlet flow rate established in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section to be exceeded. If there are changes to the process or control device that can be reasonably expected to impact the maximum flow rate to the enclosed combustion device, you must conduct a new demonstration to determine whether the maximum flow rate to the enclosed combustor is less than the maximum inlet flow rate established in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(*2*) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.


(D) Air-assisted flares or enclosed combustion devices that use only perimeter assist air and have no assist steam or premix assist air are not required to have a continuous parameter monitoring system for measuring the inlet flow of gas to the device or the flow of assist air if you meet the conditions in paragraphs (d)(8)(iv)(D)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section. For these flares and enclosed combustion devices, NHV_cz_ is assumed to be equal to the vent gas NHV.


(*1*) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.


(*2*) You must demonstrate, based on the maximum flow rate of perimeter assist air to the enclosed combustion device or flare and applicable engineering calculations, that the NHV_dil_ can never be less than the minimum required NHV_dil._ The demonstration must clearly document why the maximum flow rate of perimeter assist air will never exceed the rate used in the demonstration. You must use the minimum flow rate of vent gas allowed by your backpressure regulator valve and the minimum expected value of the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare based on previous sampling results or process knowledge of the streams sent to the enclosed combustion device or flare in your demonstration. You must update this demonstration if there are changes to the backpressure regulator valve, the backpressure regulator valve set point, or the maximum flow rate of perimeter assist air. You must also update this demonstration if any sampling results of the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare under paragraphs (d)(8)(ii) or (iii) of this section are lower than the NHV vent gas value used in your demonstration.


(E) Air-assisted flares or enclosed combustion devices that use only premix assist air and have no assist steam or perimeter assist air are not required to have a continuous parameter monitoring system for measuring the inlet flow of gas to the device or the flow of assist air if you meet the conditions in paragraphs (d)(8)(iv)(E)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.


(*2*) You must demonstrate, based on the maximum flow rate of premix assist air to the enclosed combustion device or flare and applicable engineering calculations, that the NHV_cz_ will never be less than the minimum required NHV_cz._ The demonstration must clearly document why the maximum flow rate of premix assist air will never exceed the rate used in the demonstration. You must use the minimum flow rate of vent gas allowed by your backpressure regulator valve in and the minimum expected value of the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare based on previous sampling results or process knowledge of the streams sent to the enclosed combustion device or flare in your demonstration. You must update this demonstration if there are changes to the backpressure regulator valve, the backpressure regulator valve set point, or the maximum flow rate of premix assist air. You must also update this demonstration if any sampling results of the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare under paragraphs (d)(8)(ii) or (iii) of this section are lower than the NHV vent gas value used in your demonstration.


(v) Conduct inspections monthly and at other times as requested by the Administrator to monitor for visible emissions from the combustion device using section 11 of Method 22 of appendix A to this part or conduct visible emissions monitoring according to paragraph (h) of this section. The observation period shall be 15 minutes or once the amount of time visible emissions is present has exceeded 1 minute. Devices must be operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period.


(vi) If you use a flare or enclosed combustion device that is air-assisted or steam-assisted, you must also meet the following requirements.


(A) Except as allowed by paragraph (d)(8)(iv)(E) of this section, you must monitor and calculate NHV_cz_ as specified in § 63.670(m) of this chapter. Additionally, for flares and enclosed combustion devices that use only perimeter assist air and do not use steam assist or premix assist air, the NHV_cz_ is equal to the vent gas NHV. When NHV_cz_ is equal to the vent gas NHV, you are not required to continuously monitor NHV_cz_ if you meet the requirements in paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section.


(B) Except as allowed by paragraph (d)(8)(iv)(D) of this section, for each flare using perimeter assist air, you must also monitor and calculate NHV_dil_ as specified in § 63.670(n) of this chapter. If the only assist air provided to the flare or enclosed combustion control device is perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam at the flare tip and the effective diameter is 9 inches or greater, you are only required to comply with the NHV_cz_ limit specified in paragraph (f)(8)(vi)(A) of this section.


(C) Except as allowed by paragraph (d)(8)(iv) of this section, you must monitor the flare vent gas and assist gas as specified in § 63.670(i) of this chapter.


(D) You must determine the flare vent gas net heating value as specified in § 63.670(l) of this chapter using one of the methods specified in paragraph (d)(8)(ii) of this section. Where the phrase “petroleum refinery” is used, for purposes of this subpart, it will refer to flares controlling an affected facility under this subpart. If you are not required to continuously monitor the NHV of the inlet gas because you have demonstrated that it consistently exceeds the applicable operating limit as provided in paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section, you must use the lowest net heating value measured in the sampling program in paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section for the calculations performed in paragraphs (d)(8)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section. You must update this value if a subsequent sampling result of the NHV of the inlet gas to the enclosed combustion device or flare under paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section is lower than the NHV vent gas value used in your calculations.


(e) Calculate the value of the applicable monitored parameter in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You must calculate the daily average value for condenser outlet temperature for each operating day, using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.


(2) You must use the 5-minute readings from the heat sensing devices to assess the presence of a pilot or combustion flame.


(3) You must use the regeneration cycle time (*i.e.,* duration of the carbon bed steaming cycle) for each regenerative-type carbon adsorption system to calculate the average parameter to compare with the maximum steam mass flow or volumetric flow during each carbon bed regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature during the steaming cycle. The carbon bed temperature after the regeneration cycle should not be averaged; you must use the carbon bed temperature measured within 15 minutes of completing the cooling cycle to compare with the minimum carbon bed temperature after the regeneration cycle.


(4) You must use 15-minute blocks to calculate NHV_cz_ and NHV_dil_.


(5) For all operating parameters others than those described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, you must calculate the 3-hour rolling average of each monitored parameter. For each operating hour, calculate the hourly value of the operating parameter from your continuous monitoring system. Average the three most recent hours of data to determine the 3-hour average. Determine the 3-hour rolling average by recalculating the 3-hour average each hour.


(f) For each operating parameter monitor installed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, you must comply with paragraph (f)(1) of this section for all control devices. When condensers are installed, you must also comply with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(1) You must establish a minimum operating parameter value or a maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate for the control device, to define the conditions at which the control device must be operated to continuously achieve the applicable performance requirements of § 60.5412c(a)(1) or (2). You must establish each minimum or maximum operating parameter value as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) If you conduct performance tests in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413c(b) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 60.5412c(a)(1) or (2), then you must establish the minimum operating parameter value or the maximum operating parameter value based on values measured during the performance test and supplemented, as necessary, by a condenser or carbon adsorption system design analysis or control device manufacturer recommendations or a combination of both. If you operate an enclosed combustion device, you must establish the maximum inlet flow rate based on values measured during the performance test and you may establish the minimum inlet flow rate based on control device manufacturer recommendations.


(ii) If you use a condenser or carbon adsorption system design analysis in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413c(c) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 60.5412c(a)(2), then you must establish the minimum operating parameter value or the maximum operating parameter value based on the design analysis and supplemented, as necessary, by the manufacturer's recommendations.


(iii) If you operate a control device where the performance test requirement was met under § 60.5413c(d) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 60.5412c(a)(1), then your control device inlet gas flow rate must be equal to or greater than the minimum inlet gas flow rate and equal to or less than the maximum inlet gas flow rate determined by the manufacturer.


(iv) If you operate an enclosed combustion device where the combustion zone temperature is not an indicator of destruction efficiency or a control device where the performance test requirement was met under § 60.5413c(d), you must maintain the NHV of the gas sent to the enclosed combustion device, the NHV_cz_, and the NHV_dil_ above the applicable limits specified in § 60.5412c(a)(1)(iv)(A) through (D).


(2) If you use a condenser as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section, you must establish a condenser performance curve showing the relationship between condenser outlet temperature and condenser control efficiency, according to the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) If you conduct a performance test in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413c(b) to demonstrate that the condenser achieves the applicable performance requirements of § 60.5412c(a)(2), then the condenser performance curve must be based on values measured during the performance test and supplemented as necessary by control device design analysis, or control device manufacturer's recommendations, or a combination or both.


(ii) If you use a control device design analysis in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5413c(c)(1) to demonstrate that the condenser achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 60.5412c(a)(2), then the condenser performance curve must be based on the condenser design analysis and supplemented, as necessary, by the control device manufacturer's recommendations.


(g) A deviation for a control device is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section being met. If you monitor multiple operating parameters for the same control device during the same operating day and more than one of these operating parameters meets a deviation criterion specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section, then a single excursion is determined to have occurred for the control device for that operating day.


(1) A deviation occurs when the average value of a monitored operating parameter determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (and, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit) established in paragraph (f)(1) of this section; for flares, when the average value of a monitored operating parameter determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section is above the limits specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(vii)(B); or when the heat sensing device indicates that there is no pilot or combustion flame present for any time period. If you use a backpressure regulator valve to maintain the inlet gas flow to an enclosed combustion device or flare above the minimum value, a deviation occurs if the annual inspection finds that the backpressure regulator valve set point is not set correctly or indicates that the backpressure regulator valve does not fully close when not in the open position.


(2) If you are subject to § 60.5412c(a)(2), a deviation occurs when the 365-day average condenser efficiency calculated according to the requirements specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(ix)(D) is less than 95.0 percent.


(3) If you are subject to § 60.5412c(a)(2) and you have less than 365 days of data, a deviation occurs when the average condenser efficiency calculated according to the procedures specified in § 60.5415c(e)(1)(ix)(D)(*1*) or (*2*) is less than 95.0 percent.


(4) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.


(5) If the closed vent system contains one or more bypass devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from entering the control device, a deviation occurs when the requirements of paragraph (g)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section are met.


(i) For each bypass line subject to § 60.5411c(a)(4)(i)(A), the flow indicator indicates that flow has been detected and that the stream has been diverted away from the control device to the atmosphere.


(ii) For each bypass line subject to § 60.5411c(a)(4)(i)(B), if the seal or closure mechanism has been broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, the key for the lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, or the car-seal has broken.


(6) For a combustion control device whose model is tested under § 60.5413c(d), a deviation occurs when the conditions of paragraphs (g)(4), (g)(5), or (g)(6)(i) through (vi) of this section are met.


(i) The hourly inlet gas flow rate is less than the minimum inlet gas flow rate or greater than the maximum inlet gas flow rate determined by the manufacturer. If you use a backpressure regulator valve to maintain the inlet gas flow above the minimum value, a deviation occurs if the annual inspection finds that the backpressure regulator valve set point is not set correctly or indicates that the backpressure regulator valve does not fully close when not in the open position.


(ii) Results of the monthly visible emissions test conducted under § 60.5413c(e)(3) or monitoring under paragraph (h) of this section indicate visible emissions exceed 1 minute in any 15-minute period.


(iii) There is no indication of the presence of a pilot or combustion flame for any 5-minute time period.


(iv) The control device is not maintained in a leak free condition.


(v) The control device is not operated in accordance with the manufacturer's written operating instructions, procedures and maintenance schedule.


(vi) The NHV of the vent gas, the NHV_cz_, or the NHV_dil_ is below the applicable limit specified in § 60.5412c(a)(1)(iv).


(7) For an enclosed combustion device or flare subject to paragraph (d)(8) of this section, a deviation occurs when any of the conditions described by paragraphs (g)(1), (4), or (5) of this section are met or when the results of the visible emissions monitoring conducted under paragraph (d)(8)(v) or (h) of this section exceed 1 minute in any 15-minute period.


(h) For enclosed combustion devices and flares, in lieu of conducting a visible emissions observation using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part, you may use a video surveillance camera to continuously monitor and record the flare flame according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) You must provide real-time high-definition video surveillance camera output (*i.e.,* at least 720p) at a frame rate of at least 15 frames per second to the control room or other continuously manned location where the camera images may be viewed at the same resolution at any time.


(2) You must record at least one frame every 15 seconds with date and time stamp.


(3) The camera must be located at a reasonable distance above the flare flame at an angle suitable for visual emissions observations. The position of the camera should be such that the sun is not in the field of view.


(4) The camera must be located no more than 400 m (0.25 miles) from the emission source.


(5) Operators must look at the video feed at least once daily for an observation period of at least 1 minute to determine if visible emissions are present. If visible emissions are present during a daily observation, the operator must observe the video feed for 15 minutes or until the amount of time visible emissions is present has exceeded 1 minute, whichever time period is less.


(6) Enclosed combustion devices and flares must be operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period.


(i) If you use an enclosed combustion device or flare using an alternative test method approved under § 60.5412c(d), you must comply with paragraphs (i)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) You must measure data values at the frequency specified in the alternative test method.


(2) You must prepare a monitoring plan that covers each control device for designated facilities within each company-defined area. The monitoring plan must address the monitoring system design, data collection, and the quality assurance and quality control elements outlined in the alternative test method and in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must operate and maintain each monitoring system in accordance with the procedures in your monitoring plan.


(i) The performance criteria and design specifications for the monitoring system equipment.


(ii) Location of monitoring system in relation to the monitored control device.


(iii) Ongoing reporting and recordkeeping procedures.


(3) You must conduct the quality assurance and quality control requirements outlined in the alternative test method at the frequency outlined in the alternative test method.


(4) If required by § 60.5412c(d)(4), you must conduct the inspections required by paragraph (d)(8)(v) of this section.


(5) If required by § 60.5412c(d)(5), you must install the pilot or combustion flame monitoring system required by paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section.


(6) A deviation for the control device is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) through (v) of this section being met.


(i) A deviation occurs if the combustion efficiency is less than 95.0 percent, the combustion zone NHV is less than 270 Btu/scf, or the NHV dilution parameter is less than 22 Btu/sqft.


(ii) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.


(iii) A deviation occurs when any of the conditions described by paragraph (g)(5) of this section are met.


(iv) If required by paragraph (i)(4) of this section to conduct visible emissions inspections, a deviation occurs when the results of the visible emissions monitoring conducted under paragraph (d)(8)(v) or (h) of this section exceeds 1 minute in any 15-minute period.


(v) If required by paragraph (i)(5) of this section to install a pilot or combustion flame monitoring system, a deviation occurs when there is no indication of the presence of a pilot or combustion flame for any 5-minute period.


(j) You must submit annual reports for control devices as required in § 60.5420c(b)(1) and (10). You must maintain records as specified in § 60.5420c(c)(10).



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62934, Aug. 1, 2024]




