# § 37.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*Administration* means management actions performed on *Certificate Systems* by a person in a *Trusted Role.*

*Birth certificate* means the record related to a birth that is permanently stored either electronically or physically at the State Office of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency in a registrant's State of birth.


*Card* means either a driver's license or identification card issued by the State Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) or equivalent State office.


*Certificate authority* means an issuer of *digital certificates* that are used to certify the identity of parties in a digital transaction.


*Certificate management system* means a system used by a State or *delegated third party* to process, approve issuance of, or store *digital certificates* or *digital certificate* status information, including the database, database server, and storage.


*Certificate policy* means the set of rules and documents that forms a State's governance framework in which *digital certificates, certificate systems,* and cryptographic keys are created, issued, managed, and used.


*Certificate system* means the system used by a State or *delegated third party* to provide services related to *public key infrastructure* for digital identities.


*Certification* means an assertion by the State to the Department of Homeland Security that the State has met the requirements of this part.


*Certified copy of a birth certificate* means a copy of the whole or part of a birth certificate registered with the State that the State considers to be the same as the original birth certificate on file with the State Office of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency in a registrant's State of birth.


*Covered employees* means Department of Motor Vehicles employees or contractors who are involved in the manufacture or production of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards, or who have the ability to affect the identity information that appears on the driver's license or identification card.


*Critical security event* means detection of an event, a set of circumstances, or anomalous activity that could lead to a circumvention of a *zone's* security controls or a compromise of a *certificate system's* integrity, including excessive login attempts, attempts to access prohibited resources, *Denial of service* or *Distributed denial of service* attacks, attacker reconnaissance, excessive traffic at unusual hours, signs of unauthorized access, system intrusion, or an actual compromise of component integrity.


*Data verification* means checking the validity of data contained in source documents presented under this regulation.


*Delegated third party* means a natural person or legal entity that is not the state and that operates any part of a *certificate system* under the State's legal authority.


*Delegated third party system* means any part of a *certificate system* used by a *delegated third party* while performing the functions delegated to it by the State.


*Denial of service* means the prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations.


*Determination* means a decision by the Department of Homeland Security that a State has or has not met the requirements of this part and that Federal agencies may or may not accept the driver's licenses and identification cards issued by the State for official purposes.


*DHS* means the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.


*Digital certificates* identify the parties involved in an electronic transaction, and contain information necessary to validate *Digital signatures.*

*Digital photograph* means a digital image of the face of the holder of the driver's license or identification card.


*Digital signatures* are mathematical algorithms used to validate the authenticity and integrity of a message.


*Distributed denial of service* means a *denial of service* attack where numerous hosts perform the attack.


*DMV* means the Department of Motor Vehicles or any State Government entity that issues driver's licenses and identification cards, or an office with equivalent function for issuing driver's licenses and identification cards.


*Document authentication* means determining that the source document presented under these regulations is genuine and has not been altered.


*Domestic violence and dating violence* have the meanings given the terms in section 3, Universal definitions and grant provisions, of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Pub. L. 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960, 2964, Jan. 5, 2006); codified at section 40002, Definitions and grant provisions, 42 U.S.C. 13925, or State laws addressing domestic and dating violence.


*Driver's license* means a motor vehicle operator's license, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 30301.


*Duplicate* means a driver's license or identification card issued subsequent to the original document that bears the same information and expiration date as the original document and that is reissued at the request of the holder when the original is lost, stolen, or damaged and there has been no material change in information since prior issuance.


*Execution environment* means a place within a device processer where active application's code is processed.


*Federal agency* means all executive agencies including Executive departments, a Government corporation, and an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.


*Federally-regulated commercial aircraft* means a commercial aircraft regulated by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).


*Front end system* means a system with a public IP address, including a web server, mail server, DNS server, jump host, or authentication server.


*Full compliance* means that the Secretary or his designate(s) has determined that a State has met all the requirements of Subparts A through E.


*Full legal name* means an individual's first name, middle name(s), and last name or surname, without use of initials or nicknames.


*Hardware security module* means a physical computing device that safeguards and manages cryptographic keys and provides cryptographic processing.


*High security zone* means a physical location where a State's or *Delegated third party's* private key or cryptographic hardware is located.


*IAFIS* means the Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System, a national fingerprint and criminal history system maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that provides automated fingerprint search capabilities.


*Identification card* means a document made or issued by or under the authority of a State Department of Motor Vehicles or State office with equivalent function which, when completed with information concerning a particular individual, is of a type intended or commonly accepted for the purpose of identification of individuals.


*Identity proofing* refers to a series of steps that the State executes to prove the identity of a person.


*Identity verification* is the confirmation that identity data belongs to its purported holder.


*INS* means the former-Immigration and Naturalization Service of the U.S. Department of Justice.


*Internal support system* means a system which operates on a State's internal network and communicates with the *certificate system* to provide business services related to mDL management.


*Issuing authority* means the State that issues a *mobile driver's license* or *mobile identification card.*

*Issuing authority certificate authority* means a *certificate authority* operated by or on behalf of an *issuing authority* or a State's *root certificate authority.*

*Issuing system* means a system used to sign *mDLs, digital certificates,* mobile security objects, or validity status information.


*Lawful status:* A person in lawful status is a citizen or national of the United States; or an alien: lawfully admitted for permanent or temporary residence in the United States; with conditional permanent resident status in the United States; who has an approved application for asylum in the United States or has entered into the United States in refugee status; who has a valid nonimmigrant status in the United States; who has a pending application for asylum in the United States; who has a pending or approved application for temporary protected status (TPS) in the United States; who has approved deferred action status; or who has a pending application for lawful permanent residence (LPR) or conditional permanent resident status. This definition does not affect other definitions or requirements that may be contained in the Immigration and Nationality Act or other laws.


*Material change* means any change to the personally identifiable information of an individual as defined under this part. Notwithstanding the definition of personally identifiable information below, a change of address of principal residence does not constitute a material change.


*Material compliance* means a determination by DHS that a State has met the benchmarks contained in the Material Compliance Checklist.


*mDL* means *mobile driver's license* and *mobile identification cards,* collectively.


*Mobile driver's license* means a *driver's license* that is stored on a mobile electronic device and read electronically.


*Mobile identification card* means an *identification card,* issued by a State, that is stored on a mobile electronic device and read electronically.


*Multi-Factor authentication* means an authentication mechanism consisting of two or more of the following independent categories of credentials (*i.e.,* factors) to verify the user's identity for a login or other transaction: something you know (knowledge factor), something you have (possession factor), and something you are (inherence factor).


*NCIC* means the National Crime Information Center, a computerized index of criminal justice information maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that is available to Federal, State, and local law enforcement and other criminal justice agencies.


*Official purpose* means accessing Federal facilities, boarding Federally-regulated commercial aircraft, and entering nuclear power plants.


*Online certificate status protocol* means an online protocol used to determine the status of a *digital certificate.*

*Passport* means a passport booklet or card issued by the U.S. Department of State that can be used as a travel document to gain entry into the United States and that denotes identity and citizenship as determined by the U.S. Department of State.


*Penetration test* means a process that identifies and attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in systems through the active use of known attack techniques, including the combination of different types of exploits, with a goal of breaking through layers of defenses and reporting on unpatched vulnerabilities and system weaknesses.


*Personally identifiable information* means any information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as their name; driver's license or identification card number; social security number; biometric record, including a digital photograph or signature; alone, or when combined with other personal or identifying information, which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as a date and place of birth or address, whether it is stored in a database, on a driver's license or identification card, or in the machine readable technology on a license or identification card.


*Principal residence* means the location where a person currently resides (*i.e.*, presently resides even if at a temporary address) in conformance with the residency requirements of the State issuing the driver's license or identification card, if such requirements exist.


*Provisioning* means the process by which a State transmits and installs an *mDL* on an individual's mobile device.


*Public key infrastructure* means a structure where a *certificate authority* uses *digital certificates* for issuing, renewing, and revoking digital credentials.


*REAL ID Driver's License or Identification Card* means a driver's license or identification card that has been issued by a State that has been certified by DHS to be in compliance with the requirements of the REAL ID Act and which meets the standards of subparts A through D of this part, including temporary or limited-term driver's licenses or identification cards issued under § 37.21.


*Reissued card* means a card that a State DMV issues to replace a card that has been lost, stolen or damaged, or to replace a card that includes outdated information. A card may not be reissued remotely when there is a material change to the personally identifiable information as defined by the Rule.


*Renewed card* means a driver's license or identification card that a State DMV issues to replace a renewable driver's license or identification card.


*Rich execution environment,* also known as a “normal execution environment,” means the area inside a device processor that runs an operating system.


*Root certificate authority* means the State *certificate authority* whose public encryption key establishes the basis of trust for all other *digital certificates* issued by a State.


*Root certificate authority system* means a system used to create a State's *root certificate* or to generate, store, or sign with the private key associated with a *State root certificate.*

*SAVE* means the DHS Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements system, or such successor or alternate verification system at the Secretary's discretion.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Homeland Security.


*Secure element* means a tamper-resistant secure hardware component which is used in a device to provide the security, confidentiality, and multiple application environment required to support various business models.


*Secure hardware* means hardware provided on a mobile device for key management and trusted computation such as a *secure element* (SE) or *trusted execution environment.*

*Secure key storage device* means a device certified as meeting the specified FIPS PUB 140-3 Level 2 overall, Level 3 physical, or Common Criteria (EAL 4+).


*Secure zone* means an area (physical or logical) protected by physical and logical controls that appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of *certificate systems.*

*Security support system* means a system used to provide security support functions, which may include authentication, network boundary control, audit logging, audit log reduction and analysis, vulnerability scanning, and intrusion detection (host-based intrusion detection, network-based intrusion detection).


*Sexual assault and stalking* have the meanings given the terms in section 3, universal definitions and grant provisions, of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Pub. L. 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960, 2964, Jan. 5, 2006); codified at section 40002, Definitions and grant provisions, 42 U.S.C. 13925, or State laws addressing sexual assault and stalking.


*Sole control* means a condition in which logical and physical controls are in place to ensure the *administration* of a *certificate system* can only be performed by a State or *delegated third party.*

*Source document(s)* means original or certified copies (where applicable) of documents presented by an applicant as required under these regulations to the Department of Motor Vehicles to apply for a driver's license or identification card.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State address confidentiality program* means any State-authorized or State-administered program that—


(1) Allows victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or a severe form of trafficking to keep, obtain, and use alternative addresses; or


(2) Provides confidential record-keeping regarding the addresses of such victims or other categories of persons.


*State root certificate* means a public *digital certificate* of a *root certificate authority* operated by or on behalf of a State.


*System* means one or more pieces of equipment or software that stores, transforms, or communicates data.


*Temporary lawful status:* A person in temporary lawful status is a person who: Has a valid nonimmigrant status in the United States (other than a person admitted as a nonimmigrant under the Compacts of Free Association between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau); has a pending application for asylum in the United States; has a pending or approved application for temporary protected status (TPS) in the United States; has approved deferred action status; or has a pending application for LPR or conditional permanent resident status.


*Trusted execution environment* means an *execution environment* that runs alongside but isolated from a *rich execution environment* and has the security capabilities necessary to protect designated applications.


*Trusted role* means an employee or contractor of a State or *delegated third party* who has authorized access to or control over a *secure zone* or *high security zone.*

*Verify* means procedures to ensure that:


(1) The source document is genuine and has not been altered (*i.e.*, “document authentication”); and


(2) The identity data contained on the document is valid (“data verification”).


*Virtual local area network* means a broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated within a network.


*Vulnerability* means a weakness in an information system, system security procedures, internal controls, or implementation that could be exploited or triggered by a threat source.


*Vulnerability scanning* means a technique used to identify host attributes and associated *vulnerabilities.*

*Zone* means a subset of *certificate systems* created by the logical or physical partitioning of systems from other *certificate systems.*


---

[N] [73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 46426, Sept. 4, 2019; 89 FR 85375, Oct. 25, 2024]






