# ยง 423.159   Electronic prescription drug program.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


*Dispenser* means a person or other legal entity licensed, registered, or otherwise permitted by the jurisdiction in which the person practices or the entity is located to provide drug products for human use by prescription in the course of professional practice.


*Electronic media* has the same meaning given this term in 45 CFR 160.103.


*E-prescribing* means the transmission using electronic media, of prescription or prescription-related information between a prescriber, dispenser, pharmacy benefit manager, or health plan, either directly or through an intermediary, including an e-prescribing network. E-prescribing includes, but is not limited to, two-way transmissions between the point of care and the dispenser.


*Electronic prescription drug program* means a program that provides for e-prescribing for covered Part D drugs prescribed for Part D eligible individuals.


*Prescriber* means a physician, dentist, or other person licensed, registered, or otherwise permitted by the U.S. or the jurisdiction in which he or she practices, to issue prescriptions for drugs for human use.


*Prescription-related information* means information regarding eligibility for drug benefits, medication history, or related health or drug information for Part D eligible individuals.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Requirement.* Part D sponsors must support and comply with electronic prescription standards relating to covered Part D drugs for Part D enrollees developed by CMS once final standards are effective.


(d) *Promotion of electronic prescribing by MA-PD plans.* An MA organization offering an MA-PD plan may provide for a separate or differential payment to a participating physician that prescribes covered Part D drugs in accordance with electronic prescription standards, including initial standards and final standards established by CMS once final standards are effective. Any payments must be in compliance with applicable Federal and State laws related to fraud and abuse, including the physician self-referral prohibition (section 1877 of the Act) and the Federal anti kickback statute (section 1128B(b) of the Act).



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 67593, Nov. 7, 2005]




