# ยง 80.13   Termination of grant; recovery of funds.

(a) *Termination of grant.* VA may terminate a grant agreement with any VSTAGP grantee that does not comply with the terms of the VSTAGP agreement.


(b) *Recovery of funds.* VA may recover from the grantee any funds paid if the grantee violates the grant agreement or may recover any funds that have not been used in accordance with a VSTAGP grant agreement. If VA decides to recover funds, VA will issue the grantee a notice of intent to recover VSTAGP grant funds. The grantee will then have 30 days from the date of the notice to submit documentation demonstrating why the VSTAGP grant funds should not be recovered. If the VSTAGP grantee does not respond or if the grantee responds, but VA determines the documentation is insufficient to establish compliance, VA will make a final determination to recover the VSTAGP grant funds. If VA determines that the grantee did not violate the grant agreement, VA will make a final determination not to recover the grant funds.


(c) *Prohibition of further payment of grant funds.* When VA determines that action will be taken to recover grant funds from a grantee, the grantee will be prohibited from receiving any further VSTAGP grant funds under this part until the grant funds are recovered and the condition that led to the recovery of the grant funds is resolved, unless the grant agreement has been terminated. If the grant agreement has been terminated, no future payments would be issued upon recovery.


