# § 470.103   Definitions.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, terms defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are used in this part as so defined.


*Consultation* means that one party confers with another identified party and, prior to taking action(s), considers that party's views.


*Cooperation* means that the parties involved in carrying out the planning, programming and management systems processes work together to achieve a common goal or objective.


*Coordination* means the comparison of the transportation plans, programs, and schedules of one agency with related plans, programs, and schedules of other agencies or entities with legal standing, and adjustment of plans, programs, and schedules to achieve general consistency.


*Federal-aid highway systems* means the National Highway System and the Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways (the “Interstate System”).


*Federal-aid highways* means highways on the Federal-aid highway systems and all other public roads not classified as local roads or rural minor collectors.


*Governor* means the chief executive of the State and includes the Mayor of the District of Columbia.


*Metropolitan planning organization* (*MPO*) means the forum for cooperative transportation decisionmaking for the metropolitan planning area in which the metropolitan transportation planning process required by 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5305 must be carried out.


*Responsible local officials* means—


(1) In urbanized areas, principal elected officials of general purpose local governments acting through the Metropolitan Planning Organization designated by the Governor, or


(2) In rural areas and urban areas not within any urbanized area, principal elected officials of general purpose local governments.


*State* means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or, for purposes of functional classification of highways, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.




