# § 405.1056   Remands of requests for hearing and requests for review.

(a) *Missing appeal determination or case record.* (1) If an ALJ or attorney adjudicator requests an official copy of a missing redetermination or reconsideration for an appealed claim in accordance with § 405.1034, and the QIC or another contractor does not furnish the copy within the time frame specified in § 405.1034, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator may issue a remand directing the QIC or other contractor to reconstruct the record or, if it is not able to do so, initiate a new appeal adjudication.


(2) If the QIC does not furnish the case file for an appealed reconsideration, an ALJ or attorney adjudicator may issue a remand directing the QIC to reconstruct the record or, if it is not able to do so, initiate a new appeal adjudication.


(3) If the QIC or another contractor is able to reconstruct the record for a remanded case and returns the case to OMHA, the case is no longer remanded and the reconsideration is no longer vacated, and any adjudication period that applies to the appeal in accordance with § 405.1016 is extended by the period between the date of the remand and the date that case is returned to OMHA.


(b) *No redetermination.* If an ALJ or attorney adjudicator finds that the QIC issued a reconsideration that addressed coverage or payment issues related to the appealed claim and no redetermination of the claim was made (if a redetermination was required under this subpart) or the request for redetermination was dismissed, the reconsideration will be remanded to the QIC, or its successor to re-adjudicate the request for reconsideration.


(c) *Requested remand*—(1) *Request contents and timing.* At any time prior to an ALJ or attorney adjudicator issuing a decision or dismissal, the appellant and CMS or one of its contractors may jointly request a remand of the appeal to the entity that conducted the reconsideration. The request must include the reasons why the appeal should be remanded and indicate whether remanding the case will likely resolve the matter in dispute.


(2) *Granting the request.* An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may grant the request and issue a remand if he or she determines that remanding the case will likely resolve the matter in dispute.


(d) *Remanding a QIC's dismissal of a request for reconsideration.* (1) Consistent with § 405.1004(b), an ALJ or attorney adjudicator will remand a case to the appropriate QIC if the ALJ or attorney adjudicator determines that a QIC's dismissal of a request for reconsideration was in error.


(2) If an official copy of the notice of dismissal or case file cannot be obtained from the QIC, an ALJ or attorney adjudicator may also remand a request for review of a dismissal in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Relationship to local and national coverage determination appeals process.* (1) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator remands an appeal to the QIC that made the reconsideration if the appellant is entitled to relief pursuant to § 426.460(b)(1), § 426.488(b), or § 426.560(b)(1) of this chapter.


(2) Unless the appellant is entitled to relief pursuant to § 426.460(b)(1), § 426.488(b), or § 426.560(b)(1) of this chapter, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator applies the LCD or NCD in place on the date the item or service was provided.


(f) *Notice of remand.* OMHA mails or otherwise transmits a written notice of the remand of the request for hearing or request for review to the appellant, all of the parties who were sent a copy of the request at their last known address, and CMS or a contractor that elected to be a participant in the proceedings or party to the hearing. The notice states that there is a right to request that the Chief ALJ or a designee review the remand, unless the remand was issued under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(g) *Review of remand.* Upon a request by a party or CMS or one of its contractors filed within 30 calendar days of receiving a notice of remand, the Chief ALJ or designee will review the remand, and if the remand is not authorized by this section, vacate the remand order. The determination on a request to review a remand order is binding and not subject to further review. The review of remand procedures provided for in this paragraph are not available for and do not apply to remands that are issued under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 5121, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 19871, May 7, 2019]




