# § 63.2342   When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, if you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to the schedule identified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, as applicable.


(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, if you startup your new affected source on or before February 3, 2004 or if you reconstruct your affected source on or before February 3, 2004, you must comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than February 3, 2004.


(ii) For any emission source listed in paragraph § 63.2338(b) at an affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction after April 2, 2002, but before February 3, 2004, that is required to be controlled based on the applicability criteria in this subpart, but:


(A) Would not have been required to be controlled based on the applicability criteria as proposed for this subpart, you must comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards for each such emission source based on the schedule found in paragraph (b) of this section or at startup, whichever is later; or


(B) Would have been subject to a less stringent degree of control requirement as proposed for this subpart, you must comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart for each such emission source based on the schedule found in paragraph (b) of this section or at startup, whichever is later, and if you start up your affected new or reconstructed source before February 5, 2007, you must comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards for each such emission source as proposed for this subpart, until you are required to comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart for each such emission source based on the schedule found in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) If you commence construction of or reconstruct your affected source after February 3, 2004, you must comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.


(3) If, after startup of a new affected source, the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume at that source exceeds the criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 9 and 10, the owner or operator must comply with the transfer rack requirements specified in § 63.2346(b) immediately; that is, be in compliance the first day of the period following the end of the 3-year period triggering the control criteria.


(b) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, if you have an existing affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to the schedule identified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, as applicable.


(1) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards for existing affected sources no later than February 5, 2007, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.


(2) Floating roof storage tanks at existing affected sources must be in compliance with the work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart, item 1, at all times after the next degassing and cleaning activity or within 10 years after February 3, 2004, whichever occurs first. If the first degassing and cleaning activity occurs during the 3 years following February 3, 2004, the compliance date is February 5, 2007.


(3)(i) If an addition or change other than reconstruction as defined in § 63.2 is made to an existing affected facility that causes the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume to exceed the criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 and 8, the owner or operator must comply with the transfer rack requirements specified in § 63.2346(b) immediately; that is, be in compliance the first day of the period following the end of the 3-year period triggering the control criteria.


(ii) If the owner or operator believes that compliance with the transfer rack emission limits cannot be achieved immediately, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator may submit a request for a compliance extension, as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) through (I) of this section. Subject to paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, until an extension of compliance has been granted by the Administrator (or a State with an approved permit program) under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii), the owner or operator of the transfer rack subject to the requirements of this section shall comply with all applicable requirements of this subpart. Advice on requesting an extension of compliance may be obtained from the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program).


(A) *Submittal.* The owner or operator shall submit a request for a compliance extension to the Administrator (or a State, when the State has an approved 40 CFR part 70 permit program and the source is required to obtain a 40 CFR part 70 permit under that program, or a State, when the State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce the emission standard for that source) seeking an extension allowing the source up to 1 additional year to comply with the transfer rack standard, if such additional period is necessary for the installation of controls. The owner or operator of the affected source who has requested an extension of compliance under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) and who is otherwise required to obtain a title V permit shall apply for such permit, or apply to have the source's title V permit revised to incorporate the conditions of the extension of compliance. The conditions of an extension of compliance granted under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) will be incorporated into the affected source's title V permit according to the provisions of 40 CFR part 70 or Federal title V regulations in this chapter (42 U.S.C. 7661), whichever are applicable.


(B) *When to submit.* (*1*) Any request submitted under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section must be submitted in writing to the appropriate authority no later than 120 days prior to the affected source's compliance date (as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section), except as provided for in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section. Nonfrivolous requests submitted under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B)(*1*) will stay the applicability of the rule as to the emission points in question until such time as the request is granted or denied. A denial will be effective as of the date of denial.


(*2*) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request after the date specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section provided the need for the compliance extension arose after that date, and before the otherwise applicable compliance date and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request must include, in addition to the information required in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, a statement of the reasons additional time is needed and the date when the owner or operator first learned of the problems. Nonfrivolous requests submitted under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B)(*2*) will stay the applicability of the rule as to the emission points in question until such time as the request is granted or denied. A denial will be effective as of the original compliance date.


(C) *Information required.* The request for a compliance extension under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall include the following information:


(*1*) The name and address of the owner or operator and the address of the existing source if it differs from the address of the owner or operator;


(*2*) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person for further information;


(*3*) An identification of the organic liquid distribution operation and of the specific equipment for which additional compliance time is required;


(*4*) A description of the controls to be installed to comply with the standard;


(*5*) Justification for the length of time being requested; and


(*6*) A compliance schedule, including the date by which each step toward compliance will be reached. At a minimum, the list of dates shall include:


(*i*) The date by which on-site construction, installation of emission control equipment, or a process change is planned to be initiated;


(*ii*) The date by which on-site construction, installation of emission control equipment, or a process change is to be completed; and


(*iii*) The date by which final compliance is to be achieved.


(D) *Approval of request for extension of compliance.* Based on the information provided in any request made under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, or other information, the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) may grant an extension of compliance with the transfer rack emission standard, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The extension will be in writing and will—


(*1*) Identify each affected source covered by the extension;


(*2*) Specify the termination date of the extension;


(*3*) Specify the dates by which steps toward compliance are to be taken, if appropriate;


(*4*) Specify other applicable requirements to which the compliance extension applies (e.g., performance tests);


(*5*) Specify the contents of the progress reports to be submitted and the dates by which such reports are to be submitted, if required pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(E) of this section.


(*6*) Under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, specify any additional conditions that the Administrator (or the State) deems necessary to assure installation of the necessary controls and protection of the health of persons during the extension period.


(E) *Progress reports.* The owner or operator of an existing source that has been granted an extension of compliance under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section may be required to submit to the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) progress reports indicating whether the steps toward compliance outlined in the compliance schedule have been reached.


(F) *Notification of approval or intention to deny.* (*1*) The Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance within 30 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate a request submitted under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The Administrator (or the State) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application; that is, whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination, within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted. The 30-day approval or denial period will begin after the owner or operator has been notified in writing that his/her application is complete. Failure by the Administrator to act within 30 calendar days to approve or disapprove a request submitted under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section does not constitute automatic approval of the request.


(*2*) When notifying the owner or operator that his/her application is not complete, the Administrator will specify the information needed to complete the application and provide notice of opportunity for the applicant to present, in writing, within 30 calendar days after he/she is notified of the incomplete application, additional information or arguments to the Administrator to enable further action on the application.


(*3*) Before denying any request for an extension of compliance, the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the Administrator's (or the State's) intention to issue the denial, together with:


(*i*) Notice of the information and findings on which the intended denial is based; and


(*ii*) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present in writing, within 15 calendar days after he/she is notified of the intended denial, additional information or arguments to the Administrator (or the State) before further action on the request.


(*4*) The Administrator's final determination to deny any request for an extension will be in writing and will set forth the specific grounds on which the denial is based. The final determination will be made within 30 calendar days after presentation of additional information or argument (if the application is complete), or within 30 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.


(G) *Termination of extension of compliance.* The Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) may terminate an extension of compliance at an earlier date than specified if any specification under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D)(*3*) or paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D)(*4*) of this section is not met. Upon a determination to terminate, the Administrator will notify, in writing, the owner or operator of the Administrator's determination to terminate, together with:


(*1*) Notice of the reason for termination; and


(*2*) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present in writing, within 15 calendar days after he/she is notified of the determination to terminate, additional information or arguments to the Administrator before further action on the termination.


(*3*) A final determination to terminate an extension of compliance will be in writing and will set forth the specific grounds on which the termination is based. The final determination will be made within 30 calendar days after presentation of additional information or arguments, or within 30 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.


(H) The granting of an extension under this section shall not abrogate the Administrator's authority under section 114 of the CAA.


(I) *Limitation on use of compliance extension.* The owner or operator may request an extension of compliance under the provisions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section only once for each facility.


(c) If you have an area source that does not commence reconstruction but increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP emissions and an existing affected source subject to this subpart, you must be in compliance by 3 years after the area source becomes a major source.


(d) You must meet the notification requirements in §§ 63.2343 and 63.2382(a), as applicable, according to the schedules in § 63.2382(a) and (b)(1) through (2) and in subpart A of this part. Some of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance dates for the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart.


(e) An affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before October 21, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section upon initial startup or July 7, 2023, whichever is later. An affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction after October 21, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section upon initial startup or July 7, 2020, whichever is later.


(1) The requirements for storage tanks not requiring control specified in § 63.2343(b)(4).


(2) The requirements for storage tanks at an existing affected source specified in §§ 63.2346(a)(5) and (6), 63.2386(d)(3)(iii), 63.2396(a)(4), footnote (2) to Table 2 to this subpart, and Table 2b to this subpart.


(3) The flare requirements specified in §§ 63.2346(k), 63.2382(d)(2)(ix), 63.2386(d)(5), 63.2390(h), footnote (1) to Table 2 to this subpart, item 7.d, to Table 3 to this subpart, items 1.a.iii and 2.a.iii of Table 8 to this subpart, and item 7.e of Table 9 to this subpart.


(4) The requirements specified in §§ 63.2346(l), 63.2350(d), 63.2366(c), 63.2390(f) and (g), 63.2386(c)(11) and (12), 63.2386(d)(1)(xiii) and (f) through (j), 63.2378(e), footnote (1) to Table 9 to this subpart, and items 1.a.i and 2.a.ii of Table 10 to this subpart.


(5) The performance testing requirements specified in § 63.2354(b)(6).



---

[N] [69 FR 5063, Feb. 3, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 42905, July 28, 2006; 85 FR 40761, July 7, 2020]




