# ยง 782.2   Definitions.

As used in this part and in all instructions, forms, and documents in connection therewith, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the meanings herein assigned to them unless the context or subject matter requires otherwise. References contained herein to other parts of this chapter or title shall be construed as references to such parts and amendments now in effect or later issued.


*Date of entry* means the effective time of entry of the merchandise, as defined in 19 CFR part 101.


*End Use* means the actual manner in which Canadian-produced wheat was used, including, among other uses, milling, brewing, malting, distilling, manufacturing, or export.


*End user* means the entity that uses Canadian-produced wheat for, among other uses, milling, brewing, malting, distilling, manufacturing, or other use, except resale.


*Entity* means a legal entity including, but not limited to, an individual, joint stock company, corporation, association, partnership, cooperative, trust, and estate.


*Entry* means that documentation required by 19 CFR part 142 to be filed with the appropriate U.S. Customs officer to secure the release of imported merchandise from U.S. Customs custody, or the act of filing that documentation.


*Grain handler* means an entity other than the importer, exporter, subsequent buyer, or end user that handles wheat on behalf of an importer, exporter, subsequent buyer, or end user.


*Importer* means a party qualifying as an Importer of Record pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1484(a).


*Metric ton* means a unit of measure that equals 2,204.6 pounds.


*Subsequent buyer* means an entity other than the end user or importer which owns wheat originating in Canada.


*Workdays* means days that the Federal government normally conducts business, which excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.



---

[N] [60 FR 5089, Jan. 26, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 32643, June 25, 1996; 64 FR 12885, Mar. 16, 1999]




