# § 802.223   Service requirements.

This section prescribes rules and procedures for serving pleadings (including notices of appeal, petitions for review, and response briefs, additional briefs, and motions), exhibits, and other documents including routine correspondence on other parties and representatives.


(a) A copy of any document filed with the Board must be served on each party and the Solicitor of Labor by the party filing the document.


(b) *Manner of service.* (1) Nonelectronic service may be completed by:


(i) Personal delivery;


(ii) Mail; or


(iii) Commercial delivery.


(2) Electronic service may be completed by:


(i) Electronic mail, if consented to in writing by the person served; or


(ii) Sending it to a user registered with the Board's electronic case management system by filing via this system. A person who registers to use the Board's case management system is deemed to have consented to accept service through the system.


(c) *When service is effected.* (1) Service by personal delivery is effected on the date the document is delivered to the recipient.


(2) Service by mail or commercial carrier is effected on mailing or delivery to the carrier.


(3) Service by electronic means is effected on sending.


(d) *Date of receipt for electronic documents.* Unless the party making service is notified that the document was not received by the party served—


(1) A document filed via the Board's case management system is considered received by registered users on the date it is sent by the system; and


(2) A document served via electronic mail is considered received by the recipient on the date it is sent.



---

[N] [89 FR 8537, Feb. 8, 2024]






