# § 231.10   Caboose cars with platforms.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* (i) Each caboose car shall be equipped with an efficient hand brake which shall operate in harmony with the power brake thereon.


(ii) The hand brake may be of any efficient design, but must provide the same degree of safety as the design shown on plate A.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion.


(ii) The brake shaft on caboose cars with platforms shall be located on platform to the left of center.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the brakes from right to left side on steel or steel-underframe cars with platform end sills, in service July 1, 1911, except when such appliances are renewed, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(4)).


(b) *Running boards*—(1) *Number.* One longitudinal running board.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(c)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Full length of car, center of roof. (On caboose cars with cupolas, longitudinal running boards shall extend from cupola to ends of roof.)


(ii) Outside - metal - roof - cars shall have latitudinal extensions leading to ladder locations.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(c)(4)). See note below.


(c) *Ladders*—(1) *Number.* Two.


(2) *Dimensions.* None specified.


(3) *Location.* One on each end.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as (*see* § 231.1(e)(4)). See note below.


(d) *Roof handholds*—(1) *Number.* One over each ladder. Where stiles of ladders extend 12 inches or more above roof, no other roof handholds are required.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(g)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) On roof of caboose in line with and running parallel to treads of ladder, not less than 8 nor more than 15 inches from edge of roof.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(g)(4)). See note below.


(e) *Cupola handholds*—(1) *Number.* One or more.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches.


(3) *Location.* (i) One continuous handhold extending around top of cupola not more than 3 inches from edge of cupola roof.


(ii) Four right-angle handholds, one at each corner, not less than 16 inches in clear length from point of angle, may take the place of the one continuous handhold specified, if locations coincide.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Cupola handholds shall be securely fastened with not less than 
1/2-inch bolts with nuts outside and riveted over or with not less than 
1/2-inch rivets. See note below.


(f) *Side handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clear length, 36 inches. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2, inches.


(3) *Location.* (i) One near each end on each side of car, curving downward toward center of car from a point not less than 30 inches above platform to a point not more than 8 inches from bottom of car. Top end of handhold shall be not more than 8 inches from outside face of end sheathing.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(4)).


(g) *End handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one near each side on each end of car on face of platform end sill. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 16 inches from end of platform end sill.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(4)).


(h) *End-platform handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches.


(3) *Location.* (i) One right-angle handhold on each side of each end extending horizontally from door post to corner of car at approximate height of platform rail, then downward to within 12 inches of bottom of car.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Handholds shall be securely fastened with bolts, screws, or rivets.


(i) *Caboose-platform steps.* Safe and suitable box steps leading to caboose platforms shall be provided at each corner of caboose. Lower tread of step shall be not more than 24 inches above top of rail.


(j) *Uncoupling levers.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)).



---

[N] [33 FR 19663, Dec. 25, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 10149, June 20, 1970]




