# § 72.17   Unloading noninfected cattle for rest, feed, and water only, permitted in authorized pens for such purpose.

(a) *Specifications for construction and maintenance.* Cattle of the free area, and cattle of the quarantined area when properly dipped, inspected, and certified in accordance with this part, which are transported interstate by rail through the quarantined area shall not be unloaded therein for rest, feed, and water unless they are unloaded into the properly equipped, noninfectious pens set apart for such cattle at such points as may from time to time be authorized by APHIS. Such noninfectious pens and the platforms, chutes, and alleys leading thereto shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the specifications set out in paragraphs (a)(1) to (6) of this section. 


(1) The outside fences enclosing such pens, and the fences on either side of the alleys, chutes, and platforms leading thereto, shall be tight board fences not less than 6 feet high on the inside. 


(2) If such pens, alleys, chutes, and platforms are adjacent to pens, alleys, chutes, and platforms used by cattle of the quarantined area, there shall be between them a space not less than 10 feet wide, which shall be inaccessible to livestock. This space shall be limited on each side by the 6-foot fence required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The remaining space around such yards shall be limited as in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. 


(3) If such pens, alleys, chutes, and platforms are isolated from other pens, alleys, chutes, or platforms, there shall be built and maintained outside thereof on all sides to which cattle of the vicinity might otherwise approach a cattle-proof fence not less than 5 feet high and not less than 15 feet from the 6-foot fence required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(4) The only means of egress from such pens shall be by way of the alleys, chutes, and platforms inclosed by 6-foot fences as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, to cars for reforwarding; and under no circumstances shall there exist any connection between such pens and other adjacent premises. 


(5) Such noninfectious premises shall be so located, or such drainage facilities shall be provided therefor, that water from the surrounding area will not flow on to or through them. 


(6) Such pens shall be marked by a conspicuous sign bearing the words “Noninfectious Pens” in letters not less than 10 inches in height. 


(b) *Materials for use in noninfectious pens; source, shipment, handling.* The hay, straw, or similar materials required for feed and bedding in such noninfectious pens shall be shipped in noninfectious cars from points outside of the quarantined area so handled that they may not become infectious. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5940, June 13, 1963, as amended at 56 FR 51975, Oct. 17, 1991]




