# § 147.2925   Standard permit conditions.

(a) The permittee must comply with all permit conditions, except as authorized by an emergency permit (described in § 147.2906). Noncompliance is grounds for permit modification, permit termination or enforcement action.


(b) The permittee has a duty to halt or reduce activity in order to maintain compliance with permit conditions.


(c) The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to mitigate any adverse environmental impact resulting from noncompliance.


(d) The permittee shall properly operate and maintain all facilities installed or used to meet permit conditions. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate operator staffing and training, adequate funding, and adequate engineering capability available.


(e) This permit may be modified or terminated for cause (see §§ 147.2927 and 147.2928). The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.


(f) This permit does not convey any property rights, or any exclusive privilege.


(g) The permittee shall furnish, within a reasonable time, information that the Regional Administrator requests, for determination of permit compliance, or if cause exists, for permit modification or termination.


(h) The permittee shall allow EPA representatives, upon presentation of appropriate credentials or other documentation, to:


(1) Enter permittee's premises where a regulated activity is conducted or located, or where records required by this permit are kept;


(2) Have access to and copy records required by this permit;


(3) Inspect any facilities, equipment, practices or operations regulated or required by this permit; and


(4) Sample or monitor any substances or parameters at any location for purpose of assuring compliance with this permit or the SDWA.


(i) *Monitoring and records.* (1) Samples and monitoring data shall be representative of injection activity.


(2) Permittee shall retain monitoring records for three years.


(3) Monitoring records shall include:


(i) Date, exact place and time of sampling or measurement;


(ii) Individual(s) who preformed the measurements;


(iii) Date(s) analyses were performed;


(iv) Individual(s) who performed the analyses;


(v) Analytical techniques or methods used, including quality assurance techniques employed to insure the generation of reliable data; and


(vi) Results of analyses.


(j) *Signatory requirements.* All applications, reports or information submitted to the Regional Administrator or the Osage UIC office must be signed by the injection facility owner/operator or his duly authorized representative. The person signing these documents must make the following certification:


(k) *Reporting requirements.* (1) The permittee shall notify the Regional Administrator as soon as possible of any planned changes to the facility.


(2) The permittee shall give advance notice to the Regional Administrator of any planned changes which may result in noncompliance.


(3) This permit is not transferable to any person except after notice to the Regional Administrator in accordance with § 147.2926.


(l) A new injection well shall not commence injection until construction is complete and the Regional Administrator has been notified of completion of construction and has given his approval to commence injection.


