# ยง 26.36   Products exempt from tax.

(a) *General.* Industrial spirits, denatured spirits, and products made with denatured spirits in Puerto Rico may be brought into the United States without incurring tax liability imposed by 26 U.S.C. 5001 or 7652.


(b) *Industrial spirits.* A distiller of industrial spirits who registers and files a bond as a distilled spirits plant in accordance with part 19 of this chapter may ship industrial spirits to a tax-free alcohol user in the United States who holds a permit issued under part 22 of this chapter.. These shipments shall be made in accordance with the requirements of parts 19 and 22 of this chapter.


(c) *Denatured spirits.* A distiller who registers and files a bond as a distilled spirits plant in accordance with part 19 of this chapter and who denatures spirits in accordance with parts 19 and 21 of this chapter may ship completely denatured alcohol to anyone in the United States, and may ship specially denatured spirits to a dealer or user of specially denatured spirits in the United States or Puerto Rico who holds a permit issued under part 20 of this chapter. These shipments shall be made in accordance with the requirements of parts 19 and 20 of this chapter, and subpart Ia of this part.


(d) *Products made with denatured spirits.* (1) A person in Puerto Rico who manufactures products with completely denatured alcohol in accordance with the requirements of part 20 of this chapter may ship those products to the United States in accordance with the requirements of part 20 of this chapter, and subpart Ia of this part.


(2) A person in Puerto Rico who manufactures products with specially denatured spirits may ship those products to the United States if that person (i) obtains a permit to use specially denatured spirits under part 20 of this chapter, and (ii) complies with the requirements of part 20 of this chapter and subpart Ia of this part relating to the manufacture and shipment of those products.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9198, Mar. 6, 1985; T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 20099, May 14, 1985, as amended by T.D. ATF-271, 53 FR 17559, May 17, 1988]




