# ยง 206.121   Commissioner authorized to make payments.

(a) *Investigation.* The Commissioner will investigate all complaints by a borrower concerning late payments. If the Commissioner determines that the mortgagee is unable or unwilling to make all payments required under the mortgage, including late charges, the Commissioner shall pay such payments and late charges to the borrower.


(b) *Reimbursement or assignment.* The Commissioner may demand that within 30 days from the demand, the mortgagee reimburse the Commissioner, with interest from the date of payment by the Commissioner, or assign the insured mortgage to the Commissioner. Interest shall be paid at a rate set in conformity with the Treasury Financial Manual. If the mortgagee complies with the reimbursement demand, then the contract of insurance shall not be affected. If the mortgagee complies by assigning the mortgage for record within 30 days of the demand, then the Commissioner shall pay an insurance claim as provided in ยง 206.129(e)(3) and assume all responsibilities of the mortgagee under the first mortgage. If the mortgagee fails to comply with the demand within 30 days, the contract of insurance will terminate as provided in ยง 206.133(c).


(c) *Second mortgage.* If the contract of insurance is terminated as provided in ยง 206.133(c), all payments to the borrower by the Commissioner will be secured by the second mortgage, unless otherwise provided by the Commissioner. Payments will be due and payable in the same manner as under the insured first mortgage. The liability of the borrower under the first mortgage shall be limited to payments actually made by the mortgagee to or on behalf of the borrower (including prior recoupment of the MIP remitted by the mortgagee and billed to the borrower), and shall exclude accrued interest, whether or not it has been included in the outstanding loan balance, and shared appreciation, if any. Interest will stop accruing on the first mortgage when the Commissioner begins to make payments under the second mortgage. The first mortgage will not be due and payable until the second mortgage is due and payable.




