# § 594.7   Fee for filing petitions for a determination whether a vehicle is eligible for importation.

(a) Each manufacturer or registered importer who petitions NHTSA for a determination that—


(1) A nonconforming vehicle is substantially similar to a vehicle originally manufactured for importation into and sale in the United States and of the same model year as the model for which petition is made, and is capable of being readily modified to conform to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards, or


(2) A nonconforming vehicle has safety features that comply with or are capable of being modified to comply with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards,


(b) The direct costs attributable to processing a petition filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section include the average cost per professional staff-hour, computer and computer operator time, and postage. The direct costs also include those attributable to any inspection of a vehicle requested by a petitioner in substantiation of its petition.


(c) The indirect costs attributable to processing and acting upon a petition filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section include a pro rata allocation of the average salary and benefits of persons employed in processing the petitions and recommending decisions on them, and a pro rata allocation of the costs attributable to maintaining the office space, and the computer or word processor.


(d) The direct costs attributable to acting upon a petition filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, also include the cost of publishing a notice in the _Federal Register_ seeking public comment, the cost of publishing a second notice with the agency's determination, and a pro rata share of the cost of publishing an annual list of nonconforming vehicles determined to be eligible for importation.


(e) For petitions filed on and after October 1, 2014, the fee payable for seeking a determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is $175. The fee payable for a petition seeking a determination under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is $800. If the petitioner requests an inspection of a vehicle, the sum of $827 shall be added to such fee. No portion of this fee is refundable if the petition is withdrawn or denied.


(f) In adopting a fee for the next fiscal year, the Administrator employs data based upon the cost of determinations and the amount of fees received for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the fiscal year preceding that fiscal year.



---

[N] [54 FR 40107, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 40667, Oct. 4, 1990; 56 FR 49429, Sept. 30, 1991; 58 FR 51023, Sept. 30, 1993; 61 FR 51045, Sept. 30, 1996; 65 FR 56500, Sept. 19, 2000; 67 FR 60599, Sept. 26, 2002; 69 FR 57873, Sept. 28, 2004; 71 FR 43990, Aug. 3, 2006; 73 FR 54986, Sept. 24, 2008; 75 FR 48613, Aug. 11, 2010; 77 FR 50642, Aug. 22, 2012; 79 FR 57007, Sept. 24, 2014]




