# § 411.175   Basis for Medicare primary payments.

(a) *General rule.* CMS makes Medicare primary payments for covered services that are—


(1) Furnished to Medicare beneficiaries who have declined to enroll in the GHP; 


(2) Not covered by the plan for any individuals or spouses who are enrolled by virtue of the individual's current employment status; 


(3) Covered under the plan but not available to particular individuals or spouses enrolled by virtue of current employment status because they have exhausted their benefits under the plan; 


(4) Furnished to individuals whose COBRA continuation coverage has been terminated because of the individual's Medicare entitlement; or 


(5) Covered under COBRA continuation coverage notwithstanding the individual's Medicare entitlement. 


(b) *Conditional Medicare payments: Basic rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, Medicare may make a conditional primary payment if—


(1) The beneficiary, the provider, or the supplier that has accepted assignment has filed a proper claim under the group health plan and the plan has denied the claim in whole or in part; or 


(2) The beneficiary, because of physical or mental incapacity, failed to file proper claim.


(c) *Conditional primary payments: Exception.* Medicare does not make conditional primary payments under either of the following circumstances:


(1) The claim is denied for one of the following reasons:


(i) It is alleged that the group health plan is secondary to Medicare.


(ii) The plan limits its payments when the individual is entitled to Medicare.


(iii) The plan covers the services for individuals or spouses who are enrolled in the plan by virtue of current employment status and are under age 65 but not for individuals and spouses who are enrolled on the same basis but are age 65 or older. 


(iv) Failure to file a proper claim if that failure is for any reason other than physical or mental incapacity of the beneficiary.


(2) The group health plan fails to furnish information requested by CMS and necessary to determine whether the employer plan is primary to Medicare.



---

[N] [54 FR 41734, Oct. 11, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 45362, 45371, Aug. 31, 1995]




