# ยง 27.1206   Geographic service area.

(a) BRS:


(1) For BRS incumbent licenses granted before September 15, 1995, the geographic service area (GSA) is the area that is bounded by a circle having a 35 mile radius and centered at the station's reference coordinates, which was the previous PSA entitled to incumbent licensees prior to January 10, 2005, and is bounded by the chord(s) drawn between intersection points of the licensee's previous 35 mile PSA and those of respective adjacent market, co-channel licensees;


(2) For BRS BTA authorization holders, the GSA for a channel is the BTA, subject to the exclusion of overlapping, co-channel incumbent GSAs created on January 10, 2005.


(3) If an incumbent BRS license is cancelled or is forfeited, the GSA area of the incumbent station shall dissolve and the right to operate in that area automatically reverts to the GSA licensee that held the corresponding BTA.


(b) EBS:


(1) *Existing EBS licensees.* (i) The GSA of EBS licenses on the E and F channel groups is defined in ยง 27.1216. EBS licensees on the E and F channel groups are prohibited from expanding their GSAs.


(ii) For incumbent EBS licenses not in the E and F channel groups in effect as of October 25, 2019, the geographic service area (GSA) is the area that is bounded by a circle having a 35 mile radius and centered at the station's reference coordinates, which was the previous PSA entitled to incumbent licensees prior to January 10, 2005, and is bounded by the chord(s) drawn between intersection points of the licensee's previous 35 mile PSA and those of respective adjacent market, co-channel licensees.


(2) *New initial EBS licenses.* (i) For EBS licenses issued in the Tribal Priority Window, the GSA consists of the rural Tribal Land (as defined in ยง 27.1204(b)(3)) specified in the application.


(ii) For all other new initial licenses issued after April 27, 2020, the GSA is the county for which the license is issued, subject to the exclusion of overlapping, co-channel incumbent GSAs.



---

[N] [84 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 2019]




