# § 1951.10   Application of payments on production type loan accounts.

Employees receiving payments on OL, EO, SW codes “24,” EM for subtitle B purposes, EE operating-type, and other production-type loan accounts will select, in accordance with the provisions of this section, the account(s) to which such payment will be applied. All payments on OL and EM loans approved on or before December 31, 1971, will be credited first to any administrative costs, then to noncapitalized interest, then to the amount of accrued deferred interest, and then to principal. All payments on all other loans including OL and EM loans approved after December 31, 1971, will be credited first to any administrative costs, then to noncapitalized interest, then to the amount of accrued deferred interest, then to interest accrued to the date of the payment and then to principal, in accordance with the terms of the note. This section only applies after the County Supervisor determines the amount of proceeds that will be released for other purposes in accordance with the annual plan (Form RD 431-2) and Form RD 1962-1.


(a) *Rules for selection of accounts.* The following rules will govern the selection of accounts and installments to which payments will be applied. As used in this section, “recoverable costs” are those which the loan agreement documents say the borrower is primarily responsible for paying and which the government can charge to the borrower's account.


(1) Payments from farm income or from assignments of income will be applied first to accounts with small balances, including recoverable costs, to remove such accounts from the records. Any balance will be applied on debts secured by the lien in the following order:


(i) To amounts due or falling due on loans made in connection with the current year's operations, except:


(A) When funds loaned for the purchase of capital goods were used to meet the current year's operating expenses, payments will be applied first to the final unpaid installments to the extent of the loan funds so used. These payments will be treated as extra payments.


(B) When installments on loans previously made fall due before the installment on the loan for the current year's operations or when such loans are delinquent and it is anticipated that sufficient income will be received to meet the installment on the current year's operations when due, collections may be applied first to installments on loans made in previous years.


(ii) To accounts having the oldest delinquencies, or if no delinquencies, to the oldest unpaid account, except that the amount available for payment on OL and EM loan accounts will be prorated between the two accounts on the basis of:


(A) The delinquent amount owed on each, or 


(B) The total amount owed on each if there are no delinquencies.


(2) Non-farm income and payments derived from the sale of real estate security, will be applied to the earliest account secured by the earliest lien covering such security. The amount to be applied to principal will be applied to the final unpaid installment(s).


(3) On partial refunds of loan advances, the amount to be applied to the principal will be applied to the final unpaid installment on the note which evidences such advance; however, a refund of an advance for current farm and home expenses repayable within the year may be applied to the principal on the first unpaid installment on such note as a regular payment.


(4) Total refunds of loan advances will be applied to the notes which evidence such advances.


(5) In applying payments from sources other than those in paragraphs (a)(2), (3), and (4) of this section the borrower has the right to select the loan account or accounts on which such payments will be applied. In the absence of the borrower's selection, such payments generally will be applied in the following order:


(i) To accounts with small balances, including recoverable costs.


(ii) To accounts with the oldest unsecured note(s).


(iii) To accounts with the oldest delinquencies.


(iv) To accounts with the oldest secured note or notes.


(6) Employees receiving collections are authorized to make exceptions to paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (6) of this section when it is necessary to apply a part of a payment to delinquent accounts to prevent the Federal Statute of Limitations from being asserted as a defense in suits on Agency claims.


(b) *Payments in full.* Errors of a significant amount in computation or collection will be called to the attention of the collection official by the Finance Office. The borrower's note will not be returned until the balance on the loan account is paid in full. Claims by or on behalf of the borrowers that the amounts owed have been computed incorrectly will be referred to the Finance Office.



---

[N] [50 FR 45764, Nov. 1, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 35717, Sept. 14, 1988; 54 FR 46844, Nov. 8, 1989; 57 FR 18680, Apr. 30, 1992]




