# § 622.373   Limited access system for charter vessel/headboat permits for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish.

(a) *General.* No applications for additional charter vessel/headboat permits for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish will be accepted. Existing permits may be renewed, are subject to the restrictions on transfer in paragraph (b) of this section, and are subject to the renewal requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. An eligible charter vessel/headboat permit with a historical captain endorsement may be converted to a charter vessel/headboat permit without a historical captain endorsement, per procedures at paragraph (f) of this section.


(b) *Transfer of permits*—(1) *Permits without a historical captain endorsement.* A charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish that does not have a historical captain endorsement is fully transferable, with or without sale of the permitted vessel.


(2) *Permits with a historical captain endorsement.* A charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish that has a historical captain endorsement may only be transferred to a vessel operated by the historical captain and is not otherwise transferable.


(3) *Procedure for permit transfer.* To request that the RA transfer a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish, the owner of the vessel who is transferring the permit and the owner of the vessel that is to receive the transferred permit must complete the transfer information on the reverse side of the permit and return the permit and a completed application for transfer to the RA. See § 622.4(f) for additional transfer-related requirements applicable to all permits issued under this section.


(c) *Renewal.* (1) Renewal of a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish is contingent upon compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 622.374(b).


(2) A charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish that is not renewed or that is revoked will not be reissued. A permit is considered to be not renewed when an application for renewal, as required, is not received by the RA within 1 year of the expiration date of the permit.


(d) *Requirement to display a vessel decal.* Upon renewal or transfer of a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish, the RA will issue the owner of the permitted vessel a vessel decal for that fishery. The vessel decal must be displayed on the port side of the deckhouse or hull and must be maintained so that it is clearly visible.


(e) *Passenger capacity compliance requirement.* A vessel operating as a charter vessel or headboat with a valid charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish, which is carrying more passengers on board the vessel than is specified on the permit, is prohibited from harvesting or possessing the species identified on the permit.


(f) *Procedure for conversion of permit with historical captain endorsement.* A charter vessel headboat permit with a historical captain endorsement may be converted to a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish without a historical captain endorsement as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A charter vessel/headboat permit with a historical captain endorsement that is converted to a charter vessel/headboat permit without a historical captain endorsement will retain the same vessel permit maximum passenger capacity as the permit it replaces. To convert an eligible charter vessel/headboat permit with a historical captain endorsement, the permit holder must submit a permit application to the RA by July 30, 2025. If no application to convert an eligible charter vessel/headboat permit with a historical captain endorsement is submitted by July 30, 2025, the permit holder will retain a charter vessel/headboat permit with the historical captain endorsement that is subject to the restrictions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended 78 FR 46293, July 31, 2013; 85 FR 22045, Apr. 21, 2020; 85 FR 44019, July 21, 2020; 88 FR 42272, June 30, 2023]




