# § 21.6040   Eligibility for vocational training and employment assistance.

(a) *Basic eligibility requirements.* A veteran may be provided vocational training, employment assistance and related services to achieve a vocational goal under this program, if the following basic requirements are met:


(1) The veteran is a qualified veteran as described in § 21.6005(c) of this part;


(2) The veteran participates in a VA evaluation of his or her rehabilitation potential to determine whether achievement of a vocational goal is reasonably feasible;


(3) Achievement of a vocational goal is found reasonably feasible, following evaluation by VA;


(4) The veteran elects to pursue a vocational training program;


(5) The veteran and VA develop and agree to an Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan (IWRP) identifying the vocational goal and the means through which this goal will be achieved.


(b) *Eligibility for employment assistance.* (1) As provided in this paragraph, a veteran who is a participant in this program shall be eligible to receive counseling, placement, postplacement, work and personal adjustment services furnished under § 21.6060(a)(2) of this part for a period not to exceed 18 months. These services are further described in §§ 21.140(d)(2), 21.250(a), (b)(2), (c)(3), and (4), and 21.252, 21.254, 21.256, 21.257, and 21.258 of this part.


(2) The participants who qualify for the services described in paragraph (a) of this section include a veteran who:


(i) Has completed a vocational rehabilitation training program;


(ii) Undertakes a vocational training program, but voluntarily terminates training. If VA determines the veteran to be employable at the time participation in training ends, the veteran shall be deemed to have completed the vocational training program and may be provided the employment services described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if he or she requests such assistance;


(iii) Does not require a vocational training program because VA determines as a result of an evaluation that he or she already possesses the training necessary for suitable employment and is able to achieve a vocational goal without further training; and


(iv) Has been a prior participant in a vocational training program, is currently employable, but needs employment assistance to obtain employment in a suitable occupation.


(3) The 18-month period of employment services allowed under this section shall begin upon the date that a veteran under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section completes the vocational training program or in the case of a veteran under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section is found to be employable. If a veteran has been provided such services and obtains suitable employment, but is later found to require additional services of this kind, the veteran may be provided such additional services during any portion of the original 18-month period remaining.


(c) *Eligibility if pension is terminated.* A qualified veteran for whom a program of vocational training has been found reasonably feasible shall remain eligible for the temporary program, subject to the rules of this subpart and section 1524 of 38 U.S.C. ch. 15, even if his or her pension award is subsequently terminated, except when the veteran's award of VA pension was the result of fraud or administrative error.



---

[N] [53 FR 4397, Feb. 16, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 17272, Apr. 24, 1990]




