# ยง 205.1   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part:


*Demand* means an order, subpoena or any other request for documents or testimony for use in a legal proceeding.


*Document* means any record or paper held by the Copyright Office, including, without limitation, official letters, deposits, recordations, registrations, publications, or other material submitted in connection with a claim for registration of a copyrighted work.


*Employee* means any current or former officer or employee of the Copyright Office, as well as any individual subject to the jurisdiction, supervision, or control of the Copyright Office.


*General Counsel,* unless otherwise specified, means the General Counsel and Associate Register of Copyrights or his or her designee.


*Legal proceeding* means any pretrial, trial, and post-trial stages of existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before courts, commissions, boards or other tribunals, foreign or domestic. This phrase includes all phases of discovery as well as responses to formal or informal requests by attorneys or others involved in legal proceedings. This phrase also includes state court proceedings (including grand jury proceedings) and any other state or local legislative and administrative proceedings.


*Office* means the Copyright Office, including any division, section, or operating unit within the Copyright Office.


*Official business* means the authorized business of the Copyright Office.


*Testimony* means a statement in any form, including a personal appearance before a court or other legal tribunal, an interview, a deposition, an affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746, a telephonic, televised, or videotaped statement or any response given during discovery or similar proceeding, which response would involve more than the production of documents, including a declaration under 35 U.S.C. 25 or a declaration under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746.


*United States* means the Federal Government, its departments and agencies, individuals acting on behalf of the Federal Government, and parties to the extent they are represented by the United States. 



---

[N] [82 FR 9364, Feb. 6, 2017]




