# ยง 890.1112   Denial of continuation of coverage due to involuntary separation for gross misconduct.

(a) *Notice of denial.* (1) When an employing office determines that the offense for which an employee is being removed constitutes gross misconduct for the purpose of this subpart, the employing office must notify the employee in writing of its intention to deny temporary continuation of coverage. The notice must set forth the reason for the denial and give the employee a reasonable amount of time to respond. The notice must be made no later than the date of separation. 


(2) If the employee is being removed under the authority of part 752 of this chapter (or other law, Executive Order, or regulation that prescribes procedures for removing employees because of misconduct), the notification requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be combined with the notification requirement of such authority. 


(b) *Employee's response.* (1) The employee must be allowed a reasonable time for response, but not less than 7 days. The employee may respond orally or in writing and is entitled to be represented by an attorney or other representative. 


(2) The agency must designate an official to hear the employee's oral answer who has the authority either to make or recommend a final decision on the denial. The right to answer orally does not include the right to a formal hearing with examination of witnesses. 


(c) *Final decision.* If the employee responds to the notice of denial, the employing office must issue a final decision in writing that fully sets forth its findings and conclusions. The agency's decision is not subject to reconsideration by OPM. 


(d) *Resignation in lieu of involuntary separation.* If an employee resigns after receiving the employing office's notification of intent to separate the employee involuntarily but before the scheduled separation date, his or her separation is considered involuntary for the purpose of this subpart. 




