# ยง 1503.413   Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty.

(a) *Issuance.* TSA may initiate a civil penalty action under this section by serving a Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty on the person charged with a violation of a TSA requirement. TSA will serve the Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty on the individual charged with a violation or on the president of the corporation or company charged with a violation, or other representative or employee previously identified in writing to TSA as designated to receive such service. A corporation or company may designate in writing to TSA another person to receive service of any subsequent documents in that civil penalty action.


(b) *Contents.* The Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty contains a statement of the facts alleged, the statute, regulation, or order allegedly violated, the amount of the proposed civil penalty, and a certificate of service.


(c) *Response.* Not later than 30 days after receipt of the Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty, the person charged with a violation may take one, and only one, of the following options.


(1) Submit a certified check or money order in the amount of the proposed civil penalty made payable to Transportation Security Administration, at the address specified in the Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty, or make payment electronically through *http://www.pay.gov.*

(2) Submit to the agency attorney who issued the Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty one of the following:


(i) A written request that TSA issue an Order Assessing Civil Penalty in the amount stated in the Notice of Proposed Civil Penalty without further notice, in which case the person waives the right to request a Formal Hearing, and payment is due within 30 days of receipt of the Order.


(ii) Written information and other evidence, including documents and witness statements, demonstrating that a violation of the regulations did not occur as alleged, or that the proposed penalty is not warranted by the circumstances.


(iii) A written request to reduce the proposed civil penalty, the amount of requested reduction, together with any documents supporting a reduction of the proposed civil penalty, which reflect a current financial inability to pay or records showing that payment of the proposed civil penalty would prevent the person from continuing in business.


(iv) A written request for an Informal Conference, at a date to be determined by the agency attorney, to discuss the matter with the agency attorney and to submit supporting evidence and information to the agency attorney before the date of the Informal Conference.


(3) Submit to the agency attorney and to TSA's Enforcement Docket Clerk a written request for a Formal Hearing before an ALJ in accordance with subpart G of this part. TSA's Enforcement Docket Clerk is currently located at the United States Coast Guard (USCG) ALJ Docketing Center, 40 S. Gay Street, Room 412, Baltimore, Maryland 21202-4022. If this location changes, TSA will provide notice of the change by notice in the _Federal Register._

