# ยง 1304.4605   Post-employment restrictions.

(a) General Restrictions Applicable to All Former Government Employees:


(1) *Permanent Bar.* A former Government employee is restricted from acting as a representative before an agency as to a particular matter involving a specific party if the employee participated personally and substantially in that matter as a Government employee. The government employee is also restricted from making any oral or written communication to an agency with the intent to influence on behalf of another person as to a particular matter involving a specific party if the former Government employee participated personally and substantially in that matter as a Government employee.


(2) *Two-Year Bar.* (i) A former Government employee is restricted for two years from acting as a representative before an agency as to a particular matter involving a specific party if the employee had official responsibility for that matter. The former Government employee is also restricted for two years from making any oral or written communication to any agency with the intent to influence on behalf of another person as to a particular matter involving a specific party if the employee had official responsibility for that matter.


(ii) In order to be a matter for which the former Government employee had official responsibility, the matter must actually have been pending under the employee's responsibility within the period of one year prior to the termination of such responsibility.


(iii) The statutory two-year restriction period is measured from the date when the employee's responsibility for a particular matter ends, not from the termination of Government service.


(b) Restrictions Applicable Only to Former Senior Employees:


(1) *Two-Year Bar on Assisting in Representing.* (i) A former Senior Employee is restricted for two years from assisting in representing another person by personal appearance before an agency as to a particular matter involving a specific party if the former Senior Employee participated personally and substantially in that matter as a Government employee.


(ii) The statutory two-year period is measured from the date of termination of employment in the position that was held by the Senior Employee when he participated personally and substantially in the matter involved.


(2) *One-Year Bar on Attempts to Influence Former Agency.* (i) A former Senior Employee is restricted for one year from any transactions with the former agency on a particular matter with the intent to influence the agency, regardless of the former Senior Employee's prior involvement in that matter.


(ii) This restriction is aimed at the possible use of personal influence based on past Government affiliations in order to facilitate transaction of business. Therefore, it includes matters which first arise after a Senior Employee leaves Government service.


(iii) The restriction applies whether the former Senior Employee is representing another or representing himself, either by appearance before an agency or through communication with that agency.


(c) OFPP is a separate agency for purposes of the foregoing restrictions on post-employment activities.




