# ยง 26.201   Products exempt from tax.

(a) *General.* Industrial spirits, denatured spirits, and products made with denatured spirits in the Virgin Islands may be brought into the United States without incurring tax liability imposed by 26 U.S.C. 5001 or 7652.


(b) *Industrial spirits.* A distiller of industrial spirits who qualifies under regulations issued by the Governor of the Virgin Islands may ship industrial spirits to a tax-free alcohol user in the United States who holds a permit under part 22 of this chapter. Shipments shall be made in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of this part.


(c) *Denatured spirits.* A distiller who qualifies under the regulations issued by the Governor of the Virgin Islands and who denatures spirits in accordance with part 21 of this chapter may ship (1) completely denatured alcohol to anyone in the United States, and/or (2) specially denatured spirits to a dealer or user of specially denatured spirits in the United States or Puerto Rico who holds a permit under part 20 of this chapter. Shipments shall be made in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of this part.


(d) *Products made with denatured spirits.* A person in the Virgin Islands who manufactures products with completely denatured alcohol or specially denatured spirits in accordance with the requirements of part 20 of this chapter and regulations issued by the Governor of the Virgin Islands may ship those products to the United States in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of this part.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9199, Mar. 6, 1985, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87943, Nov. 6, 2024]




