# § 51.1008   Emissions inventory requirements.

(a) For any nonattainment area initially classified as Moderate, the state shall submit to the EPA all of the following:


(1) A base year inventory for the nonattainment area for all emissions sources that meets the following minimum criteria:


(i) The inventory year shall be one of the 3 years for which monitored data were used for designations or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.


(ii) The inventory shall include actual emissions of all sources within the nonattainment area.


(iii) The emissions values shall be either annual total emissions, average-season-day emissions, or both, as appropriate for the relevant PM_2.5_ NAAQS. The state shall include as part of the plan a rationale for providing annual or seasonal emissions, and the justification for the period used for any seasonal emissions calculations.


(iv) The inventory shall include direct PM_2.5_ emissions, separately reported PM_2.5_ filterable and condensable emissions, and emissions of the scientific PM_2.5_ precursors, including precursors that are not PM_2.5_ plan precursors pursuant to a precursor demonstration under § 51.1006.


(v) The state shall report emissions as point sources according to the point source emissions thresholds of the Air Emissions Reporting Requirements (AERR), 40 CFR part 51, subpart A.


(vi) The detail of the emissions inventory shall be consistent with the detail and data elements required by 40 CFR part 51, subpart A.


(2) An attainment projected inventory for the nonattainment area that meets the following minimum criteria:


(i) The year of the projected inventory shall be the most expeditious year for which projected emissions show modeled PM_2.5_ concentrations below the level of the NAAQS.


(ii) The emissions values shall be projected emissions of the same sources included in the base year inventory for the nonattainment area (*i.e.,* those only within the nonattainment area) and any new sources. The state shall include in this inventory projected emissions growth and contraction from both controls and other causes during the relevant period.


(iii) The temporal period of emissions shall be the same temporal period (annual, average-season-day, or both) as the base year inventory for the nonattainment area.


(iv) Consistent with the base year inventory for the nonattainment area, the inventory shall include direct PM_2.5_ emissions, separately reported PM_2.5_ filterable and condensable emissions, and emissions of the scientific PM_2.5_ precursors, including precursors that are not PM_2.5_ plan precursors pursuant to a precursor demonstration under § 51.1006 of this part.


(v) The same sources reported as point sources in the base year inventory for the nonattainment area shall be included as point sources in the attainment projected inventory for the nonattainment area. Stationary nonpoint and mobile source projected emissions shall be provided using the same detail (*e.g.,* state, county, and process codes) as the base year inventory for the nonattainment area.


(vi) The same detail of the emissions included shall be consistent with the level of detail and data elements as in the base year inventory for the nonattainment area (*i.e.,* as required by 40 CFR part 41, subpart A).


(b) For any nonattainment area reclassified as Serious, the state shall submit to the EPA all of the following:


(1) For purposes of meeting the emissions inventory requirements of CAA section 172(c)(3), a base year inventory for the nonattainment area for all emissions sources that meets the requirements listed under paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) through (a)(1)(vi) of this section. In addition, the inventory shall use the Serious area definition of a major source listed under § 51.165(a)(1)(iv)(A), and(a)(1)(vii) and (viii), and consistent with Table 1 of Appendix A to subpart A of this part in determining sources to include as point sources. Finally, the inventory year shall be one of the 3 years for which monitored data were used for reclassification to Serious, or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.


(2) An attainment projected inventory for the nonattainment area that meets the criteria listed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(c) *Serious nonattainment areas subject to CAA section 189(d) for failing to attain a PM*_2.5_*NAAQS by the applicable Serious area attainment date.* No later than 12 months after the EPA finds through notice-and-comment rulemaking that a Serious nonattainment area, or portion thereof contained within a state's borders, fails to attain a PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date and thus becomes subject to the requirements under CAA section 189(d), the state shall submit to the EPA all of the following:


(1) For purposes of meeting the emissions inventory requirements of CAA section 172(c)(3), a base year inventory for the nonattainment area for all emissions sources that meets the requirements listed under paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) through (a)(1)(vi) of this section. In addition, the inventory shall use the Serious area definition of a major source listed under § 51.165(a)(1)(iv)(A)(vii) and (viii) and consistent with Table 1 of Appendix A to subpart A of this part in determining sources to include as point sources. The inventory year shall be one of the 3 years for which monitored data were used to determine that the area failed to attain the PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable Serious area attainment date, or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.


(2) An attainment projected inventory for the nonattainment area as defined by § 51.1000(e) and that meets the criteria listed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.




