# § 488.408   Selection of remedies.

(a) *Categories of remedies.* In this section, the remedies specified in § 488.406(a) are grouped into categories and applied to deficiencies according to how serious the noncompliance is. 


(b) *Application of remedies.* After considering the factors specified in § 488.404, as applicable, if CMS and the State choose to impose remedies, as provided in paragraphs (c)(1), (d)(1) and (e)(1) of this section, for facility noncompliance, instead of, or in addition to, termination of the provider agreement, CMS does and the State must follow the criteria set forth in paragraphs (c)(2), (d)(2), and (e)(2) of this section, as applicable. 


(c) *Category 1.* (1) Category 1 remedies include the following: 


(i) Directed plan of correction. 


(ii) State monitoring. 


(iii) Directed in-service training. 


(2) CMS does or the State must apply one or more of the remedies in Category 1 when there— 


(i) Are isolated deficiencies that constitute no actual harm with a potential for more than minimal harm but not immediate jeopardy; or 


(ii) Is a pattern of deficiencies that constitutes no actual harm with a potential for more than minimal harm but not immediate jeopardy. 


(3) Except when the facility is in substantial compliance, CMS or the State may apply one or more of the remedies in Category 1 to any deficiency. 


(d) *Category 2.* (1) Category 2 remedies include the following: 


(i) Denial of payment for new admissions. 


(ii) Denial of payment for all individuals imposed only by CMS. 


(iii) Civil money penalties of $50-3,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per day. 


(iv) Civil money penalty of $1,000-$10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per instance of noncompliance.


(2) CMS applies one or more of the remedies in Category 2, or, except for denial of payment for all individuals, the State must apply one or more of the remedies in Category 2 when there are—


(i) Widespread deficiencies that constitute no actual harm with a potential for more than minimal harm but not immediate jeopardy; or 


(ii) One or more deficiencies that constitute actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy.


(3) CMS or the State may apply one or more of the remedies in Category 2 to any deficiency except when—


(i) The facility is in substantial compliance; or


(ii) CMS or the State imposes a civil money penalty for a deficiency that constitutes immediate jeopardy, the penalty must be in the upper range of penalty amounts, as specified in § 488.438(a).


(e) *Category 3.* (1) Category 3 remedies include the following: 


(i) Temporary management. 


(ii) Immediate termination. 


(iii) Civil money penalties of $3,050-$10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per day. 


(iv) Civil money penalty of $1,000-$10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per instance of noncompliance.


(2) When there are one or more deficiencies that constitute immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety— 


(i) CMS does and the State must do one or both of the following: 


(A) Impose temporary management; or 


(B) Terminate the provider agreement; 




(ii) For each instance of noncompliance, CMS and the State may impose a civil money penalty of $3,050-$10,000 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102) per day, $1,000-$10,000 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102) per instance of noncompliance, or both, in addition to imposing the remedies specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section. For multiple instances of noncompliance, CMS may impose any combination of per instance or per day civil money penalties for each instance within the same survey. The aggregate civil money penalty amount may not exceed $10,000 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102) for each day of noncompliance.




(3) When there are widespread deficiencies that constitute actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy, CMS and the State may impose temporary management, in addition to Category 2 remedies. 


(f) *Plan of correction.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, each facility that has a deficiency with regard to a requirement for long term care facilities must submit a plan of correction for approval by CMS or the State, regardless of—


(i) Which remedies are imposed; or 


(ii) The seriousness of the deficiencies. 


(2) When there are only isolated deficiencies that CMS or the State determines constitute no actual harm with a potential for minimal harm, the facility need not submit a plan of correction. 


(g) *Appeal of a certification of noncompliance.* (1) A facility may appeal a certification of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy. 


(2) A facility may not appeal the choice of remedy, including the factors considered by CMS or the State in selecting the remedy, specified in § 488.404. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56243, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50118, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 13360, Mar. 18, 1999; 81 FR 61563, Sept. 6, 2016; 89 FR 64162, Aug. 6, 2024]




