# ยง 655.5   What are the purposes of the International Educational Programs?

(a) Each of the programs authorized by part A of title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, contributes to at least one, but not necessarily all, of the following purposes:


(1) Provision of support for centers, programs, and fellowships in institutions of higher education in the United States for producing increased numbers of trained personnel and research in foreign languages, area studies, and other international studies.


(2) Development of a pool of international experts to meet national needs.


(3) Development and validation of specialized materials and techniques for foreign language acquisition and fluency, emphasizing (but not limited to) the less commonly taught languages.


(4) Promotion of access to research and training overseas, including through linkages with overseas institutions.


(5) Advancement of the internationalization of a variety of disciplines throughout undergraduate and graduate education.


(6) Support for cooperative efforts promoting access to and the dissemination of international and foreign language knowledge, teaching materials, and research, throughout education, government, business, civic, and nonprofit sectors in the United States, through the use of advanced technologies.


(b) The regulations in this part govern the following programs that are authorized by part A of title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended:


(1) The National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area Studies and the Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships Program.


(2) The Language Resource Centers Program.


(3) The Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language Program.


(4) The International Research and Studies Program.


(c) The following activities authorized by part A of title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, contribute to the coordination of the programs of the Federal Government in the areas of foreign language, area studies, and other international studies, including professional international affairs education and research:


(1) The consultation on areas of national need.


(2) The periodic survey of fellows who have participated in the Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships Program to determine postgraduate employment, education, or training.


(d) Each of the programs authorized by part B of title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, contributes to at least one, but not necessarily all, of the following purposes:


(1) Increase and promotion of the Nation's capacity for international understanding and economic enterprise through the provision of suitable international education and training for business personnel in various stages of professional development; and develop a pool of international experts to meet national needs.


(2) Promotion of institutional and noninstitutional educational and training activities that will contribute to the ability of United States business to prosper in an international economy.


(e) The regulations in this part govern the following programs that are authorized by part B of title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended: The Business and International Education Program.



---

[N] [89 FR 65787, Aug. 27, 2024]












