# § 299.423   Markings and instructions for emergency egress and rescue access.

(a) *General.* Instructions and markings shall be provided in each unit of a trainset in accordance with the minimum requirements of this section to provide instructions for passengers and trainset crewmembers regarding emergency egress, and rescue access instructions for emergency responders.


(b) *Visual identity and recognition.* Emergency exit signage/marking systems shall enable passengers and trainset crewmembers to make positive identification of emergency exits.


(1) Each interior emergency exit sign and emergency exit locator sign shall be conspicuous (*i.e.,* clearly recognizable/distinguishable) or become conspicuous to passengers and trainset crewmembers immediately and automatically upon the loss of power for normal lighting, from a minimum distance of 1.52 m (5 feet).


(2) The signs and markings shall operate independently of the car's normal and emergency lighting systems, for a minimum of 90 minutes after loss of all power for normal lighting.


(3) An emergency exit locator sign shall be located in close proximity of each emergency exit and shall work in conjunction with the emergency exit sign. The location of the sign, directional arrow(s), or wording shall guide passengers and trainset crewmembers to the emergency exit route.


(c) *Rescue access signage/marking systems.* (1) Rescue access signage and marking systems shall enable emergency responders to make positive identification of rescue access points.


(2) Rescue access information for emergency responders placed on the exterior of the carbody shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:


(i) Each door intended for use by emergency responders for rescue access shall be identified with emergency access signs, symbols, or other conspicuous marking consisting of retroreflective material that complies with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(ii) Rescue access door control locator signs/markings and instructions;


(A) Each door intended for use by emergency responders for rescue access shall have operating instructions for opening the door from outside the car placed on or immediately adjacent to the door on the carbody. If a power door does not function with an integral release mechanism, the instructions shall indicate the location of the exterior manual door control.


(B) Each power door intended for use by emergency responders for rescue access which has a non-integral release mechanism located away from the door, shall have a door control sign/marking placed at the location of this control that provides instructions for emergency operation, either as part of the access sign/marking or as another sign/marking.


(C) Each car equipped with manual doors shall have operating instructions for opening the door from the exterior, either as part of the access sign/marking or as another sign/marking.


(iii) Rescue access window locator signs/markings and instructions; and


(A) Each rescue access window shall be identified with a unique retroreflective and easily recognizable sign, symbol, or other conspicuous marking that complies with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(B) Signs, symbols, or marking shall be placed at the bottom of each such window, on each window, or adjacent to each window, utilizing arrows, where necessary, to clearly designate rescue assess window location. Legible and understandable window-access instructions, including any pictogram/instructions for removing the window, shall be posted at or near each rescue access window.


(iv) Roof access locator signs/markings and instructions.


(A) The location of each emergency access point provided on the roof of a passenger car shall be clearly marked with retroreflective material of contrasting color that complies with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(B) Legible and understandable instructions shall be posted at or near each such location.


(C) If emergency roof access is provided by means of a structural weak point:


(*1*) The retroreflective material shall clearly mark the line along which the roof skin shall be cut; and


(*2*) A sign plate with a retroreflective border shall also state:


CAUTION—DO NOT USE FLAME CUTTING DEVICES.


CAUTION—WARN PASSENGERS BEFORE CUTTING.


CUT ALONG DASHED LINE TO GAIN ACCESS.


ROOF CONSTRUCTION—[STATE RELEVANT DETAILS].


(d) *Color contrast.* Exterior signs/markings shall provide luminance contrast ratio of not less than 0.5, as measured by a color-corrected photometer.


(e) *Materials*—(1) *Retroreflective material.* Exterior emergency rescue access locator signs/markings shall be constructed of retroreflective material that conforms to the specifications for Type I material sheeting, as specified in ASTM D 4956-07 _ε_1 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 299.17), as tested in accordance with ASTM E 810-03 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 299.17).


(2) *HPPL materials.* All HPPL materials used in finished component configurations shall comply with the minimum luminance criterion of 7.5 mcd/m
2 after 90 minutes when tested according to the provisions of ASTM E 2073-07 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 299.17), with the following three modifications:


(i) *Activation.* The HPPL material shall be activated with a fluorescent lamp of 40W or less and a color temperature of 4000-4500K that provides no more than 10.7 lux (1 fc) of illumination as measured on the material surface. The activation period shall be for no more than 60 minutes.


(ii) *Luminance.* The photopic luminance of all specimens of the HPPL material shall be measured with a luminance meter as defined in section 5.2 of ASTM E 2073-07, a minimum of 90 minutes after activation has ceased.


(iii) *Luminance in mcd/m*2. The test report shall include a luminance measurement 90 minutes after activation has ceased.


(f) *Recordkeeping.* (1) The railroad shall retain a copy of the car manufacturer/supplier provided independent laboratory certified test report results showing that the illuminance or luminance measurements, as appropriate, on the active area of the signage/marking component. Such records shall be kept until all cars with those components are retired, transferred, leased, or conveyed to another railroad for use in revenue service. A copy of such records shall be transferred to the accepting railroad along with any such cars.


(2) The railroad shall retain a copy of the railroad-approved illuminance test plan(s) and test results until the next periodic test, or other test specified in accordance with the railroad's inspection, testing, and maintenance program is conducted on a representative car/area, or until all cars of that type are retired, or are transferred, leased, or conveyed to another railroad. A copy of such records shall be transferred to the accepting railroad along with such car(s).


(3) The railroad shall retain a copy of the certified independent laboratory test report results that certify that the retroreflective material complies with Type I materials per ASTM D-4956-07 _ε_1 until all cars containing the retroreflective material are retired, or are transferred, leased, or conveyed to another railroad. A copy of such records shall be provided to the accepting railroad along with any car(s) that are transferred, leased, or conveyed.




