# § 161.18   Benefits for abused dependents.

(a) Abused dependents of active duty uniformed services members entitled to retired pay based on 20 or more years of service who, on or after October, 23, 1992, while a member, have their eligibility to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct involving the abuse of the spouse or dependent child pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408(h), are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 22 to this subpart. For the purposes of these benefits the eligible spouse or child may not reside in the household of the sponsor. See § 161.19 for additional information on abused dependents under the 10/20/10 former spouse rule.


(b) Dependents of active duty uniformed service members (who have served for a continuous period greater than 30 days) not entitled to retired pay who have received a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, dismissal from a uniformed service as a result of a court martial conviction for an offense involving physical or emotional abuse of the spouse or child, or was administratively discharged as a result of such an offense, separated on or after November 30, 1993, are eligible for transitional privileges in accordance with DoD Instruction 1342.24, “Transitional Compensation for Abused Dependents” (available at: *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134224p.pdf*). For the purposes of these benefits the eligible spouse or child may not reside in the household of the sponsor. A maximum of up to 36 months of medical benefits can be granted by the uniformed services to the transitional compensation dependent.



---

[N] [81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11188, Feb. 14, 2024]






