# § 821.17   Motions to dismiss, for judgment on the pleadings and for summary judgment.

(a) *Motions to dismiss petition for review or complaint.* A motion to dismiss a petition for review or a complaint may be filed in lieu of an answer, within the time limit for filing an answer set forth in § 821.24(c) or § 821.31(b). If such motion is not granted in its entirety, the answer shall be filed within 10 days after service of the law judge's order on the motion. 


(b) *Motions to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction.* A motion to dismiss on the ground that the Board lacks jurisdiction may be made by any party at any time. 


(c) *Motions for judgment on the pleadings.* A party may file a motion for judgment on the pleadings on the basis that no answer has been filed, or that the pleadings disclose that there are no material issues of fact to be resolved and that party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 


(d) *Motions for summary judgment.* A party may file a motion for summary judgment on the basis that the pleadings and other supporting documentation establish that there are no material issues of fact to be resolved and that party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 


(e) *Appeals of dismissal, judgment on the pleadings and summary judgment orders.* When a law judge grants a motion to dismiss, a motion for judgment on the pleadings or a motion for summary judgment, and terminates the proceeding without a hearing, an appeal of such order to the Board may be filed pursuant to the provisions of § 821.47. When a motion to dismiss, a motion for judgment on the pleadings or a motion for summary judgment is granted in part, § 821.16 applies. 




