# ยง 1136.215   Records for program income earned after the end of the performance period.

(a) *OMB guidance.* OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.333(e) provides the retention period for records related to program income earned under a grant or cooperative agreement after the end of the period of performance, if an agency establishes requirements governing the disposition of program income earned after that time.


(b) *DoD implementation.* A DoD Component's general terms and conditions should not establish retention requirements for records related to program income earned after the end of the period of performance. Retention requirements for those records in general terms and conditions would be inconsistent with the statement in 2 CFR 1128.725 that a DoD Component should rarely, if ever, establish a requirement for a recipient to be accountable for program income earned after the end of the period of performance. Section 1128.725 provides for use of general terms and conditions wording in FMS Article VII that establishes no such requirement. Section 1128.725 further states that exceptions for individual awards are properly addressed at the time of award in the award-specific terms and conditions.


(c) *Award terms and conditions.* A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section C of OAR Article II. If a DoD Component includes a requirement in the award-specific terms and conditions for the recipient to be accountable for program income earned after the end of the period of performance, it also may include a requirement in the award-specific terms and conditions for the recipient's retention of the associated records.




