# § 721.11205   Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-hydroxy-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-hydroxy- (PMN P-17-271, CAS No. 31497-33-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substances after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii) and (iii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a polymer intermediate. It is a significant new use to manufacture, process or use the substance in a manner that generates a vapor, mist, or aerosol, or that results in inhalation exposure.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




