# ยง 350.225   MCSAP administration: Maintenance of effort to qualify for funds.

(a) *General.* Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a State must maintain an MOE each fiscal year for CMV safety programs eligible for funding under this part at a level at least equal to:


(1) The average level of that expenditure for the base period of fiscal years 2004 and 2005; or


(2) The level of expenditure in fiscal year 2021, as adjusted under section 5107 of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act (Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, 1532-34 (2015)).


(b) *Calculation.* In determining a State's MOE, FMCSA:


(1) May allow the State to exclude State expenditures for Federally-sponsored demonstration and pilot CMV safety programs and strike forces;


(2) May allow the State to exclude expenditures for activities related to border enforcement and new entrant safety audits;


(3) May allow the State to use amounts generated under the Unified Carrier Registration Agreement, provided the amounts are not applied to the match required under ยง 350.223;


(4) Requires the State to exclude Federal funds; and


(5) Requires the State to exclude State matching funds required under ยง 350.223.


(c) *Costs.* (1) In calculating the MOE under paragraph (b) of this section, a State must include all eligible costs associated with activities performed during the base period by the Lead State Agency that receives funds under this part.


(2) In its annual MOE, a State must include only those activities that meet the current requirements for funding eligibility under MCSAP.


(d) *Waivers and modifications.* (1) If a State requests, FMCSA may waive or modify the State's obligation to meet its MOE for a fiscal year if FMCSA determines that the waiver or modification is reasonable, based on circumstances described by the State.


(2) Requests to waive or modify the State's obligation to meet its MOE must be submitted to FMCSA in writing.


(3) FMCSA will review the request and provide a response as soon as practicable, but no later than 120 days following receipt of the request.


(e) *Permanent adjustment.* After Federal fiscal year 2021, at the request of a State, FMCSA may make a permanent adjustment to reduce the State's MOE only if a State has new information unavailable to it during Federal fiscal year 2021.




