# ยง 130.620   Revisions and amendments to cooperative agreements.

(a) *Requests for revisions.* The cooperative agreement may not be unilaterally amended, modified, or revised by the recipient organization. Rather, a recipient organization must submit a written request to AA/SBDC along with a copy to the appropriate District Office when it wants to make one or more revisions to the cooperative agreement. Written approval from the AA/SBDC is required prior to the implementation of a proposed revision. Revisions that require amendment of the cooperative agreement include:


(1) Any change in project scope or objectives that will substantially change outcomes described in the cooperative agreement;


(2) Budget revisions exceeding the limit established in the cooperative agreement; and


(3) Any proposed sole-source or one-bid contracts exceeding the limits established by applicable administrative regulations or OMB.


(b) *Emergency authorizations.* (1) In consultation with the Recognized Organization, the AA/SBDC may amend one or more cooperative agreements to authorize unanticipated out-of-state travel by SBDC personnel responding to a need for services in a presidentially or SBA Administrator declared major disaster area. Notification of this type of authorization will be accomplished through the publication of an SBA Notice in the _Federal Register_.


(2) Proposed and actual travel costs incurred under an emergency authorization must comply with the requirements of ยง 130.460(h), as well as the relevant notice of funding opportunity and OMB guidelines.


(c) *Supplemental funding.* If supplemental funds are available for distribution, SBA will publish a notice of funding opportunity in consultation with the Recognized Organization.



---

[N] [88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]






