# § 144.37   Withdrawal for exportation.

(a) *Form.* A withdrawal for either direct or indirect exportation must be filed by submitting an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter or on CBP Form 7501 in 3 copies for merchandise being exported under cover of a TIR carnet. The in-bond application or CBP Form 7501 must contain all of the statistical information as provided in § 141.61(e) of this chapter. The port director may require an extra copy or copies of CBP Form 7501 for use in connection with the delivery of merchandise to the carrier.


(b) *Procedure for indirect exportation*—(1) *Forwarding.* Merchandise withdrawn for indirect exportation (transportation and exportation) must be forwarded to the port of exportation in accordance with the general provisions for transportation in bond (part 18 of this chapter).


(2) *Dividing of shipments.* The dividing up for exportation of shipments arriving under warehouse withdrawals for indirect exportation will be permitted only when various portions of a shipment are destined to different destinations, when the export vessel cannot properly accommodate the entire quantity, or in other similar circumstances. In the case of merchandise moving under cover of a TIR carnet, if the merchandise is not to be exported or if the shipment is to be divided, appropriate entry will be required and the carnet discharged. The provisions of §§ 18.23 and 18.24 of this chapter concerning change of destination or retention of merchandise on the dock must also be followed in applicable cases.


(c) *Exportation by mail.* Merchandise may be withdrawn from warehouse for exportation by mail in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of part 145 of this chapter. 


(d) *Marks on packages.* The exportation must be made under the original marks of importation. Port marks may be added by authority of the port director under CBP supervision. The original and port marks must appear in all CBP papers pertaining to the exportation. 


(e) *Weight, gauge, or measure.* Merchandise in bulk and packaged articles which are customarily bought and sold by weight, gauge, or measure may be withdrawn for exportation or transportation only at the actual quantities ascertained at the time of the original entry for warehouse, except as otherwise provided for by law. In any case, the port director may require a special report of weight, gauge, or measure of the merchandise being exported if he deems it necessary. 


(f) *Merchandise not laden.* Merchandise withdrawn for exportation but not laden must be sent to general order unless other disposition is prescribed by the port director. 


(g) *Exportation at a foreign trade zone.* Merchandise may be withdrawn for exportation at a foreign trade zone in the same or at a different port. The merchandise will be considered exported upon admission to a zone in zone-restricted status, as provided in § 146.44(c) of this chapter.


(h) *Class 9 warehouse withdrawals for exportation*—(1) *Applicability of sales ticket procedure.* Merchandise in a Class 9 warehouse (duty-free store) may be withdrawn for any of the purposes set forth in this subpart. However, only conditionally duty-free merchandise in a Class 9 warehouse intended for exportation or for delivery to persons and organizations set forth in subpart I, part 148, of this chapter, will be eligible for withdrawal under the sales ticket procedure specified in this paragraph.


(2) *Sales ticket content and handling.* Sales ticket withdrawals must be made only under a blanket permit to withdrawal (see § 19.6(d) of this chapter) and the sales ticket will serve as the equivalent of the supplementary withdrawal. A sales ticket is an invoice of the proprietor's design which will include:


(i) Serial number and date of preparation of each ticket;


(ii) Warehouse entry number or specific identifier, if approved by the port director;


(iii) Quantity of goods sold;


(iv) Brief description of the articles including the size of bottles;


(v) The full name and address of the purchaser. However, the port director may waive the address requirement for all merchandise except for alcoholic beverages in quantities in excess of 4 liters and cigarettes in quantities in excess of 3 cartons. Also, the address requirement is not applicable with respect to purchasers at airport duty-free enterprises; and 


(vi) A statement on the original copy (purchaser's copy) to the effect that goods purchased in a duty-free store will be subject to duty and/or tax with personal exemption if returned to the United States. At the time of purchase, the original sales ticket must be made out in the name of the purchaser and given to the purchaser. One copy of the sales ticket must be retained by the proprietor. This copy may be maintained electronically. A permit file copy will be attached to the parcel containing the purchased articles unless the proprietor has established and maintained an effective method to match the parcel containing the purchased articles with the purchaser. Additional copies may be retained by the proprietor.


(3) *Sales ticket register.* In addition to the records required in § 19.12(a) of this chapter, Class 9 warehouse proprietors must maintain a sales ticket register or similar accounting record for each warehouse entry. The sales ticket register of the proprietor must include the following information:


(i) Warehouse entry number;


(ii) Specific identifier, if applicable;


(iii) Sales ticket date and number;


(iv) Description;


(v) Quantity; and


(vi) Current balance.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17464, July 2, 1973]


