# ยง 60-300.62   Pre-enforcement notice and conciliation procedures.

(a) *Predetermination Notice.* If a compliance evaluation by OFCCP indicates preliminary findings of potential discrimination, OFCCP will issue a Predetermination Notice that describes the preliminary findings and provides the contractor an opportunity to respond. The Predetermination Notice may also include preliminary findings of other potential violations that OFCCP has identified at that stage of the review. After OFCCP issues the Predetermination Notice, the agency may identify additional violations and include them in a subsequent Notice of Violation or Show Cause Notice without amending the Predetermination Notice. OFCCP will provide the contractor an opportunity to conciliate additional violations identified in the Notice of Violation or Show Cause Notice. Any response to a Predetermination Notice must be received by OFCCP within 15 calendar days of receipt of the Notice, which deadline OFCCP may extend for good cause. If the contractor does not respond or OFCCP determines that the contractor's response and any additional investigation undertaken by the agency did not resolve the preliminary findings of potential discrimination or other violations identified in the Predetermination Notice, OFCCP will proceed to issue a Notice of Violation.


(b) *Notice of Violation.* If a compliance evaluation by OFCCP indicates a violation of the equal opportunity clause, OFCCP will issue a Notice of Violation to the contractor requiring corrective action. The Notice of Violation will identify the violations found and describe the recommended corrective actions. The Notice of Violation will invite the contractor to conciliate the matter and resolve the findings through a written conciliation agreement. After the Notice of Violation is issued, OFCCP may include additional violations in a subsequent Show Cause Notice without amendment to the Notice of Violation. OFCCP will provide the contractor an opportunity to conciliate additional violations identified in the Show Cause Notice.


(c) *Conciliation agreement.* If a compliance review, complaint investigation, or other review by OFCCP or its representative indicates a material violation of the equal opportunity clause, and:


(1) If the contractor, subcontractor, or bidder is willing to correct the violations and/or deficiencies; and


(2) If OFCCP or its representative determines that settlement (rather than referral for consideration of formal enforcement) is appropriate, a written conciliation agreement shall be required. The agreement shall provide for such remedial action as may be necessary to correct the violations and/or deficiencies identified, including, where appropriate (but not limited to), remedies such as back pay, salary adjustments, and retroactive seniority.


(d) *Show Cause Notice.* When the Director has reasonable cause to believe that a contractor has violated the equal opportunity clause the Director may issue a notice requiring the contractor to show cause, within 30 days, why monitoring, enforcement proceedings, or other appropriate action to ensure compliance should not be instituted. OFCCP may issue a Show Cause Notice without first issuing a Predetermination Notice or Notice of Violation when the contractor has failed to provide access to its premises for an on-site review or refused to provide access to witnesses, records, or other information. The Show Cause Notice will include each violation that OFCCP has identified at the time of issuance. Where OFCCP identifies additional violations after issuing a Show Cause Notice, OFCCP will modify or amend the Show Cause Notice.


(e) *Expedited conciliation option.* OFCCP may agree to waive the procedures set forth in paragraphs (a) and/or (b) of this section to enter directly into a conciliation agreement with a contractor. OFCCP may offer the contractor this expedited conciliation option, but may not require or insist that the contractor avail itself of the expedited conciliation option.



---

[N] [88 FR 51735, Aug. 4, 2023]














