# § 493.1832   Directed plan of correction and directed portion of a plan of correction.

(a) *Application.* CMS may impose a directed plan of correction as an alternative sanction for any laboratory that has condition level deficiencies. If CMS does not impose a directed plan of correction as an alternative sanction for a laboratory that has condition level deficiencies, it at least imposes a directed portion of a plan of correction when it imposes any of the following alternative sanctions:


(1) State onsite monitoring.


(2) Civil money penalty.


(3) Suspension of all or part of Medicare payments.


(b) *Procedures*—(1) *Directed plan of correction.* When imposing this sanction, CMS—


(i) Gives the laboratory prior notice of the sanction and opportunity to respond in accordance with § 493.1810;


(ii) Directs the laboratory to take specific corrective action within specific time frames in order to achieve compliance; and


(iii) May direct the laboratory to submit the names of laboratory clients for notification purposes, as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(2) *Directed portion of a plan of correction.* CMS may decide to notify clients of a sanctioned laboratory, because of the seriousness of the noncompliance (e.g., the existence of immediate jeopardy) or for other reasons. When imposing this sanction, CMS takes the following steps—


(i) Directs the laboratory to submit to CMS, the State survey agency, or other CMS agent, within 10 calendar days after the notice of the alternative sanction, a list of names and addresses of all physicians, providers, suppliers, and other clients who have used some or all of the services of the laboratory since the last certification inspection or within any other timeframe specified by CMS.


(ii) Within 30 calendar days of receipt of the information, may send to each laboratory client, via the State survey agency, a notice containing the name and address of the laboratory, the nature of the laboratory's noncompliance, and the kind and effective date of the alternative sanction.


(iii) Sends to each laboratory client, via the State survey agency, notice of the recission of an adverse action within 30 days of the rescission.


(3) *Notice of imposition of a principal sanction following the imposition of an alternative sanction.* If CMS imposes a principal sanction following the imposition of an alternative sanction, and for which CMS has already obtained a list of laboratory clients, CMS may use that list to notify the clients of the imposition of the principal sanction.


(c) *Duration of a directed plan of correction.* If CMS imposes a directed plan of correction, and on revisit it is found that the laboratory has not corrected the deficiencies within 12 months from the last day of inspection, the following rules apply:


(1) CMS cancels the laboratory's approval for Medicare payment of its services, and notifies the laboratory of CMS's intent to suspend, limit, or revoke the laboratory's CLIA certificate.


(2) The directed plan of correction continues in effect until the day suspension, limitation, or revocation of the laboratory's CLIA certificate.




