# ยง 70.3   Right to submit technical information.

(a) Any owner or lessee of property (applicant) who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a designated A, AO, A1-30, AE, AH, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE, and V Zones on a FHBM or a FIRM, may submit scientific or technical information to the Federal Insurance Administrator for the Federal Insurance Administrator's review.


(b) Scientific and technical information for the purpose of this part may include, but is not limited to the following:


(1) An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the appropriate recordation official (e.g. County Clerk, or Recorder of Deeds) indicating the official recordation and proper citation (Deed or Plat Book Volume and Page Numbers), or an equivalent identification where annotation of the deed or plat book is not the practice.


(2) A topographical map showing (i) ground elevation contours in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NVGD) of 1929, (ii) the total area of the property in question, (iii) the location of the structure or structures located on the property in question, (iv) the elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or structures and (v) an indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based upon information provided by any appropriate authoritative source, such as a Federal Agency, the appropriate state agency (e.g. Department of Water Resources), a County Water Control District, a County or City Engineer, a Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Study, or a determination by a Registered Professional Engineer;


(3) A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property in question;


(4) A certification by a Registered Professional Engineer or Licensed Land Surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base flood elevation.



---

[N] [41 FR 46991, Oct. 26, 1976. Redesignated at 44 FR 31177, May 31, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 44544 and 44553, Sept. 29, 1983; 49 FR 4751, Feb. 8, 1984; 50 FR 36028, Sept. 4, 1985; 51 FR 30317, Aug. 25, 1986; 53 FR 16280, May 6, 1988; 59 FR 53601, Oct. 25, 1994; 62 FR 55719, Oct. 27, 1997]




