# § 2805.10   How will I know whether the BLM has approved or denied my application or if my bid for a solar or wind energy development grant or lease is successful or unsuccessful?

(a) The BLM will send you a written response when it has made a decision on your application or if you are the successful bidder for a solar or wind energy development grant or lease. If we approve your application, we will send you an unsigned grant for your review and signature. If you are the successful bidder for a solar or wind energy lease inside a designated leasing area under § 2809.15, we may send you an unsigned lease for your review and signature. If your bid is unsuccessful, it will be refunded under § 2804.30(e)(4) or § 2809.14(d) and you will receive written notice from us.


(b) Your unsigned grant or lease document:


(1) Will include any terms, conditions, and stipulations that we determine to be in the public interest, such as modifying your proposed use or changing the route or location of the facilities;


(2) May include terms that prevent your use of the right-of-way until you have an approved Plan of Development (POD) and BLM has issued a Notice to Proceed; and


(3) Will impose a specific term for the grant or lease. Each grant or lease that we issue for 20 or more years will contain a provision requiring periodic review at the end of the twentieth year and subsequently at 10-year intervals. We may change the terms and conditions of the grant or lease, including leases issued under subpart 2809, as a result of these reviews in accordance with § 2805.15(e).


(c) If you agree with the terms and conditions of the unsigned grant or lease, you should sign and return it to the BLM with any payment required under § 2805.16. The BLM will issue the right-of-way by signing the grant or lease and transmitting it to you, if the regulations in this part, including § 2804.26, remain satisfied.




(d) If BLM denies your application, we will send you a written decision that will:


(1) State the reasons for the denial (*see* § 2804.26 of this part);


(2) Identify any processing costs you must pay (*see* § 2804.14 of this part); and


(3) Notify you of your right to appeal this decision under § 2801.10 of this part.



---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92212, Dec. 19, 2016; 89 FR 35679, May 1, 2024]




