# § 1264.4   Satisfaction of eligibility requirements.

(a) *HUD approval requirement.* An applicant shall be deemed to meet the requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430b(a)) and § 1264.3(a)(1) that it be approved under title II of the National Housing Act if it submits a current HUD Yearly Verification Report or other documentation issued by HUD stating that the Federal Housing Administration of HUD has approved the applicant as a mortgagee. 


(b) *Charter requirement.* An applicant shall be deemed to meet the requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Actand § 1264.3(a)(2) that it be a chartered institution having succession if it provides evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a copy of, or a citation to, the statutes and/or regulations under which the applicant was created, that: 


(1) The applicant is a government agency; or 


(2) The applicant is chartered under state, federal, local, tribal, or Alaskan Native village law as a corporation or other entity that has rights, characteristics, and powers under applicable law similar to those granted a corporation. 


(c) *Inspection and supervision requirement.* (1) An applicant shall be deemed to meet the inspection and supervision requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430b(a)) and § 1264.3(a)(3) if it provides evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a copy of, or a citation to, relevant statutes and/or regulations, that, pursuant to statute or regulation, the applicant is subject to the inspection and supervision of a federal, state, local, tribal, or Alaskan native village governmental agency. 


(2) An applicant shall be deemed to meet the inspection requirement if there is a statutory or regulatory requirement that the applicant be audited or examined periodically by a governmental agency or by an external auditor. 


(3) An applicant shall be deemed to meet the supervision requirement if the governmental agency has statutory or regulatory authority to remove an applicant's officers or directors for cause or otherwise exercise enforcement or administrative control over actions of the applicant. 


(d) *Mortgage activity requirement.* An applicant shall be deemed to meet the mortgage activity requirement in section 10b(a) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430b(a)) and § 1264.3(a)(4) if it provides documentary evidence satisfactory to the Bank, such as a financial statement or other financial documents that include the applicant's mortgage loan assets and their funding liabilities, that it lends its own funds as its principal activity in the mortgage field. For purposes of this paragraph, lending funds includes, but is not limited to, the purchase of whole mortgage loans. In the case of a federal, state, local, tribal, or Alaskan Native village government agency, appropriated funds shall be considered an applicant's own funds. An applicant shall be deemed to satisfy this requirement notwithstanding that the majority of its operations are unrelated to mortgage lending if its mortgage activity conforms to this requirement. An applicant that acts principally as a broker for others making mortgage loans, or whose principal activity is to make mortgage loans for the account of others, does not meet this requirement. 


(e) *Financial condition requirement.* An applicant shall be deemed to meet the financial condition requirement in § 1264.3(a)(5) if the Bank determines that advances may be safely made to the applicant. The applicant shall submit to the Bank copies of its most recent regulatory audit or examination report, or external audit report, and any other documentary evidence, such as financial or other information, that the Bank may require to make the determination. 



---

[N] [65 FR 44426, July 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 12849, Mar. 20, 2002; 70 FR 9510, Feb. 28, 2005; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010]




