# ยง 810.302   Definitions of other terms.

(a) *Conspicuous Admixture.* All matter other than canola, including but not limited to ergot, sclerotinia, and stones, which is conspicuous and readily distinguishable from canola and which remains in the sample after the removal of machine separated dockage. Conspicuous admixture is added to machine separated dockage in the computation of total dockage.


(b) *Damaged kernels.* Canola and pieces of canola that are heat-damaged, sprout-damaged, mold-damaged, distinctly green damaged, frost damaged, rimed damaged, or otherwise materially damaged.


(c) *Distinctly green kernels.* Canola and pieces of canola which, after being crushed, exhibit a distinctly green color. 


(d) *Dockage.* All matter other than canola that can be removed from the original sample by use of an approved device according to procedures prescribed in FGIS instructions. Also, underdeveloped, shriveled, and small pieces of canola kernels that cannot be recovered by properly rescreening or recleaning. Machine separated dockage is added to conspicuous admixture in the computation of total dockage.


(e) *Ergot.* Sclerotia (sclerotium, sing.) of the fungus, *Claviceps* species, which are associated with some seeds other than canola where the fungal organism has replaced the seed.


(f) *Heat-damaged kernels.* Canola and pieces of canola which, after being crushed, exhibit that they are discolored and damaged by heat.


(g) *Inconspicuous admixture.* Any seed which is difficult to distinguish from canola. This includes, but is not limited to, common wild mustard (*Brassica kaber* and *B. juncea*), domestic brown mustard (*Brassica juncea*), yellow mustard (*B. hirta*), and seed other than the mustard group.


(h) *Sclerotia (Sclerotium, sing.*). Dark colored or black resting bodies of the fungi *Sclerotinia* and *Claviceps.*

(i) *Sclerotinia.* Genus name which includes the fungus *Sclerotinia sclerotiorum* which produces sclerotia. Canola is only infrequently infected, and the sclerotia, unlike sclerotia of ergot, are usually associated within the stem of the plants.




