# ยง 60.311   Definitions and symbols.

(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Bake oven* means a device which uses heat to dry or cure coatings.


*Dip coating* means a method of applying coatings in which the part is submerged in a tank filled with the coatings.


*Electrodeposition (EDP)* means a method of applying coatings in which the part is submerged in a tank filled with the coatings and in which an electrical potential is used to enhance deposition of the coatings on the part.


*Electrostatic spray application* means a spray application method that uses an electrical potential to increase the transfer efficiency of the coatings.


*Flash-off area* means the portion of a surface coating operation between the coating application area and bake oven.


*Flow coating* means a method of applying coatings in which the part is carried through a chamber containing numerous nozzles which direct unatomized streams of coatings from many different angles onto the surface of the part.


*Organic coating* means any coating used in a surface coating operation, including dilution solvents, from which volatile organic compound emissions occur during the application or the curing process. For the purpose of this regulation, powder coatings are not included in this definition.


*Powder coating* means any surface coating which is applied as a dry powder and is fused into a continuous coating film through the use of heat.


*Spray application* means a method of applying coatings by atomizing and directing the atomized spray toward the part to be coated.


*Surface coating operation* means the system on a metal furniture surface coating line used to apply and dry or cure an organic coating on the surface of the metal furniture part or product. The surface coating operation may be a prime coat or a top coat operation and includes the coating application station(s), flash-off area, and curing oven.


*Transfer efficiency* means the ratio of the amount of coating solids deposited onto the surface of a part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.


*VOC content* means the proportion of a coating that is volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of coating solids.


*VOC emissions* means the mass of volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of applied coating solids, emitted from a metal furniture surface coating operation.


(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


