# § 1211.24   Product certification and labeling by manufacturers.

(a) *Form of permanent label of certification.* Manufacturers (including importers) shall issue certificates of compliance for automatic residential garage door operators manufactured after the effective date of the standard in the form of a permanent label which can reasonable be expected to remain on the operator during the entire period the operator is capable of being used. Such labeling shall be deemed to be a “certificate” of compliance as that term is used in section 14 of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063.


(b) *Exception for UL listed operators.* The certification labeling requirement of paragraph (a) of this section shall be satisfied by display of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) logo or listing mark, and compliance with the date marking requirements of UL Standard for Safety 325, on both the operator system and its container. Operators displaying the UL logo or listing mark and complying with the UL standard are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(c) *Contents of certification label.* The certification labels required by this section shall clearly and legibly contain the following information:


(1) The statement “Meets CPSC ____ (insert 1993 or later date of applicable standard) garage door operator entrapment protection requirements.”


(2) An identification of the production lot.


(d) *Placement of the label.* The label required by this section must be affixed to the operator. If the label is not immediately visible to the ultimate purchaser of the garage door operator prior to purchase because of packaging or other marketing practices, a second label that states: “Meets CPSC ____ (insert 1993 or later date of applicable standard) garage door operator entrapment protection requirements,” along with the month or week and year of manufacture must appear on the container or, if the container is not visible, on the promotional material used with the sale of the operator.




