# ยง 160.040-3   Materials, construction, workmanship, and performance requirements.

(a) *Materials.* All materials used in the construction of impulse-projected rocket type line-throwing appliances and equipment shall be of good quality suitable for the purpose intended, and shall conform to this subpart and to the specifications submitted by the manufacturer and approved by the Commandant. The choice of materials, when there is no specific requirement, shall be such that maximum safety to operating personnel will be maintained, and that resistance to corrosion by salt water or spray, shock, temperature change, and wear will be obtained. The use of dissimilar materials in combination shall be avoided wherever possible, but when such contacts are necessary, provision shall be made to prevent such deleterious effects as galvanic corrosion, freezing or buckling of moving parts, and loosening or tightening of joints due to differences in coefficients of thermal expansion.


(b) *Construction.* The design and construction shall be such as to obtain effective and safe operation aboard vessels at sea.


(c) *Workmanship.* Impulse-projected rocket type line-throwing appliances shall be of first class workmanship and shall be free from imperfections of manufacture affecting their appearance or that may affect their serviceability.


(d) *Performance.* When the rocket is fired from the appliance in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, it shall be capable of passing the tests specified by ยง 160.040-5(c).



---

[N] [CGD 76-048a, CGD 76-048b, 44 FR 73089, Dec. 17, 1979, as amended by USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58285, Sept. 29, 2014]




