# ยง 2200.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Act* means the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, 29 U.S.C. 651-678.


(b) *Commission, person,**employer,* and *employee* have the meanings set forth in section 3 of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 652.


(c) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's duly authorized representative.


(d) *Executive Secretary* means the Executive Secretary of the Commission.


(e) *Affected employee* means an employee of a cited employer who is exposed to or has access to the hazard arising out of the allegedly violative circumstances, conditions, practices, or operations.


(f) *Judge* means an Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to section 12(e) of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 661(e), as amended by Public Law 95-251, 92 Stat. 183, 184 (1978).


(g) *Authorized employee representative* means a labor organization that has a collective bargaining relationship with the cited employer and that represents affected employees who are members of the collective bargaining unit.


(h) *Representative* means any person, including an authorized employee representative, authorized by a party or intervenor to represent it in a proceeding.


(i) *Citation* means a written communication issued by the Secretary to an employer pursuant to section 9(a) of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 658(a).


(j) *Notification of proposed penalty* means a written communication issued by the Secretary to an employer pursuant to section 10(a) or (b) of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 659(a) or (b).


(k) *Day* means a calendar day.


(l) *Working day* means all days except Saturdays, Sundays, or Federal holidays.


(m) *Proceeding* means any proceeding before the Commission or before a Judge.


(n) *Pleadings* are complaints and answers filed under ยง 2200.34, statements of reasons and employers' responses filed under ยง 2200.38, and petitions for modification of abatement and objecting parties' responses filed under ยง 2200.37. A motion is not a pleading within the meaning of these rules.



---

[N] [84 FR 14558, Apr. 10, 2019; 84 FR 45654, Aug. 30, 2019]




