# § 400.6   Distribution of grant funds.

(a) *Funding allocation.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section—


(1) Grant funds for each State that meets the certification requirements set forth in § 400.4 will be allocated—


(i) 50 percent in the ratio which the population of the State bears to the total population of all the States, as shown by the latest available Federal census; and


(ii) 50 percent in the ratio which the public road mileage in each State bears to the total public road mileage in all States, as shown by the latest available Federal Highway Administration data.


(2) Grant funds for each Tribal Organization that meets the certification requirements set forth in § 400.4 will be allocated—


(i) 50 percent in the ratio to which the population of the Tribal Organization bears to the total population of all Tribal Organizations, as determined by the most recent population data on American Indian/Alaska Native Reservation of Statistical Area; and


(ii) 50 percent in the ratio which the public road mileage in each Tribal Organization bears to the total public road mileage in tribal areas, using the most recent national tribal transportation facility inventory data.


(3) *Supplemental project budgets.* As set forth in § 400.4(a)(3) and (b)(3), the ICO reserves the right to allocate additional funds based on supplemental project budgets.


(b)(1) *Minimum distribution.* The distribution to each qualifying State under paragraph (b) of this section shall not be less than $500,000, except that the distribution to American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands shall not be less than $250,000.


(2) *Tribal Organization set-aside.* Up to 2 percent of grant funds available under this part will be set aside for distribution to qualifying Tribal Organizations for a 911 grant. The distribution to each qualifying Tribal Organization shall not be more than $250,000. Any remaining funds after distribution to qualifying Tribal Organizations under this subparagraph will be released for distribution to the States consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Additional notices of funding opportunity.* Grant funds that are not distributed under paragraph (a) of this section may be made available to States and Tribal Organizations through subsequent Notices of Funding Opportunity.



---

[N] [83 FR 38059, Aug. 3, 2018, as amended at 83 FR 40156, Aug. 14, 2018]




