# ยง 982.45   Establishment of grade, size, and quality regulations.

(a) *Minimum standards.* No handler shall handle any inshell or shelled hazelnuts unless such inshell hazelnuts meet requirements of Oregon No. 1 grade and medium size (as defined in the Oregon Grade Standards Hazelnuts In Shell), and such shelled hazelnuts meet such requirements as are established by the Secretary on the basis of a recommendation of the Board, except as may be otherwise provided in ยง 982.57. These minimum standards may be modified by the Secretary on the basis of a recommendation of the Board or other information whenever he finds that such modification would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. Such minimum standards and the provisions of this part relating to the administration thereof shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the season average price of hazelnuts is above the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act.


(b) *Additional grade and size regulations.* When the season average price of hazelnuts is not determined to be above parity, the Secretary may establish additional grade and size regulations for inshell hazelnuts in the form of a more restrictive minimum standard than that specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or pack specifications as to grades and sizes that may be handled, if he finds, on the basis of a recommendation of the Board or other information, that such regulations would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.


(c) *Quality regulations.* For any marketing year, the Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such minimum quality and inspection requirements applicable to hazelnuts to facilitate the reduction of pathogens as will contribute to orderly marketing or will be in the public interest. In such marketing year, no handler shall handle hazelnuts unless they meet applicable minimum quality and inspection requirements as evidenced by certification acceptable to the Board.


(d) *Different regulations for different markets.* The Board may, with the approval of the Secretary, recommend different outgoing quality requirements for different markets. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish rules and regulations necessary and incidental to the administration of this provision.



---

[N] [24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 589, Jan. 14, 1972; 83 FR 52949, Oct. 19, 2018]




