# § 60.251   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (Act) and in subpart A of this part.


(a) *Anthracite* means coal that is classified as anthracite according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 60.17).


(b) *Bag leak detection system* means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust loadings) in the exhaust of a fabric filter to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.


(c) *Bituminous coal* means solid fossil fuel classified as bituminous coal by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference—*see* § 60.17).


(d) *Coal* means:


(1) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before May 27, 2009, all solid fossil fuels classified as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference—*see* § 60.17).


(2) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, all solid fossil fuels classified as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference—*see* § 60.17), and coal refuse.


(e) *Coal preparation and processing plant* means any facility (excluding underground mining operations) which prepares coal by one or more of the following processes: breaking, crushing, screening, wet or dry cleaning, and thermal drying.


(f) *Coal processing and conveying equipment* means any machinery used to reduce the size of coal or to separate coal from refuse, and the equipment used to convey coal to or remove coal and refuse from the machinery. This includes, but is not limited to, breakers, crushers, screens, and conveyor belts. Equipment located at the mine face is not considered to be part of the coal preparation and processing plant.


(g) *Coal refuse* means waste products of coal mining, physical coal cleaning, and coal preparation operations (e.g., culm, gob, *etc.*) containing coal, matrix material, clay, and other organic and inorganic material.


(h) *Coal storage system* means any facility used to store coal except for open storage piles.


(i) *Design controlled potential PM emissions rate* means the theoretical particulate matter (PM) emissions (Mg) that would result from the operation of a control device at its design emissions rate (grams per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm)), multiplied by the maximum design flow rate (dry standard cubic meter per minute (dscm/min)), multiplied by 60 (minutes per hour (min/hr)), multiplied by 8,760 (hours per year (hr/yr)), divided by 1,000,000 (megagrams per gram (Mg/g)).


(j) *Indirect thermal dryer* means a thermal dryer that reduces the moisture content of coal through indirect heating of the coal through contact with a heat transfer medium. If the source of heat (the source of combustion or furnace) is subject to another subpart of this part, then the furnace and the associated emissions are not part of the affected facility. However, if the source of heat is not subject to another subpart of this part, then the furnace and the associated emissions are part of the affected facility.


(k) *Lignite* means coal that is classified as lignite A or B according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 60.17).


(l) *Mechanical vent* means any vent that uses a powered mechanical drive (machine) to induce air flow.


(m) *Open storage pile* means any facility, including storage area, that is not enclosed that is used to store coal, including the equipment used in the loading, unloading, and conveying operations of the facility.


(n) *Operating day* means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which coal is prepared or processed at any time by the affected facility. It is not necessary that coal be prepared or processed the entire 24-hour period.


(o) *Pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment* means:


(1) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before May 27, 2009, any facility which classifies bituminous coal by size or separates bituminous coal from refuse by application of air stream(s).


(2) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, any facility which classifies coal by size or separates coal from refuse by application of air stream(s).


(p) *Potential combustion concentration* means the theoretical emissions (nanograms per joule (ng/J) or pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu) heat input) that would result from combustion of a fuel in an uncleaned state without emission control systems, as determined using Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part.


(q) *Subbituminous coal* means coal that is classified as subbituminous A, B, or C according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 60.17).


(r) *Thermal dryer* means:


(1) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before May 27, 2009, any facility in which the moisture content of bituminous coal is reduced by contact with a heated gas stream which is exhausted to the atmosphere.


(2) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, any facility in which the moisture content of coal is reduced by either contact with a heated gas stream which is exhausted to the atmosphere or through indirect heating of the coal through contact with a heated heat transfer medium.


(s) *Transfer and loading system* means any facility used to transfer and load coal for shipment.




