# § 560.215   Prohibitions on foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, an entity that is owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States is prohibited from knowingly engaging in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with the Government of Iran or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran that would be prohibited pursuant to this part if engaged in by a United States person or in the United States.


(b) *Definitions:* (1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, an entity is “owned or controlled” by a United States person if the United States person:


(i) Holds a 50 percent or greater equity interest by vote or value in the entity;


(ii) Holds a majority of seats on the board of directors of the entity; or


(iii) Otherwise controls the actions, policies, or personnel decisions of the entity.


(2) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term *knowingly* means that the person engages in the transaction with actual knowledge or reason to know.


(3) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a person is “subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran” if the person is organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, ordinarily resident in Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing.


(c) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any activity relating to a project:


(1) For the development of natural gas and the construction and operation of a pipeline to transport natural gas from Azerbaijan to Turkey and Europe;


(2) That provides to Turkey and countries in Europe energy security and energy independence from the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Iran; and


(3) That was initiated before August 10, 2012, pursuant to a production-sharing agreement, or an ancillary agreement necessary to further a production-sharing agreement, entered into with, or a license granted by, the government of a country other than Iran before August 10, 2012.


(d) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to the authorized intelligence activities of the United States Government.



---

[N] [77 FR 75848, Dec. 26, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 61825, Oct. 1, 2020]




