# ยง 1775.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to subparts A through D of this part.


*Association.* An entity, including a small city or town, that is eligible for RUS Water and Waste Disposal financial assistance in accordance with 7 CFR 1780.7 (a).


*Approval official.* Any individual with administrative and legal responsibility for Rural Development programs.




*Grant agreement.* RUS Guide 1775-1. The agreement outlines the terms and conditions of the grant awards and establishes the guidelines for administering the grant awards.


*Grantee.* The entity or organization receiving financial assistance directly from the RUS to carry out the project or program under these programs.


*Low Income.* Median household income (MHI) below 100 percent of the statewide non-metropolitan median household income (SNMHI).


*Regional.* A multi-State area or any multi-jurisdictional area within a State.


*Rural area.* Any area not in a city or town with a population in excess of 10,000, according to the most recent decennial Census of the United States, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).  If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.


*RUS.* The Rural Utilities Service, an Agency of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Solid Waste Management.* Refers to the operations, maintenance and the recycling of materials disposed of in landfills.


*State.* Any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Territory of Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*Technical Assistance.* Supervision, oversight, or training by an organization for the practical solution of a problem or need of an association as defined in this section.



---

[N] [70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 9862, Feb. 24, 2015; 87 FR 38643, June 29, 2022; 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]




