# § 190.26   Recordkeeping.

(a) *Direct identification.* (1) *Records required.* Each manufacturer or producer under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) must keep records to allow the verifying CBP official to trace all articles manufactured or produced for exportation or destruction with drawback, from importation, through manufacture or production, to exportation or destruction. To this end, these records must specifically establish:


(i) The date or inclusive dates of manufacture or production;


(ii) The quantity, identity, and 8-digit HTSUS subheading number(s) of the imported duty-paid merchandise or drawback products used in or appearing in (*see* § 190.23) the articles manufactured or produced;


(iii) The quantity, if any, of the non-drawback merchandise used, when these records are necessary to determine the quantity of imported duty-paid merchandise or drawback product used in the manufacture or production of the exported or destroyed articles or appearing in them;


(iv) The quantity and description of the articles manufactured or produced;


(v) The quantity of waste incurred, if applicable; and


(vi) That the articles on which drawback is claimed were exported or destroyed within 5 years after the importation of the duty-paid merchandise, without having been used in the United States prior to such exportation or destruction. (If the articles were commingled after manufacture or production, their identity may be maintained in the manner prescribed in § 190.14.)


(2) *Accounting.* The merchandise and articles to be exported or destroyed will be accounted for in a manner which will enable the manufacturer, producer, or claimant:


(i) To determine, and the CBP official to verify, the applicable import entry and any transfers of the merchandise associated with the claim; and


(ii) To identify with respect to that import entry, and any transfers of the merchandise, the imported merchandise or drawback products used in manufacture or production.


(b) *Substitution.* The records of the manufacturer or producer of articles manufactured or produced in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) must establish the facts in paragraph (a)(1)(i), (iv) through (vi) of this section, and:


(1) The quantity, identity, and specifications of the merchandise designated (imported duty-paid, or drawback product);


(2) The quantity, identity, and specifications of the substituted merchandise before its use to manufacture or produce (or appearing in) the exported or destroyed articles;


(3) That, within 5 years after the date of importation of the imported duty-paid merchandise, the manufacturer or producer used the designated merchandise in manufacturing or production and that during the same5-year period it manufactured or produced the exported or destroyed articles; and


(4) If the designated merchandise is a sought chemical element, as defined in § 190.2, that was contained in imported material and a substitution drawback claim is made based on that chemical element:


(i) The duties, taxes, and fees paid on the imported material must be apportioned among its constituent components. The claim on the chemical element that is the designated merchandise must be limited to the duty apportioned to that element on a unit-for-unit attribution using the unit of measure set forth in the HTSUS that is applicable to the imported material. If the material is a compound with other constituents, including impurities, and the purity of the compound in the imported material is shown by satisfactory analysis, that purity, converted to a decimal equivalent of the percentage, is multiplied against the entered amount of the material to establish the amount of pure compound. The amount of the element in the pure compound is to be determined by use of the atomic weights of the constituent elements and converting to the decimal equivalent of their respective percentages and multiplying that decimal equivalent against the above-determined amount of pure compound.


(ii) The amount claimed as drawback based on the sought chemical element must be deducted from the amounts paid on the imported material that may be claimed on any other drawback claim.


*Example to paragraph (b)(4):* Synthetic rutile that is shown by appropriate analysis in the entry papers to be 91.7% pure titanium dioxide is imported and dutiable at a 5% ad valorem duty rate. The amount of imported synthetic rutile is 30,000 pounds with an entered value of $12,000. The total duty paid is $600. Titanium in the synthetic rutile is designated as the basis for a drawback claim under 19 U.S.C. 1313(b). The amount of titanium dioxide in the synthetic rutile is determined by converting the purity percentage (91.7%) to its decimal equivalent (.917) and multiplying the entered amount of synthetic rutile (30,000 pounds) by that decimal equivalent (.917 × 30,000 = 27,510 pounds of titanium dioxide contained in the 30,000 pounds of imported synthetic rutile). The titanium, based on atomic weight, represents 59.93% of the constituents in titanium dioxide. Multiplying that percentage, converted to its decimal equivalent, by the amount of titanium dioxide determines the titanium content of the imported synthetic rutile (.5993 × 27,510 pounds of titanium dioxide = 16,486.7 pounds of titanium contained in the imported synthetic rutile). Therefore, up to 16,486.7 pounds of titanium is available to be designated as the basis for drawback. As the per unit duty paid on the synthetic rutile is calculated by dividing the duty paid ($600) by the amount of imported synthetic rutile (30,000 pounds), the per unit duty is two cents of duty per pound of the imported synthetic rutile ($600 ÷ 30,000 = $0.02). The duty on the titanium is calculated by multiplying the amount of titanium contained in the imported synthetic rutile by two cents of duty per pound (16,486.7 × $0.02 = $329.73 duty apportioned to the titanium). The product is then multiplied by 99% to determine the maximum amount of drawback available ($329.73 × .99 = $326.44). If an exported titanium alloy ingot weighs 17,000 pounds, in which 16,000 pounds of titanium was used to make the ingot, drawback is determined by multiplying the duty per pound ($0.02) by the weight of the titanium contained in the ingot (16,000 pounds) to calculate the duty available for drawback ($0.02 × 16,000 = $320.00). Because only 99% of the duty can be claimed, drawback is determined by multiplying this available duty amount by 99% (.99 × $320.00 = $316.80). As the oxygen content of the titanium dioxide is 45% of the synthetic rutile, if oxygen is the designated merchandise on another drawback claim, 45% of the duty claimed on the synthetic rutile would be available for drawback based on the substitution of oxygen.


(c) *Valuable waste records.* When waste has a value and the manufacturer, producer, or claimant, has not limited the claims based on the quantity of imported or substituted merchandise appearing in the articles exported or destroyed, the manufacturer or producer must keep records to show the market value of the merchandise used to manufacture or produce the exported or destroyed article, as well as the quantity and market value of the waste incurred (as provided for in the definition of relative value in § 190.2). In such records, the quantity of merchandise identified or designated for drawback, under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) or 1313(b), respectively, must be based on the quantity of merchandise actually used to manufacture or produce the exported or destroyed articles. The waste replacement reduction will be determined by reducing from the quantity of merchandise actually used by the amount of merchandise which the value of the waste would replace.


(d) *Purchase of manufactured or produced articles for exportation or destruction.* Where the claimant purchases articles from the manufacturer or producer and exports or destroys them, the claimant must maintain records to document the transfer of articles received.


(e) *Multiple claimants*—(1) *General.* Multiple claimants may file for drawback with respect to the same export or destruction (for example, if an automobile is exported, where different parts of the automobile have been produced by different manufacturers under drawback conditions and the exporter waives the right to claim drawback and assigns such right to the manufacturers under § 190.82).


(2) *Procedures*—(i) *Submission of letter.* Each drawback claimant must file a separate letter, as part of the claim, describing the component article to which each claim will relate. Each letter must show the name of the claimant and bear a statement that the claim will be limited to its respective component article. The exporter or destroyer must endorse the letters, as required, to show the respective interests of the claimants.


(ii) *Blanket waivers and assignments of drawback rights.* Exporters may waive and assign their drawback rights for all, or any portion, of their exportations with respect to a particular commodity for a given period to a drawback claimant.


(f) *Retention of records.* Pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1508(c)(3), all records required to be kept by the manufacturer, producer, or claimant with respect to drawback claims, and records kept by others to complement the records of the manufacturer, producer, or claimant with respect to drawback claims must be retained for 3 years after the date of liquidation of the related claims (under 19 U.S.C. 1508, the same records may be subject to a different retention period for different purposes).




