# § 147.2550   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V and VI wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Wyoming, except those located on Indian lands, is the program administered by Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, approved by EPA pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) section 1422. The effective date of this program is August 17, 1983. The UIC Program for Class VI wells in Wyoming, except those located on Indian lands, is the program administered by Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, approved by EPA pursuant to the SDWA section 1422. The effective date of this program is October 9, 2020. The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, V, and VI wells in the State of Wyoming, except those located on Indian lands, consists of the following elements, as submitted to the EPA in the State's program application and program revision application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the state statutes and regulations approved by the EPA for inclusion in “*EPA-Approved Wyoming SDWA § 1422 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, III, IV, V and VI,”* dated March 31, 2020, and listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for Wyoming. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the State of Wyoming's regulations that are incorporated by reference may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop Street, MSC 8WD-SDU, Denver, Colorado 80202 and the Water Docket, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC) EPA West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20460. If you wish to obtain materials from the EPA Regional Office, please call (303) 312-7226; for materials from a docket in the EPA Headquarters Library, please call the Water Docket at (202) 566-2426. You may also inspect the materials at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov,* or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for select sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered program:


(1) Article 9, Underground Water, Wyoming Statutes sections 41-3-901 through 41-3-938 (September 1982); 


(2) Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act, Wyoming Statutes sections 9-4-101 through 9-4-115 (1988); 


(3) Department of Environmental Quality Rules of Practice and Procedure (1982). 


(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA, Region VIII and the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 26, 1983.


(2) Letter from Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII, to Governor of Wyoming, May 21, 1982, with Attachment (regarding aquifer exemptions);


(3) Letter from Governor of Wyoming to Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program—Aquifer Exemption Issues,” June 7, 1982;


(4) Letter from Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII to Governor of Wyoming, “Re: Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program—Aquifer Exemption Issues,” June 25, 1982;


(5) Letter from Director, Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, to Acting Director, Water Management Division, EPA Region VIII, December 1, 1982.


(6) Memorandum of Agreement addendum between EPA, Region VIII, and Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 20, 2020.


(7) Letter from Governor of Wyoming to Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII, “Re: UIC Program Class VI Application,” January 23, 2020.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Attorney General's Statement—Wyoming Statutory and Regulatory Authority for Assumption of the Underground Injection Control Program Pursuant to the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act,” signed by Attorney General and Assistant Attorney General for the State of Wyoming, September 22, 1982;


(2) Letter from Attorney General for the State of Wyoming to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Wyoming Assumption of the UIC Program—$36, Chapter IX, Wyoming Water Quality Rules and Regulations,” November 24, 1982.


(3) “Attorney General's Statement—“Attorney General's Statement to Accompany Wyoming's Underground Injection Control Program Class VI Primacy Application,” signed by Attorney General and Assistant Attorney General for the State of Wyoming, January 9, 2020.


(4) Letter from the Attorney General for the State of Wyoming to Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Wyoming Underground Injection Control Program Class VI Regulations,” October 25, 2019.


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or amendment thereto, and the Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the revision application or amendment thereto.


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or amendment thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43092, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9421, Mar. 6, 1991]




