# ยง 165.515   Safety Zone: Cape Fear River, Wilmington, North Carolina.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone:


(1) The waters of the Cape Fear River bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(2) The safety zone boundary can be described as follows: starting at the stern of the Battleship USS NORTH CAROLINA, across the Cape Fear River to the north end of the Coast Guard moorings, down along the east bank of the Cape Fear River to the bow of the tug CAPTAIN JOHN TAXIS Memorial (Chandler's Wharf), back across the Cape Fear River to Eagle Island, and then up along the west bank of the Cape Fear River to the stern of the Battleship USS NORTH CAROLINA.


(b) *Definitions. The designated representative of the Captain of the Port* is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port, North Carolina to act on his behalf.


(c) *General information.* The Captain of the Port and the Command Duty Officer at Sector North Carolina can be contacted at telephone number (877) 229-0770 or (910) 772-2200. The Coast Guard Patrol Commander and the senior boarding officer on each vessel enforcing the safety zone can be contacted on VHF-FM channels 16 and 81.


(d) *Regulation.* Except for persons or vessels authorized by the Coast Guard Patrol Commander, no person or vessel may enter or remain in the regulated area.


(1) The operator of any vessel in the immediate vicinity of this safety zone shall:


(i) Stop the vessel immediately upon being directed to do so by any commissioned, warrant, or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign.


(ii) Proceed as directed by any commissioned, warrant, or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign.


(2) Any spectator vessel may anchor outside of the regulated area specified in paragraph (a) of the section, but may not block a navigable channel.


(e) *Effective date.* The Captain of the Port will issue a Marine Safety Information Broadcast and a Notice to Mariners to notify the public when this section is in effect.



---

[N] [59 FR 33200, June 28, 1994, as amended by USCG-2000-7223, 65 FR 40059, June 29, 2000; USCG-2011-0368, 76 FR 26605, May 9, 2011]






