# § 3715.5   What standards apply to my use or occupancy?

(a) Your use or occupancy must be reasonably incident. In all uses and occupancies, you must prevent or avoid “unnecessary or undue degradation” of the public lands and resources. 


(b) Your uses must conform to all applicable federal and state environmental standards and you must have obtained all required permits before beginning, as required under 43 CFR part 3800. This means getting permits and authorizations and meeting standards required by state and federal law, including, but not limited to, the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*), Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*), and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.*), as required under 43 CFR part 3800.


(c) Your occupancies must conform to all applicable federal and state environmental standards and you must have obtained all required permits before beginning, as required under this subpart and 43 CFR part 3800. This means getting permits and authorizations and meeting standards required by state and federal law, including, but not limited to, the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*), Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*), and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.*), as required under this subpart and 43 CFR part 3800.


(d) If your prospecting or exploration activities involve only surface activities, you must not place permanent structures on the public lands. Any temporary structures you place on the public lands during prospecting or exploration will be allowed only for the duration of the activities, unless BLM expressly and in writing allows them to remain longer. If your prospecting or exploration activities involve subsurface activities, you may place permanent structures on the public lands, if BLM concurs. 


(e) All permanent and temporary structures you place on the public lands must conform with the applicable state or local building, fire, and electrical codes, and occupational safety and health and mine safety standards. If state or local codes require, you must obtain a certificate of occupancy or its equivalent before you begin use or occupancy involving permanent structures. If state or local law requires, you must also acquire appropriate sewerage and sanitation permits before the occupancy or use of a permanent structure placed on the public lands. 




