# ยง 210.8   Financial institutions.

(a) *Status as a Treasury depositary.* The origination or receipt of an entry subject to this part does not render a financial institution a Treasury depositary. A financial institution shall not advertise itself as a Treasury depositary on such basis.


(b) *Liability.* Notwithstanding ACH Rules Subsections 2.4.5, 2.8.4, 4.3.5, 2.9.2, 3.2.2, and 3.13.3, if the Federal Government sustains a loss as a result of a financial institution's failure to handle an entry in accordance with this part, the financial institution shall be liable to the Federal Government for the loss, up to the amount of the entry, except as otherwise provided in this section. A financial institution shall not be liable to any third party for any loss or damage resulting directly or indirectly from an agency's error or omission in originating an entry. Nothing in this section shall affect any obligation or liability of a financial institution under Regulation E, 12 CFR part 1005, or the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, 12 U.S.C. 1693 *et seq.*

(c) *Acquittance of the financial institution.* The final crediting of the correct amount of an entry received and processed by the Federal Reserve Bank and posted to the TGA shall constitute full acquittance of the ODFI and the originator for the amount of the entry. Full acquittance shall not occur if the entries do not balance, are incomplete, are incorrect, or are incapable of being processed. In the case of funds collected by an agency through origination of a debit entry, full acquittance shall not occur until the underlying payment becomes final.


(d) *Notice of misdirected payment.* If an RDFI becomes aware that an agency has originated an ACH credit entry to an account that is not owned by the payee whose name appears in the ACH payment information, the RDFI shall promptly notify the agency. An RDFI that originates a Notification of Change (NOC) entry with the correct account and/or Routing and Transit Number information, or returns the original ACH credit entry to the agency with an appropriate return reason code, shall be deemed to have satisfied this requirement.



---

[N] [64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 13189, Mar. 19, 2004; 70 FR 67367, Nov. 7, 2005; 79 FR 42981, July 24, 2014; 79 FR 73841, Dec. 12, 2014; 82 FR 42609, Sept. 11, 2017]




