# § 13.21   Discovery.

(a) *In general.* (1) The following types of discovery are authorized:


(i) Requests for production of Documents for inspection and copying;


(ii) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant Document or of the truth of any relevant fact;


(iii) Written interrogatories; and


(iv) Depositions.


(2) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ will regulate the timing of discovery.


(b) *Documents defined.* (1) For the purpose of this section and §§ 13.22 and 13.23, the term *Documents* includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence.


(2) Nothing in this part will be interpreted to require the creation of a Document.


(c) *Motions for discovery.* (1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion. Such a motion will be accompanied by a copy of the request for production of Documents, request for admissions, or interrogatories or, in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.


(2) Within ten days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion or a motion for protective order as provided in § 13.24.


(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if he or she finds that the discovery sought:


(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;


(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;


(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and


(iv) Does not seek privileged information.


(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.


(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 13.24.


(d) *Depositions.* (1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ will issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce Documents. The subpoena will specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held. Deposition requests for senior level DHS officials (including career and non-career senior executive level employees) shall not be approved absent showing of compelling need that cannot be met by any other means.


(2) The party seeking to depose will serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 13.8.


(3) The deponent may file a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within ten days of service. If the ALJ has not acted on such a motion by the return date, such date will be suspended pending the ALJ's final action on the motion.


(4) The party seeking to depose will provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it will Make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.


(e) Each party will bear its own costs of discovery.




