# § 4290.100   Business form.

(a) *Newly-formed for-profit.* An Applicant for a RBIC license must be a newly formed for-profit entity or, subject to § 4290.150, a newly formed for-profit subsidiary of an existing entity. It must be organized under the law of a State. An Applicant may be organized as a corporation (“Corporate RBIC”), a limited partnership (“Partnership RBIC”), or a limited liability company (“LLC RBIC”).


(b) *Purpose.* An Applicant must be organized solely for the purpose of performing the functions and conducting the activities contemplated under the Act: making Developmental Capital investments and providing Operational Assistance to eligible Smaller Enterprises.


(c) *Articles.* The RBIC's Articles—


(1) Must specify in general terms:


(i) The purposes for which the RBIC is formed;


(ii) The name of the RBIC;


(iii) The Rural Area or Areas in which it will operate;


(iv) The place where the RBIC's headquarters will be located; and


(v) The amount and classes of the RBIC's ownership interests.


(2) May contain any other provisions consistent with the Act that the RBIC may determine is appropriate to adopt to regulate its business and the conduct of its affairs.


(3) Are subject to the Agency's approval.


(d) *Duration*—(1) *Partnership RBICs.* If you are a Partnership RBIC:


(i) You must have a minimum duration of 10 years, or two years following the maturity of your last-maturing Leverage security, whichever is longer. After 10 years, if all Leverage has been repaid or redeemed and all amounts due the Agency, its agent, or Trustee have been paid, the Partnership RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your partners;


(ii) None of your general partner(s) may be removed or replaced by your limited partners without prior written approval of the Agency;


(iii) Any transferee of, or successor in interest to, your general partner shall have only the rights and liabilities of a limited partner prior to the Agency's written approval of such transfer or succession; and


(iv) You must incorporate all the provisions in this paragraph (d) in your limited partnership agreement.


(2) *LLC RBICs.* If you are a LLC RBIC, you must have a minimum duration of 10 years, or two years following the maturity of your last-maturing Leverage security, whichever is longer. After 10 years, if all Leverage has been repaid or redeemed and all amounts due the Agency, its agent, or Trustee have been paid, the LLC RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your members.


(3) *Corporate RBICs.* If you are a Corporate RBIC, you must have a duration of not less than 30 years unless earlier dissolved by the shareholders, except that the Corporate RBIC must not dissolve until at least two years following the maturity of your last-maturing Leverage security.




