# ยง 3020.123   Initial and reply briefs.

(a) *When filed.* At the close of the taking of testimony in any proceeding, participants may file initial and reply briefs. The dates for filing initial and reply briefs shall be established in the procedural schedule issued pursuant to ยง 3020.110. Such dates may be modified by subsequent order issued by the Commission or the presiding officer.


(b) *Contents.* Each brief filed with the Commission shall be as concise as possible and shall include the following in the order indicated:


(1) A subject index with page references, and a list of all cases and authorities relied upon, arranged alphabetically, with references to the pages where the citation appears;


(2) A concise statement of the case from the viewpoint of the filing participant;


(3) A clear, concise, and definitive statement of the position of the filing participant as to the Postal Service request;


(4) A discussion of the evidence, reasons, and authorities relied upon with precise references to the record and the authorities; and


(5) Proposed findings and conclusions with appropriate references to the record or the prior discussion of the evidence and authorities relied upon.


(c) *Length.* Initial briefs filed by all participants other than the Postal Service shall not exceed 14,000 words. Initial briefs filed by the Postal Service shall not exceed 21,000 words. Reply briefs filed by all participants other than the Postal Service shall not exceed 7,000 words. Reply briefs filed by the Postal Service shall not exceed 10,500 words. All participants shall attest to the number of words contained in their brief. Tables of cases, tables of citations, and appendices shall not be considered as part of the word count.


(d) *Include by reference.* Briefs before the Commission or a presiding officer shall be completely self-contained and shall not incorporate by reference any portion of any other brief, pleading, or document.


(e) *Excerpts from the record.* Testimony and exhibits shall not be quoted or included in briefs except for short excerpts pertinent to the argument presented.


(f) *Filing and service.* Briefs shall be filed in the form and manner and served as required by subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter.


(g) *Statements of Position.* As an alternative to filing a formal brief, a participant may file a Statement of Position. To the extent practicable, the contents of each Statement of Position should include a clear, concise, and definitive statement of the position of the filing participant as to the Postal Service request, as well as any points or factors in the existing record that support the participant's position. Statements of Position shall be limited to the existing record and shall not include any new evidentiary material.




