# § 464.02   General definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in 40 CFR part 401, the following definitions apply to this part:


(a) *Aluminum casting.* The remelting of aluminum or an aluminum alloy to form a cast intermediate or final product by pouring or forcing the molten metal into a mold, except for ingots, pigs, or other cast shapes related to nonferrous (primary and secondary) metals manufacturing (40 CFR part 421) and aluminum forming (40 CFR part 467). Processing operations following the cooling of castings not covered under aluminum forming, except for grinding scrubber operations which are covered here, are covered under the electroplating and metal finishing point source categories (40 CFR parts 413 and 433).


(b) *Copper casting.* The remelting of copper or a copper alloy to form a cast intermediate or final product by pouring or forcing the molten metal into a mold, except for ingots, pigs, or other cast shapes related to nonferrous (primary and secondary) metals manufacturing (40 CFR part 421). Also excluded are casting of beryllium alloys in which beryllium is present at 0.1 or greater percent by weight and precious metals alloys in which the precious metal is present at 30 or greater percent by weight. Except for grinding scrubber operations which are covered here, processing operations following the cooling of castings are covered under the electroplating and metal finishing point source categories (40 CFR parts 413 and 433).


(c) *Ferrous casting.* The remelting of ferrous metals to form a cast intermediate or finished product by pouring the molten metal into a mold. Except for grinding scrubber operations which are covered here, processing operations following the cooling of castings are covered under the electroplating and metal finishing point source categories (40 CFR parts 413 and 433).


(d) *Zinc casting.* The remelting of zinc or zinc alloy to form a cast intermediate or final product by pouring or forcing the molten metal into a mold, except for ingots, pigs, or other cast shapes related to nonferrous (primary) metals manufacturing (40 CFR part 421) and nonferrous metals forming (40 CFR part 471). Processing operations following the cooling of castings not covered under nonferrous metals forming are covered under the electroplating and metal finishing point source categories (40 CFR parts 413 and 433).


(e) *POTW* shall mean “publicly owned treatment works.”


(f) A *non-continuous discharger* is a plant which does not discharge pollutants during specific periods of time for reasons other than treatment plant upset, such periods being at least 24 hours in duration. A typical example of a non-continuous discharger is a plant where wastewaters are routinely stored for periods in excess of 24 hours to be treated on a batch basis. For non-continuous discharging direct discharging plants, NPDES permit authorities shall apply the mass-based annual average effluent limitations or standards and the concentration-based maximum day and maximum for monthly average effluent limitations or standards established in the regulations. POTWs may elect to establish concentration-based standards for non-continuous discharges to POTWs. They may do so by establishing concentration-based pretreatment standards equivalent to the mass-based standards provided in §§ 464.15, 464.16, 464.25, 464.26, 464.35, 464.36, 464.45, and 464.46 of the regulations. Equivalent concentration standards may be established by following the procedures outlined in § 464.03(b).


(g) *Total phenols* shall mean total phenolic compounds as measured by the procedure listed in 40 CFR part 136 (distillation followed by colorimetric—4AAP).


(h) *Sm 
* shall mean standard cubic meters.


(i) *SCF* shall means standard cubic feet.


(j) *Total toxic organics* (TTO) shall mean the sum of the mass of each of the toxic organic compounds which are found at a concentration greater than 0.010 mg/l. The specialized definitions for each subpart contain a discrete list of toxic organic compounds comprising TTO for each process segment in which TTO is regulated.




