# § 985.103   SEMAP score and overall performance rating.

(a) *High performer rating.* PHAs with SEMAP scores of at least 90 percent shall be rated high performers under SEMAP. PHAs that achieve an overall performance rating of high performer may receive national recognition by the Department and may be given competitive advantage under notices of fund availability.


(b) *Standard rating.* PHAs with SEMAP scores of 60 to 89 percent shall be rated standard.


(c) *Troubled rating.* PHAs with SEMAP scores of less than 60 percent shall be rated troubled.


(d) *Modified rating on an indicator.* A rating on any of the indicators at §§ 985.3(a) through 985.3(h) will be subject to change after HUD receives the PHA's annual audit report or after HUD conducts a confirmatory review if the audit report or the confirmatory review report contains information that the PHA's SEMAP certification concerning an indicator is not accurate.


(e) *Modified or withheld overall rating.* (1) Notwithstanding an PHA's SEMAP score, HUD may modify or withhold an PHA's overall performance rating when warranted by circumstances which have bearing on the SEMAP indicators such as an PHA's appeal of its overall rating, adverse litigation, a conciliation agreement under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, fair housing and equal opportunity monitoring and compliance review findings, fraud or misconduct, audit findings or substantial noncompliance with program requirements.


(2) Notwithstanding an PHA's SEMAP score, if the latest IA report submitted for the PHA under the Single Audit Act indicates that the auditor is unable to provide an opinion as to whether the PHA's financial statements are presented fairly in all material respects in conformity with generally accepted accounting principals, or an opinion that the schedule of expenditures of Federal awards is presented fairly in all material respects in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole, the PHA will automatically be given an overall performance rating of troubled and the PHA will be subject to the requirements at § 985.107.


(3) When HUD modifies or withholds a rating for any reason, it shall explain in writing to the PHA the reasons for the modification or for withholding the rating. 



---

[N] [63 FR 48555, Sept. 10, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 40498, July 26, 1999]




