# § 784.21   Fish and wildlife information.

(a) *Resource information.* Each application shall include fish and wildlife resource information for the permit area and adjacent area.


(1) The scope and level of detail for such information shall be determined by the regulatory authority in consultation with State and Federal agencies with responsibilities for fish and wildlife and shall be sufficient to design the protection and enhancement plan required under paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Site-specific resource information necessary to address the respective species or habitats shall be required when the permit area or adjacent area is likely to include:


(i) Listed or proposed endangered or threatened species of plants or animals or their critical habitats listed by the Secretary under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*), or those species or habitats protected by similar State statutes;


(ii) Habitats of unusually high value for fish and wildlife such as important streams, wetlands, riparian areas, cliffs supporting raptors, areas offering special shelter or protection, migration routes, or reproduction and wintering areas; or


(iii) Other species or habitats identified through agency consultation as requiring special protection under State or Federal law.


(b) *Protection and enhancement plan.* Each application shall include a description of how, to the extent possible using the best technology currently available, the operator will minimize disturbances and adverse impacts on fish and wildlife and related environmental values, including compliance with the Endangered Species Act, during the surface coal mining and reclamation operations and how enhancement of these resources will be achieved where practicable. This description shall—


(1) Be consistent with the requirements of § 817.97 of this chapter;


(2) Apply, at a minimum, to species and habitats identified under paragraph (a) of this section; and


(3) Include—


(i) Protective measures that will be used during the active mining phase of operation. Such measures may include the establishment of buffer zones, the selective location and special design of haul roads and powerlines, and the monitoring of surface water quality and quantity; and


(ii) Enhancement measures that will be used during the reclamation and postmining phase of operation to develop aquatic and terrestrial habitat. Such measures may include restoration of streams and other wetlands, retention of ponds and impoundments, establishment of vegetation for wildlife food and cover, and the placement of perches and nest boxes. Where the plan does not include enhancement measures, a statement shall be given explaining why enhancement is not practicable.


(c) *Fish and Wildlife Service review.* Upon request, the regulatory authority shall provide the resource information required under paragraph (a) of this section and the protection and enhancement plan required under paragraph (b) of this section to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service Regional or Field Office for their review. This information shall be provided within 10 days of receipt of the request from the Service.



---

[N] [52 FR 47359, Dec. 11, 1987, as amended at 81 FR 93355, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54958, Nov. 17, 2017]




