# ยง 52b.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 201 *et seq.*).


*Construction* means the construction of new buildings or the modernization of, or the completion of shell space in, existing buildings (including the installation of fixed equipment), but excluding the cost of land acquisition and off-site improvements.


*Construction grant* means funds awarded for construction in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act and this part.


*Director* means the Director of NIH or the director of an NIH national research institute, center, or other component of NIH, authorized to award grants for construction under the applicable provisions of the Act, and any official to whom the authority involved is delegated.


*Federal share* with respect to any construction project means the proportion, expressed as a percentage, of the cost of a project to be paid by a grant award under the Act.


*HHS, DHHS,* and *Department* mean the Department of Health and Human Services.


*Institute* means any national research institute, center, or other agency of the National Institutes of Health.


*Modernization* means the alteration, renovation, remodeling, improvement, expansion, and/or repair of existing buildings and the provision of equipment necessary to make the building suitable for use for the purposes of the particular program.


*NIH* means the National Institutes of Health and its organizational components that award construction grants.


*Nonprofit* as applied to any agency or institution means an agency or institution which is a corporation or an association, no part of the net earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


*Project* means the particular construction activity which is supported by a grant under this part.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any official to whom the authority involved is delegated.




