# ยง 683.110   What is the period of performance of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?

(a) The statutory period of availability for expenditure for WIOA title I grants will be established as the period of performance for such grants unless otherwise provided in the grant agreement or cooperative agreement. All funds must be fully expended by the expiration of the period of performance or they risk losing their availability. Unless otherwise authorized in a grant or cooperative agreement or subsequent modification, recipients must expend funds with the shortest period of availability first.


(b) *Grant funds expended by States.* Funds allotted to States under WIOA secs. 127(b) and 132(b) for any program year are available for expenditure by the State receiving the funds only during that program year and the 2 succeeding program years as identified in ยง 683.100.


(c) *Grant funds expended by local areas as defined in WIOA sec. 106.* (1)(i) Funds allocated by a State to a local area under WIOA secs. 128(b) and 133(b), for any program year are available for expenditure only during that program year and the succeeding program year;


(ii) *Pay-for-Performance exception.* Funds used to carry out WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies will remain available until expended in accordance with WIOA sec. 189(g)(2)(D).


(2) Funds which are not expended by a local area(s) in the 2-year period described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, must be returned to the State. Funds so returned are available for expenditure by State and local recipients and subrecipients only during the third program year of availability in accordance with WIOA secs. 128(c) and 132(c). These funds are available for only the following purposes:


(i) For statewide projects; or


(ii) For distribution to local areas which had fully expended their allocation of funds for the same program year within the 2-year period.


(d) *Native American programs.* Funds awarded by the Department under WIOA sec. 166(c) are available for expenditure for the period identified in the grant or contract award document, which will not exceed 4 years.


(e) *Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs.* Funds awarded by the Department under WIOA sec. 167 are available for expenditure for the period identified in the grant award document, which will not exceed 4 years.


(f) *Evaluations and research.* Funds awarded by the Department under WIOA sec. 169 are available for expenditure for any program or activity authorized under sec. 169 of WIOA and will remain available until expended or as specified in the award document.


(g) *Other programs under title I of WIOA, including secs. 170 and 171, and all other grants, contracts and cooperative agreements.* Funds are available for expenditure for a period of performance identified in the grant or contract agreement.


(h) *Wagner-Peyser Act.* Funds allotted to States for grants under secs. 3 and 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act for any program year are available for expenditure by the State receiving the funds only during that program year and the 2 succeeding program years. The program year begins on July 1 of the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made.




