# § 184.1063   Enzyme-modified lecithin.

(a) Enzyme-modified lecithin is prepared by treating lecithin with either phospholipase A_2_ (EC 3.1.1.4) or pancreatin.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section. Unless otherwise noted, compliance with the specifications listed below is determined according to the methods set forth for lecithin in the Food Chemicals Codex, 4th ed. (1996), pp. 220-221, which are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington DC 20418, or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Acetone-insoluble matter (phosphatides), not less than 50.0 percent.


(2) Acid value, not more than 40.


(3) Lead, not more than 1.0 part per million, as determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy.


(4) Heavy metals (as Pb), not more than 20 parts per million.


(5) Hexane-insoluble matter, not more than 0.3 percent.


(6) Peroxide value, not more than 20.


(7) Water, not more than 4.0 percent.


(8) Lysolecithin, 50 to 80 mole percent of total phosphatides as determined by “Determination of Lysolecithin Content of Enzyme-Modified Lecithin: Method I,” dated 1985, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an emulsifier as defined in § 170.3(o)(8) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.



---

[N] [61 FR 45889, Aug. 30, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 14666, Mar. 7, 2013; 81 FR 5595, Feb. 3, 2016; 88 FR 17724, Mar. 24, 2023]




