# § 1.303   Basis for civil penalties and assessments.

(a) *Claims.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know—


(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; 


(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; 


(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that—


(A) Omits a material fact; 


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and 


(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or 


(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed,shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than the amount specified at § 3.91(b)(11)(i) of this title for each such claim. 


(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, food coupons, or money constitutes a separate claim. 


(3) A claim shall be considered made to the USDA, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the USDA, recipient, or party. 


(4) Each claim for property, services, food coupons, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, food coupons, or money is actually delivered or paid. 


(5) If the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim. 


(b) *Statements.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a written statement that—


(i) The person knows or has reason to know—


(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or 


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement had a duty to include in such statement; and 


(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than the amount specified at § 3.91(b)(11)(ii) of this title for each such statement. 


(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement. 


(3) A statement shall be considered made to the USDA when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the USDA. 


(c) *Benefits.* (1) In the case of any claim or statement made by any individual relating to any of the benefits listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section received by such individual, such individual may be held liable for penalties and assessments under this section only if such claim or statement is made by such individual in making application for such benefits with respect to such individual's eligibility to receive such benefits. 


(2) For purposes of this paragraph, the term *benefits* means—


(i) Benefits under the food stamp program established under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 which are intended as food assistance for the personal use of the individual who receives the benefits or for a member of the individual's family or household (as defined in section 3(h) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977); 


(ii) Benefits under the National School Lunch Act; 


(iii) Benefits under any housing assistance program for lower income families or elderly or handicapped persons which is administered by the Secretary or USDA; 


(iv) Benefits under the special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children established under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 which are intended for the personal use of the individual who receives the benefits or for a member of the individual's family or household. 


(d) *Intent.* No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section. 


(e) *More than one person liable.* In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section. 


(f) *Joint and several liability.* In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons. The aggregate amount of the assessments collected with respect to such claim shall not exceed twice the portion of such claim determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 9582, Mar. 7, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 3909, Feb. 3, 1992; 75 FR 17556, Apr. 7, 2010]




