# § 4284.1103   Definitions.

The following definitions are applicable to the terms used in this subpart.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS) within the Rural Development mission area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).


*Agency* means RBCS or its successor agency assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture to administer the RISE grant program. References to the National Office, Finance Office, State Office, or other Agency offices or officials should be read as prefaced by “Agency” or “Rural Development” as applicable.


*Applicant* means the lead applicant acting on behalf of a rural jobs accelerator partnership as stated in 4282.1112, that is seeking a RISE grant. The lead applicant will enter into a financial assistance agreement with the Agency, receive the RISE grant funding and take ownership of any assets purchased with grant funds.


*Broadband service.* Defined within the meaning of Title VI of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*), broadband service means any technology identified by the Administrator as having the capacity to provide transmission facilities and capacity that enable the subscriber to receive a minimum level of broadband service. The minimum level of broadband service for the purpose of reviewing the application will be defined by the minimum transmission capacity that was required by Title VI of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*) at the time the application was received by the Agency.


*Complete application* means an application that contains all parts necessary for the Agency to determine applicant and project eligibility, the financial feasibility and technical merit of the project, and contains sufficient information to determine a priority score for the application.


*Departmental regulations* mean the regulations of the Agency's Office of Chief Financial Officer (or successor office) as codified in 2 CFR chapter IV.


*District organization* means an organization as defined in Section 300.3 of Title 13, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).


*Eligible project costs* means the portion of total project costs approved by the Agency for projects that are eligible to be paid with RISE funds.


*Federal fiscal year (FY)* means the 12-month period beginning October 1 of any given year and ending on September 30 of the following year; it is designated by the calendar year in which it ends.


*Financial assistance agreement* means Form RD 4280-2, “Rural Business-Cooperative Service Financial Assistance Agreement, or successor form and is an agreement between the Agency and the grantee setting forth the provisions under which the grant will be administered.


*High-wage job* means a job that provides a wage that is greater than the median wage for the applicable region, as determined by the Department of Labor.


*Indian tribe* means the term as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(e).


*Industry cluster* means a broadly defined network of interconnected firms and supporting institutions in related industries that accelerate innovation, business formation, and job creation by taking advantage of assets and strengths of a region in the business environment.


*Innovation center* means a cross-functional place for the planning and creation of new ideas and opportunities for individual and group collaboration that leads to supporting deployment of innovative processes, technologies, services and products for economic development. Innovation centers may be utilized for a wide array of purposes including short-term housing for business owners or workers; co-working space, which may include space for remote work; space for business utilization with a focus on entrepreneurs and small and disadvantaged businesses but may include collaboration with companies of all sizes; job training programs; and efforts to utilize the innovation center as part of the development of a community, among other uses deemed appropriate by the Agency.


*Institution of higher education* means the term as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1002(a).


*Instrumentality* means an organization recognized, established, and controlled by a State, Tribal, or local government for a public purpose or to carry out special purposes.


*Jobs accelerator* means a center or program located in or serving a rural low-income community that may provide co-working space, in-demand skills training, entrepreneurship and business support, and other initiatives as described in Part 4284.1113(b).


*Lead applicant* means an entity as defined in Part 4284.1112(b) and is responsible for the rural jobs accelerator partnership plus administration of the grant proceeds and activities.


*Letter of conditions* means a document prepared by the Agency establishing conditions that must be agreed to by the applicant before any obligation of grant funds can occur.


*Low income community* means a community as defined in section 45D(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and any amendments thereto.


*Matching funds* means non-federal funds provided to meet the total eligible project costs that are not covered by the RISE grant proceeds.


*Person* means an individual or an entity organized under the laws of a state or a Tribe.


*Region* means an area identified by the applicant that meets the criteria of § 4284.1112(d) with a population of 50,000 or fewer inhabitants, or for a region with a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, is comprised of rural areas and urbanized areas, if any, are the subject of a positive determination by the Under Secretary for Rural Development with respect to a rural-in-character petition, including such a petition submitted concurrently with the application of the partnership for a grant under this section.


*Rural and rural area* means any area of a state not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants according to the latest decennial census of the United States and not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants. A rural and rural area shall be determined as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13).


*Rural in character* means:


(1) A determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development in compliance with 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(D). The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in this definition. Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Administrator will review its merits and consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The petition will be forwarded to the Under Secretary who will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website. The Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.


(2) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in a local newspaper and the request will be posted on the Agency's website. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.


*Rural jobs accelerator partnership* means a partnership formed on or after December 20, 2018, which meets eligibility criteria found in § 4284.1112.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture and, to the extent of delegated authorities, the Under Secretary for Rural Development.


*Small and disadvantaged business* means a small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals as defined in Section 8(d)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)).


*Small business* means:


(1) An entity that meets Small Business Administration (SBA) size standards in accordance with 13 CFR part 121 and criteria of 13 CFR 121.301 as applicable to financial assistance programs, including paragraph (i) or (ii) of this definition. The size of the concern alone and the size of the concern combined with other entity(ies) it controls or entity(ies) it is controlled by, must not exceed the size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which the concern alone or the concern and its controlling entity(ies), whichever is higher, is primarily engaged.


(2) To be considered a small business, either of the following conditions must be met:


(i) The concern's tangible net worth is not in excess of $15 million and average net income (excluding carry-over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years is not in excess of $5.0 million; or


(ii) The size of the concern does not exceed the SBA size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which it is primarily engaged, as measured by number of employees or annual receipts. Industry size standard designations to be utilized are listed in the SBA's table of size standards found in 13 CFR 121.201. Number of employees and annuals receipts are calculated as follows:


(A) Number of employees is calculated as the average number of all individuals employed by a concern on a full-time, part-time, or other basis, based upon numbers of employees for each of the pay periods for the preceding completed 12 calendar months. If a concern has not been in business for 12 months, the average number of employees is used for each of the pay periods during which it has been in business.


(B) Annual receipts are calculated as average total income plus cost of goods sold for the five most recent years. If a concern has been in operation for less than 60 months, average annual receipts for as long as the concern has been in operation are used.


*State* means any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.


*Total project costs* mean the sum of all costs associated with a completed project.






