# § 96.44   Community services.

(a) This section applies to direct funding of Indian tribes and tribal organizations under the community services block grant.


(b) The terms *Indian tribe* and *tribal organization* as used in the Reconciliation Act have the same meaning given such terms in section 4(b) and 4(c) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b). The terms also include organized groups of Indians that the State in which they reside has determined are Indian tribes. An organized group of Indians is eligible for direct funding based on State recognition if the State has expressly determined that the group is an Indian tribe. In addition, the statement of the State's chief executive officer verifying that a tribe is recognized by that State will also be sufficient to verify State recognition for the purpose of direct funding.


(c) For purposes of section 674(c)(2) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9903(c)(2)) an *eligible Indian* means a member of an Indian tribe whose income is at or below the poverty line defined in section 673(2) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)). An *eligible individual* under section 674(c)(2) of the Reconciliation Act (42 U.S.C. 9903(c)(2)) means a resident of the State whose income is at or below the poverty line.


(d) An Indian tribe or tribal organization will meet the requirements of section 675(c)(1) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(1)) if it certifies that it agrees to use the funds to provide at least one of the services or activities listed in that section.


(e) An Indian tribe or tribal organization is not required to comply with section 675(b) (42 U.S.C. 9904(b)) or to provide the certifications required by the following other provisions of the Reconciliation Act.


(1) Section 675(c)(2)(A) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(2)(A));


(2) Section 675(c)(3) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(3)); and


(3) Section 675(c)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(4)).


(4) Section 675(c)(11) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(11)). 


(f) In each fiscal year, Indian tribes and tribal organizations may expend for administrative expenses—comparable to the administrative expenses incurred by State at the State level—an amount not to exceed the greater of the amounts determined by: 


(1) Multiplying their allotment under section 674 of the Reconciliation Act (42 U.S.C. 9903) by five percent; or 


(2) Multiplying the allotment by the percentage represented by the ratio of $55,000 to the smallest State allotment (excluding territorial allotments) for that fiscal year.



---

[N] [47 FR 29486, July 6, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 37967, Oct. 13, 1987] 




