# Sec. 8   Disbursement documents.

(a) *Preparation of invoices by contractors and/or vendors.* (1) Invoices from contractors or vendors shall be supported by evidence of delivery of supplies (delivery receipts), performance of services, or use in facilities furnished the vessels, and shall include the following:


(i) Name of vessel.


(ii) Name of port at which the services, supplies, or facilities were furnished.


(iii) Date of delivery or service.


(iv) Necessary details as to the nature of services, supplies, or facilities furnished including quantity, rate, price and total amount.


(2)(i) In addition to the foregoing, contractors or vendors shall certify each invoice or voucher (original only) in the following manner:


(ii) The agent shall advise its domestic and foreign branch houses, sub-agents, or other representatives to the effect that the foregoing information and certifications must be shown on all invoices or vouchers when received from contractors or vendors.


(iii) In instances where the foregoing certification is unobtainable for foreign purchases only, it may be waived: *Provided,* That, in lieu of such certification the agent certifies the invoice as follows:


(3) In instances where it is not possible or practicable to obtain invoices bearing evidence of payment covering disbursements at foreign ports, that requirement will be waived, provided the agent certifies as follows:


(4) Invoices rendered to the agent by its branch houses or sub-agents shall be only those of the contractors or vendors who actually rendered the services or furnished the supplies or facilities.


(5) If the laws of any country require the foreign sub-agent or branch house to retain the original invoice with stamps affixed, or if such laws require the original receipt as prima facie evidence of payment, the corresponding duplicate copy of the invoice, in proper form, must be forwarded to the agent with notation to that effect made thereon by the foreign sub-agent or branch house.


(b) *Certification of master, ship's officers, branch houses, sub-agents, or duly authorized representatives.* (1) Evidence of delivery of supplies, performance of services, or use of facilities, as normally provided by delivery receipts, or an equivalent form, comprises an essential part of proper documentation for disbursing purposes.


(i) Where supplies are delivered or services or facilities are furnished directly to a vessel, evidence of delivery or performance normally should be signed by a ship's officer.


(ii) Where such evidence is not signed by a ship's officer, any duly authorized representative of the agent may sign as “Duly Authorized Representative,” provided the agent shall be responsible for the designation of proper and qualified representatives and provided the agent shall furnish, when so required by the owner, adequate evidence that the signing representative was duly authorized by him. In instances in which the agent may not be able to identify in advance the representative who may sign, the agent shall have the responsibility for determining that the person signing was qualified to execute evidence of delivery of supplies, performance of services, or use of facilities involved.


(2) For charges for watching cargo, stevedoring, wharfage, receiving and delivering cargo, clerking and checking, or other services or facilities not rendered directly to the vessel, for which normally delivery receipts or any equivalent form are not furnished, the following certification on the face of the original invoice by a duly authorized representative of the agent is required.


(3) Ships' payrolls shall be certified by the master (or his authorized representative) as follows:


(4) In instances where vessels are under foreign articles the payroll shall bear proper evidence of having been paid off before a United States Shipping Commissioner or an American Consul.


(5) The slop chest account shall be certified by the master as follows:


(6) A similar certification shall be made by the Chief Steward (or his authorized representative) covering bar transactions (if any).


(c) *Certification by branch house or sub-agent where agent does not handle transactions directly.* The certification of the branch house or sub-agent must be shown on the original invoice (if rendered singly) or on the summary disbursement statement (if rendered in groups) in the following manner:


(1) *On single invoices.*

(2) *On the summary statement.*

