# § 292.14   Introduction.

(a) *Purpose.* In accordance with the provisions of the Act establishing the Sawtooth National Recreation Area (86 Stat. 612), the regulations of this subpart establish standards for the use, subdivision and development of privately owned property within the boundaries of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area. The standards are in furtherance of the preservation and protection of the natural, scenic, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values and to provide for the enhancement of the recreational values of the Recreation Area. Unless, in the judgment of the Secretary, such property is being used, or is in imminent danger of being used, in a manner incompatible with such standards, the property or any interest therein may not be acquired by condemnation. However, private land or an interest therein, determined to be necessary for access to and utilization of public property, and for recreation and other facilities, may be condemned without regard to this restriction, subject however, to the limitation in § 292.15(j). 


(b) *Amendment of regulations.* Amendments to these regulations shall be made in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act (60 Stat. 238, 5 U.S.C. 553), including the publishing of the amendments as a notice of proposed rulemaking with final adoption after interested persons have been given an opportunity to participate in the rulemaking through submission of comments. 


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *Cluster-type development.* Planned unit development which allows flexibility in neighborhood and subdivision lot design by dedicating or reserving the land so saved to open space. 


(2) *Community development plan.* A narrative plan with maps which sets forth specific standards for desirable development of a community. 


(3) *Designated community.* A populated area divided into lots, blocks and streets as platted and recorded in the official records of the county, containing residences and commercial establishments providing goods and services and retaining the atmosphere of a western frontier ranch-type town and so classified in § 292.15(a). 


(4) *Dude ranching.* Development oriented to furnish an outdoor recreational or educational experience related to ranching. Facility development is compatible with the pastoral environment, rustic in nature and harmoniously colored. 


(5) *Mineral operations.* All functions, work and activities in connection with exploration, development, mining or processing of mineral resources except prospecting which will not cause significant surface disturbance and will not involve removal of more than a reasonable amount of mineral deposit for analysis and study. 


(6) *Private property.* Lands or interests in lands not owned by Federal, State, or local governments but not including unpatented mining claims. 


(7) *Ranch-type character.* A low profile, rambling, well-proportioned, rustic appearing, rough-sawn wood or wood and stone structure or group of structures harmoniously situated within a natural environment. 


(8) *Residential outbuilding.* Nonhabitable building detached from the residence, such as a garage, woodshed or storage building. 


(9) *Secretary.* Secretary of Agriculture. 


(10) *Area Ranger.* The Forest Officer having administrative authority for the Sawtooth National Recreation Area. 



---

[N] [39 FR 11544, Mar. 29, 1974]




