# ยง 45.2   Claims payable and not payable in general.

(a) *In general.* This section sets forth a number of terms and conditions included in the statute (10 U.S.C. 2733a) that describe claims that are payable and not payable. Some of these terms and conditions are discussed in more detail in later sections of this part.


(b) *Claim not otherwise payable.* As required by the statute (section 2733a(b)(5)), a claim under this Part may only be paid if it is not allowed to be settled and paid under any other provision of law. This limitation provides that it cannot be a claim allowed under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), 28 U.S.C. 1346 and Chapter 171. Claims against the United States filed by members of the uniformed services or their representatives for personal injury or death incident to service are not allowed under the FTCA. These claims may be allowed under this Part if they meet the other applicable terms and conditions.


(c) *Time period for filing claims.* (1) The statute (section 2733a(b)(4)) requires that a claim must be received by DoD in writing within two years after the claim accrues. For mailed claims, timeliness of receipt will be determined by the postmark.


(2) There is a special rule for claims filed during calendar year 2020. Such claims must be presented to DoD in writing within three years after the claim accrues. The tolling provisions under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, 50 U.S.C. 3901-4043, are not applicable under this section.


(3) For purposes of applying the time limit for filing a claim, a claim accrues as of the latter of:


(i) The date of the act or omission by a DoD health care provider that is the basis of the malpractice claim; or


(ii) The date on which the claimant knew, or with the exercise of reasonable diligence should have known, of the injury and that malpractice was its possible cause.


(4) State statutes of limitation or repose are inapplicable.


(d) *No claim for attorney's fees or expenses in addition to statutorily allowed amount.*

In calculating the amount that may be paid under this part, consistent with section 2733a(c)(2), there is no additional amount permitted for attorneys' fees or expenses associated with filing a claim or participating in any process relating to the adjudication of the claim. The adjudication of claims under this part is not an adversarial proceeding and there is no prevailing party to be awarded costs.


(e) *Claims adjudication based on national standards.* As required by the statute (section 2733a(f)(2)(B)), claims are adjudicated based on national standards consistent with generally accepted standards used in a majority of States in adjudicating claims under the FTCA. The determination of the applicable law is without regard to the place of occurrence of the alleged medical malpractice giving rise to the claim or the military or executive department or service of the member of the uniformed services. Foreign law has no role in the case of claims arising in foreign countries. The legal standards set forth in other sections of this part apply to determinations with respect to:


(1) Whether an act or omission by a DoD health care provider in the context of performing medical, dental, or related health care functions was negligent or wrongful, considering the specific facts and circumstances;


(2) Whether the personal injury or death of the member was proximately caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission of a DoD health care provider in the context of performing medical, dental, or related health care functions, considering the specific facts and circumstances;


(3) Requirements relating to proof of duty, breach of duty, and causation resulting in compensable injury or loss, subject to such exclusions as may be established by this Part; and


(4) Calculation of damages that may be paid.


(f) *Certain other claims not payable.* The generally accepted legal standards under FTCA that are required to be reflected in the adjudication of claims under this Part include certain exclusions that are part of FTCA law.


(1) The due care and discretionary function exceptions apply to claims under this part.


(i) The due care and discretionary function exceptions, 28 U.S.C. 2680(a), bar any claim based upon an act or omission of a DoD health care provider, exercising due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation or based upon the exercise or performance of any discretionary function or duty on the part of DoD or a DoD health care provider.


(ii) The due care exception applies to any DoD health care provider's act, if carried out with due care, or omission, if omitted with due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation. The due care exception applies whether or not the statute or regulation is valid.


(iii) The discretionary function exception applies to the exercise or performance or the failure to exercise or perform any discretionary function. The discretionary function exception applies whether or not the discretion involved was abused. It applies to any DoD health care provider's act or omission that is a permissible exercise of discretion under the applicable statutes, regulations, or directive and, by its nature, is susceptible to policy analysis. The discretionary function exception applies to DoD policy decisions regarding clinical practice, patient triage, force health protection, medical readiness, health promotion, disease prevention, medical screening, health assessment, resource management, hiring and retaining employees, selection of contractors, military standards, fitness for duty, duty limitations, and health information management, among other matters affecting or involving the provision of health care services.


(2) The quarantine exception applies to claims under this part. This exception, consistent with 28 U.S.C. 2680(f), bars any claim for damages caused by the imposition or establishment of a quarantine by any agency of the U.S. Government.


(3) The combatant activities exception applies to claims under this part. This exception, consistent with 28 U.S.C. 2680(j), bars any claim arising out of the combatant activities of the military or naval forces, or the Coast Guard, in time of war.


(4) The FTCA's exclusions under 28 U.S.C. 2674 of interest prior to judgment and punitive damages apply to any claim under this part.


(5) Claims based on intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, other intentional torts, wrongful death/life, strict liability, products liability, informed consent, negligent credentialing, or joint and severable liability theories are not payable under this part.


(6) Breach of medical confidentiality is not actionable under this part.




