# § 212.8   Permission to cross lands and easements owned by the United States and administered by the Forest Service.

(a) *Permission to construct or use roads across lands and assignable easements owned by the United States and administered by the Forest Service.* If a reciprocal benefit is needed by the United States, permission to construct or use a road across lands and across assignable easements owned by the United States and administered by the Forest Service will be conditioned, except as provided in this section, for any applicant who seeks a permit to construct or use a road across the same, upon the grant to the United States of a reciprocal benefit. Such benefit shall bear: 


(1) A reasonable relation to the management of lands administered by the Forest Service; and 


(2) A value substantially similar to the value of the estate or interest in lands or easements applied for. In those instances where the values of the interests needed by the United States exceed those applied for by the applicant, the additional interests required by the United States will be acquired as provided in § 212.7(b) and (c). Where values needed by the applicant exceed those needed by the United States, the difference in values will be determined under principles set forth below and in §§ 212.5(c) and 212.9. If a reciprocal benefit is not needed by the United States, or the applicant shows good cause why the reciprocal benefit needed by the United States cannot or should not be granted by him, or the applicant declines to grant the reciprocal benefit requested by the United States or if a bona fide emergency exists, permission to construct or use a road across lands owned by the United States may be conditioned for any applicant upon reasonable charges and all other terms and conditions required by the Chief to protect the interests of the United States. Permits for such road construction or use will be non-exclusive and will be conditioned upon compliance with their terms and conditions and with the rules and regulations governing the protection and administration of the lands and those applicable to such roads. 


(b) [Reserved] 


(c) *Replacement of prior grants.* (1) Upon application to the Chief, an easement under the Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1233, 16 U.S.C. 525), shall be replaced by an easement under paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) Upon application to the Chief, an easement shall be granted under paragraph (d) of this section as a replacement for any stipulations for ingress and egress issued under the Act of June 4, 1897 or permit or other document evidencing the applicant's right to use a road: *Provided,* The applicant has met the requirements for obtaining such easement as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(d) *Easements for roads crossing lands or easements administered by the Forest Service.* (1) Applications for permanent or temporary easements for specified periods or otherwise to be granted under the Act of October 13, 1964 (78 Stat. 1039, 16 U.S.C. 533), over lands or easements administered by the Forest Service, or over roads thereon will be approved by the Chief for those applicants who have conveyed or provided appropriate easements over roads, assignable easements and lands owned or controlled by them to the United States of America and its assigns and who have already constructed, or will, as scheduled by agreement, construct their proportionate share of the road or road system of which the segments described in the application are parts. The Chief, after approval of the application and the grant of the easement, will cause the same to be entered in the records of the Forest Service, and delivered to the applicant. 


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Chief may grant to the applicant a permanent or temporary easement for specified periods or otherwise upon such exchange of easements or share-cost arrangement or other reasonable consideration as he may deem appropriate. 


(3) The Chief may grant to a State or local subdivision thereof; easements for roads over lands or easements administered by the Forest Service and over roads thereon, when the roads thereon or roads to be constructed thereon will serve said lands and are, or will become a part of the road system maintained by such State or local subdivision for general public use: *Provided,* That easements shall not be granted under authority of this act (78 Stat. 1089), 16 U.S.C. 533 which may be granted under the Highway Act (72 Stat. 916, 23 U.S.C. 317), as amended. The easements shall contain such provisions, terms, and conditions as the Chief may determine are necessary to retain and protect the interests needed by the United States. 


(4) All instruments affecting permanent interests in land executed pursuant to this paragraph (d) of this section shall be recorded in each county where the lands are located. Copies of all instruments affecting interests in lands reserved from public domain shall be furnished by the Chief to the Secretary of the Interior. 


(5)(i) The Chief may revoke an easement granted under 36 CFR 251.53(j):


(A) With the grantee's consent;


(B) By condemnation; or


(C) After a 5-year period of nonuse by the grantee.


(ii) Before revocation of an easement granted under 36 CFR 251.53(j) for nonuse, a formal adjudicatory proceeding must be conducted pursuant to 7 CFR part 1, subpart H, provided the grantee requests the hearing within 60 days of receipt of the notice of revocation.



---

[N] [30 FR 5476, Apr. 16, 1965, as amended at 39 FR 27650, July 31, 1974; 48 FR 28638, June 23, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 58654, Oct. 30, 1997; 78 FR 33717, June 5, 2013; 88 FR 84707, Dec. 6, 2023] 




