# § 165.834   Safety Zone; Reoccurring Firework Displays near Convention Center on the Mobile River, Mobile, AL.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All navigable waters on the Mobile River 100 yards in all directions from any barges holding fireworks immediately before, during, and immediately after firework displays. The barges will generally be located in the Mobile River in the vicinity of the Arthur R. Outlaw Convention Center.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, *designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Mobile.] (COTP) in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general safety zone regulations in subpart C of this part, you may not enter the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Sector Mobile (COTP) or the COTP's designated representative.


(2) To seek permission to enter, contact the COTP or the COTP's representative by VHF CH-16. Those in the safety zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(d) *Notification.* COTP will use all appropriate means to notify the public in advance of an event of the enforcement of this safety zone either by publishing a Notice of Enforcement in the _Federal Register_ or through the local Notice to Mariners and Broadcast Notice to Mariners. Such notifications will include the date and times of enforcement, along with any pre-determined conditions of entry. Firework barges will also have a sign on their port and starboard side labeled “FIREWORKS—STAY AWAY”. This sign will consist of a ten inch high by one and half inch wide red lettering on a white background.


(e) *Enforcement period.* This rule will be enforced anytime immediately before, during, and immediately after a barge is conducting firework displays on the Mobile River. The Coast Guard anticipates that these safety zones will be enforced for a one hour duration for each display, between 7 p.m. and 1 a.m. The exact dates and times will be announced as described in paragraph (d) of this section.



---

[N] [Doc. No. USCG-2024-0119, 89 FR 54352, July 1, 2024]














