# ยง 51.303   General policy.

It is HUD's general policy to apply standards to prevent incompatible development around civil airports and military airfields. 


(a) HUD policy for actions in Runway Clear Zones and Clear Zones. 


(1) HUD policy is not to provide any assistance, subsidy or insurance for projects and actions covered by this part except as stated in ยง 51.303(a)(2) below. 


(2) If a project proposed for HUD assistance, subsidy or insurance is one which will not be frequently used or occupied by people, HUD policy is to provide assistance, subsidy or insurance only when written assurances are provided to HUD by the airport operator to the effect that there are no plans to purchase the land involved with such facilities as part of a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone acquisition program. 


(3) Special notification requirements for Runway Clear Zones and Clear Zones. In all cases involving HUD assistance, subsidy, or insurance for the purchase or sale of an existing property in a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone, HUD (or the responsible entity or recipient under 24 CFR part 58) shall advise the buyer that the property is in a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone, what the implications of such a location are, and that there is a possibility that the property may, at a later date, be acquired by the airport operator. The buyer must sign a statement acknowledging receipt of this information. 


(b) HUD policy for actions in Accident Potential Zones at Military Airfields. HUD policy is to discourage the provision of any assistance, subsidy or insurance for projects and actions in the Accident Potential Zones. To be approved, projects must be generally consistent with the recommendations in the *Land Use Compatibility Guidelines For Accident Potential Zones* chart contained in DOD Instruction 4165.57, 32 CFR part 256. 



---

[N] [49 FR 880, Jan. 6, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]




