# § 63.6645   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), (f)(4) and (f)(6), 63.9(b) through (e), and (g) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified if you own or operate any of the following;


(1) An existing stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(2) An existing stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions.


(3) A stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(4) A new or reconstructed 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than or equal to 250 HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(5) This requirement does not apply if you own or operate an existing stationary RICE less than 100 HP, an existing stationary emergency RICE, or an existing stationary RICE that is not subject to any numerical emission standards.


(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions before the effective date of this subpart, you must submit an initial notification not later than December 13, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit the notification electronically in portable document format (PDF) consistent with § 63.9(k).


(c) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions on or after August 16, 2004, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit the notification electronically in PDF consistent with § 63.9(k).


(d) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your stationary RICE with a site rating of equal to or less than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions before the effective date of this subpart and you are required to submit an initial notification, you must submit an initial notification not later than July 16, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit the notification electronically in PDF consistent with § 63.9(k).


(e) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of equal to or less than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions on or after March 18, 2008, and you are required to submit an initial notification, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit the notification electronically in PDF consistent with § 63.9(k).








(f) If you are required to submit an Initial Notification but are otherwise not affected by the requirements of this subpart, in accordance with § 63.6590(b), your notification should include the information in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (v), and a statement that your stationary RICE has no additional requirements and explain the basis of the exclusion (for example, that it operates exclusively as an emergency stationary RICE if it has a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions).


(g) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).






(h) If you are required to conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration as specified in Tables 4 and 5 to this subpart, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii).


(1) For each initial compliance demonstration required in Table 5 to this subpart that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.


(2) Before February 26, 2025, for each initial compliance demonstration required in table 5 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in table 3 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2). Beginning on February 26, 2025, for each initial compliance demonstration required in table 5 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in table 3 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including a summary of the performance test results, in PDF to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any Confidential Business Information (CBI) is to be submitted according to paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (h)(2).


(i) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(ii) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.




(i) If you own or operate an existing non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions that is certified to the Tier 1 or Tier 2 emission standards in Table 1 of 40 CFR 89.112 and subject to an enforceable state or local standard requiring engine replacement and you intend to meet management practices rather than emission limits, as specified in § 63.6603(d), you must submit a notification by March 3, 2013, stating that you intend to use the provision in § 63.6603(d) and identifying the state or local regulation that the engine is subject to.



---

[N] [73 FR 3606, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 9677, Mar. 3, 2010; 75 FR 51591, Aug. 20, 2010; 78 FR 6705, Jan. 30, 2013; 85 FR 73912, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 70516, Aug. 30, 2024]




