# § 257.1   Scope and purpose.

(a) Unless otherwise provided, the criteria in §§ 257.1 through 257.4 are adopted for determining which solid waste disposal facilities and practices pose a reasonable probability of adverse effects on health or the environment under sections 1008(a)(3) and 4004(a) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (The Act). Unless otherwise provided, the criteria in §§ 257.5 through 257.30 are adopted for purposes of ensuring that non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal units that receive very small quantity generator (VSQG) waste do not present risks to human health and the environment taking into account the practicable capability of such units in accordance with section 4010(c) of the Act. Unless otherwise provided, the criteria in §§ 257.50 through 257.107 are adopted for determining which CCR landfills and CCR surface impoundments pose a reasonable probability of adverse effects on health or the environment under sections 1008(a)(3) and 4004(a) of the Act.


(1) Facilities failing to satisfy any of the criteria in §§ 257.1 through 257.4 or §§ 257.5 through 257.30 or §§ 257.50 through 257.107 are considered open dumps, which are prohibited under section 4005 of the Act.


(2) Practices failing to satisfy any of the criteria in §§ 257.1 through 257.4 or §§ 257.5 through 257.30 or §§ 257.50 through 257.107 constitute open dumping, which is prohibited under section 4005 of the Act.


(b) These criteria also provide guidelines for the disposal of sewage sludge on the land when the sewage sludge is not used or disposed through a practice regulated in 40 CFR part 503.


(c) These criteria apply to all solid waste disposal facilities and practices with the following exceptions: 


(1) The criteria do not apply to agricultural wastes, including manures and crop residues, returned to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners. 


(2) The criteria do not apply to overburden resulting from mining operations intended for return to the mine site. 


(3) The criteria do not apply to the land application of domestic sewage or treated domestic sewage.


(4) The criteria do not apply to the location and operation of septic tanks. The criteria do, however, apply to the disposal of septic tank pumpings. 


(5) The criteria do not apply to solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows. 


(6) The criteria do not apply to industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. 


(7) The criteria do not apply to source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act, as amended (68 Stat. 923). 


(8) The criteria do not apply to hazardous waste disposal facilities which are subject to regulation under subtitle C of the Act. 


(9) The criteria do not apply to disposal of solid waste by underground well injection subject to the regulations (40 CFR part 146) for the Underground Injection Control Program (UICP) under the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 3007 *et seq.*

(10) The criteria of this part do not apply to municipal solid waste landfill units, which are subject to the revised criteria contained in part 258 of this chapter.


(11) The criteria do not apply to the use or disposal sewage sludge on the land when the sewage sludge is used or disposed in accordance with 40 CFR part 503.




(12) Except as otherwise specifically provided in subpart D of this part, the criteria in subpart A of this part do not apply to CCR units, as that term is defined in subpart D of this part. CCR units are instead subject to subpart D of this part.





---

[N] [44 FR 53460, Sept. 13, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 47052, Sept. 23, 1981; 56 FR 51016, Oct. 9, 1991; 58 FR 9385, Feb. 19, 1993; 61 FR 34269, July 1, 1996; 80 FR 21467, Apr. 17, 2015; 81 FR 85804, Nov. 28, 2016; 89 FR 39099, May 8, 2024]






