# ยง 4.1109   Service.

(a)(1) Any party initiating a proceeding in OHA under the Act shall, on the date of filing, simultaneously serve copies of the initiating documents on the officer in the Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of the Interior, representing OSMRE in the state in which the mining operation at issue is located, and on any other statutory parties specified under ยง 4.1105 of this part.


(2) The jurisdictions, addresses, and telephone numbers of the applicable officers of the Office of the Solicitor to be served under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are identified in the OHA Standing Orders on Contact Information.


(3) Any party or other person who subsequently files any other document with OHA in the proceeding shall simultaneously serve copies of that document on all other parties and persons participating in the proceeding.


(b) Copies of documents by which any proceeding is initiated shall be served on all statutory parties personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by electronic transmission under the terms of the OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission. All subsequent documents shall be served personally or by first class mail or by electronic transmission under the terms of the OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission.


(c) Service of copies of all documents is complete at the time of personal service or, if service is made by mail, upon receipt, or, if service is made by electronic transmission, at the time of transmission.


(d) Whenever an attorney has entered an appearance for a party in a proceeding before an administrative law judge or the Board, service thereafter shall be made upon the attorney.



---

[N] [43 FR 34386, Aug. 3, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 50753, July 31, 1980; 52 FR 39526, Oct. 22, 1987; 56 FR 2142, Jan. 22, 1991; 56 FR 5061, Feb. 7, 1991; 59 FR 1488, Jan. 11, 1994; 59 FR 42774, Aug. 19, 1994; 60 FR 58243, Nov. 27, 1995; 61 FR 40348, Aug. 2, 1996; 67 FR 61510, Oct. 1, 2002; 75 FR 64669, Oct. 20, 2010; 88 FR 5795, Jan. 30, 2023]




