# § 123.92   Electronic information for truck cargo required in advance of arrival.

(a) *General requirement.* Pursuant to section 343(a) of the Trade Act of 2002, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2071 note), for any truck required to report its arrival under § 123.1(b), that will have commercial cargo aboard, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must electronically receive from the party described in paragraph (c) of this section certain information concerning the cargo, as enumerated in paragraph (d) of this section. The CBP must receive such cargo information by means of a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system no later than either 30 minutes or 1 hour prior to the carrier's reaching the first port of arrival in the United States, or such lesser time as authorized, based upon the CBP-approved system employed to present the information. 


(1) *Through cargo in transit to a foreign country.* Cargo arriving by truck in transit through the United States from one foreign country to another (§ 123.31(a)); and cargo arriving by truck for transportation through the United States from one point to another in the same foreign country (§ 123.31(b); § 123.42) are subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) *Cargo entered under bond.* Cargo that is to be unladed from the arriving truck and entered, in bond, for exportation, or for transportation and exportation, in another vehicle or conveyance are also subject to the advance electronic information filing requirement in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(b) *Exceptions from advance reporting requirements*—(1) *Cargo in transit from point to point in the United States.* Domestic cargo transported by truck and arriving at one port from another in the United States after transiting Canada or Mexico (§ 123.21; § 123.41) is exempt from the advance electronic filing requirement for incoming cargo under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) *Certain informal entries.* The following merchandise is exempt from the advance cargo information reporting requirements under paragraph (a) of this section, to the extent that such merchandise qualifies for informal entry pursuant to part 143, subpart C, of this chapter: 


(i) Merchandise which may be informally entered on CBP Form 368 or 368A (cash collection or receipt); 


(ii) Merchandise unconditionally or conditionally free, not exceeding $2,500 in value, eligible for entry on CBP Form 7523; and 


(iii) Products of the United States being returned, for which entry is prescribed on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent. 


(c) *Carrier; and importer or broker*—(1) *Single party presentation.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the incoming truck carrier must present all required information to CBP in the time and manner prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) *Dual party presentation.* The United States importer, or its customs broker, may elect to present to CBP a portion of the required information that it possesses in relation to the cargo. Where the broker, or the importer (see § 113.62(k)(2) of this chapter), elects to submit such data, the carrier is responsible for presenting to CBP the remainder of the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(3) *Party receiving information believed to be accurate.* Where the party electronically presenting the cargo information required in paragraph (d) of this section receives any of this information from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the presenting party acquired such information, and whether and how the presenting party is able to verify this information. Where the presenting party is not reasonably able to verify such information, CBP will permit the party to electronically present the information on the basis of what the party reasonably believes to be true. 


(d) *Cargo information required.* The following commodity and transportation information, as applicable, must be electronically transmitted to and received by CBP for all required incoming cargo arriving in the United States by truck, to the extent that the particular CBP-approved electronic data interchange system employed can accept this information: 


(1) Conveyance number, and (if applicable) equipment number (the number of the conveyance is its Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) or its license plate number and state of issuance; the equipment number, if applicable, refers to the identification number of any trailing equipment or container attached to the power unit); 


(2) Carrier identification (this is the truck carrier identification SCAC code (the unique Standard Carrier Alpha Code) assigned for each carrier by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association; see § 4.7a(c)(2)(iii) of this chapter); 


(3) Trip number and, if applicable, the transportation reference number for each shipment (the transportation reference number is the freight bill number, or Pro Number, if such a number has been generated by the carrier); 


(4) Container number(s) (for any containerized shipment) (if different from the equipment number), and the seal numbers for all seals affixed to the equipment or container(s); 


(5) The foreign location where the truck carrier takes possession of the cargo destined for the United States; 


(6) The scheduled date and time of arrival of the truck at the first port of entry in the United States; 


(7) The numbers and quantities for the cargo laden aboard the truck as contained in the bill(s) of lading (this means the quantity of the lowest external packaging unit; containers and pallets do not constitute acceptable information; for example, a container holding 10 pallets with 200 cartons should be described as 200 cartons); 


(8) The weight of the cargo, or, for a sealed container, the shipper's declared weight of the cargo; 


(9) A precise description of the cargo or the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) numbers to the 6-digit level under which the cargo will be classified (generic descriptions, specifically those such as FAK (“freight of all kinds”), “general cargo,” and “STC” (“said to contain”) are not acceptable); 


(10) Internationally recognized hazardous material code when such cargo is being shipped by truck; 


(11) The shipper's complete name and address, or identification number, from the bill(s) of lading (for each house bill in a consolidated shipment, the identity of the foreign vendor, supplier, manufacturer, or other similar party is acceptable (and the address of the foreign vendor, etc., must be a foreign address); by contrast, the identity of the carrier, freight forwarder, consolidator, or broker, is not acceptable; the identification number will be a unique number to be assigned by CBP upon the implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment); and 


(12) The complete name and address of the consignee, or identification number, from the bill(s) of lading (the consignee is the party to whom the cargo will be delivered in the United States, with the exception of “FROB” (Foreign Cargo Remaining On Board); the identification number will be a unique number assigned by CBP upon implementation of the Automated Commercial Environment). 



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68173, Dec. 5, 2003, as amended at CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71782, Nov. 25, 2008; CBP Dec. 09-39, 74 FR 52677, Oct. 14, 2009; CBP Dec. 12-19, 77 FR 72719, Dec. 6, 2012; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015]




