# § 63.697   Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart must comply with the notification requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator of an affected source must submit notices to the Administrator in accordance with the applicable notification requirements in 40 CFR 63.9 as specified in Table 2 of this subpart. For the purpose of this subpart, an owner or operator subject to the initial notification requirements under 40 CFR 63.9(b)(2) must submit the required notification on or before October 19, 1999, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(i) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to the requirements of § 63.691(c), the owner or operator must submit the information listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in the notification of compliance status required under § 63.9(h) within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.


(ii) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release, and a description of how the owner or operator will determine the information to be recorded under § 63.696(i)(5)(ii) through (iii) (*i.e.,* the duration of the pressure release and the methodology and calculations for determining the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the pressure release).


(2) The owner or operator of an affected source must submit reports to the Administrator in accordance with the applicable reporting requirements in 40 CFR 63.10 as specified in Table 2 of this subpart.


(3) *Electronic reporting.* Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test according to the manner specified by either paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*), the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*http://cdx.epa.gov/epa_home.asp*). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Owners or operators who claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Road, Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (a)(3)(i).


(ii) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in 40 CFR 60.4.


(b) The owner or operator of a control device used to meet the requirements of § 63.693 of this subpart shall submit the following notifications and reports to the Administrator:


(1) A Notification of Performance Tests specified in § 63.7 and § 63.9(g) of this part,


(2) Performance test reports specified in § 63.10(d)(2) of this part, and


(3) *Reports of malfunctions.* If a source fails to meet an applicable standard, report such events in the Periodic Report. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time and duration of each failure. For each failure the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(4) A summary report specified in § 63.10(e)(3) shall be submitted on a semiannual basis (*i.e.,* once every 6-month period). The summary report must include a description of all deviations as defined in §§ 63.683(f) and 63.695(e) that have occurred during the 6-month reporting period. For each deviation caused when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit), the report must include the daily average values of the monitored parameter, the applicable operating parameter limit, and the date and duration of the period that the deviation occurred. For each deviation caused by lack of monitoring data, the report must include the date and duration of period when the monitoring data were not collected and the reason why the data were not collected.


(5) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c), report the results of all monitoring conducted within the reporting period.


(ii) For pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service subject to § 63.691(c)(2)(i), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, if detected more than 5 days after the pressure release.


(iii) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:


(A) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.


(B) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.


(C) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the pressure release and the method used for determining this quantity.


(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.


(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.


(6) *Pressure tank closure device or bypass deviation report.* The owner or operator must submit to the Administrator the information specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section when any of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section are met.


(i) Any pressure tank closure device, as specified in § 63.685(h)(2), has released to the atmosphere.


(ii) Any closed vent system that includes bypass devices that could divert a vent a stream away from the control device and into the atmosphere, as specified in § 63.693(c)(2), has released directly to the atmosphere.


(iii) Any open-ended valve or line in an emergency shutdown system which is designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset, as specified in § 63.167(d) or 40 CFR 61.242-6(d), has released directly to the atmosphere.


(iv) The pressure tank closure device or bypass deviation report must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) The source, nature and cause of the release.


(B) The date, time and duration of the discharge.


(C) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the release and the method used for determining this quantity.


(D) The actions taken to prevent this release.


(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such releases.


(c) Each owner or operator using an internal floating roof or external floating roof to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 63.685(d) of this subpart shall notify the Administrator in advance of each inspection required under § 63.695(b) of this subpart to provide the Administrator with the opportunity to have an observer present during the inspection. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the date and location of the inspection as follows: 


(1) Prior to each inspection to measure external floating roof seal gaps as required under § 63.695(b) of this subpart, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the owner or operator so that it is received by the Administrator at least 30 calendar days before the date the measurements are scheduled to be performed. 


(2) Prior to each visual inspection of an internal floating roof or external floating roof in a tank that has been emptied and degassed, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the owner or operator so that it is received by the Administrator at least 30 calendar days before refilling the tank except when an inspection is not planned as provided for in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 


(3) When a visual inspection is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days before refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible, but no later than 7 calendar days before refilling of the tank. This notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by a written explanation for why the inspection is unplanned. Alternatively, written notification, including the explanation for the unplanned inspection, may be sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 calendar days before refilling the tank. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34158, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 38981, July 20, 1999; 80 FR 14279, Mar. 18, 2015; 85 FR 73893, Nov. 19, 2020]




