# § 534.4   Other fees.

(a) *Service of subpoena.* Fees or compensation for the service of a subpoena by a civilian are not prescribed by the laws of the United States. Fees and mileage allowed by the local law for similar services may be paid. If no specific fee or mileage is fixed by local law, reasonable allowances may be paid. (See Dig. Op. JAG, 1912-40, sec. 379.) 


(b) *Taking of depositions*—(1) *Fees of civil officers.* A civil officer before whom a deposition is taken may be paid the fees allowed by law of the place where the deposition is taken (or a reasonable fee if no specific fee is fixed by local laws), but no mileage or other allowance for travel of the civil officer to the witness is provided for or authorized by law. (See 2 Comp. Gen. 65.) 


(2) *Travel of witnesses.* If the witness and the civil officer before whom the deposition is to be taken do not reside at the same place, the witness should be required to perform the necessary travel, and he is entitled to mileage or other travel allowance therefor as prescribed in § 534.3(e)(2). 


(3) *Oaths in matters of military administration.* Where the service of one of the officers designated in the Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 136, is not available, fees may be paid to civil officers for administering oaths in matters relating to military administration, subject to the conditions indicated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(c) *Interpreters.* An interpreter appointed under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 28 (10 U.S.C. 828), is entitled for his services as such to the allowances prescribed for witnesses (§ 534.3). 


(d) *Furnishing copies of official records or documents.* The fees provided by the local laws may be paid to the proper officials for furnishing such certified copies of public records or documents and expenses in connection with the procurement of photostatic copies, photographs, and negatives as are required by the court. 


(e) *Attendance upon civil courts*—(1) *Cases involving performance of official duties.* A military member on active duty or a civilian in Government employ appearing on behalf of the United States in cases arising out of the performance of their official duties is entitled to transportation and per diem as prescribed in § 534.3(a)(1) and (b)(1). Payment may be made by Department of the Army finance and accounting officers and will be charged to Department of the Army appropriations available for travel expenses of military personnel and civilian employees. 


(2) *Cases involving other than performance of official duties.* A military member on active duty or a civilian in Government employ appearing on behalf of the United States in cases involving other than the performance of their official duties is entitled to transportation or transportation allowances and per diem as may be prescribed by The Attorney General. The subpoena or letter requesting attendance will specify the rates payable and will cite the appropriation chargeable. Payment may be made by a Department of the Army finance and accounting officer and reimbursement obtained from the Department of Justice. 


(3) *Cases in which civilians not in Government employ are called as witnesses.* Payments to civilians out of Government employ will not be made by Department of the Army finance and accounting officers. Such payments will be made by the Department of Justice.




