# ยง 252.2   Revocation of conditional landing permits; removal.

(a) *Revocation and removal while vessel is in the United States.* A crewman whose landing permit is subject to revocation pursuant to section 252(b) of the Act may be taken into custody by any immigration officer without a warrant of arrest and be transferred to the vessel of arrival, if the vessel is in any port in the United States and has not departed foreign since the crewman was issued his or her conditional landing permit. Detention and removal of the crewman shall be at the expense of the transportation line on which the crewman arrived. Removal may be effected on the vessel of arrival or, if the master of the vessel has requested in writing, by alternate means if removal on the vessel of arrival is impractical.


(b) *Revocation and removal after vessel has departed the United States.* A crewman who was granted landing privileges prior to April 1, 1997, and who has not departed foreign on the vessel of arrival, or on another vessel or aircraft if such permission was granted pursuant to ยง 252.1(f), is subject to removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act as an alien deportable pursuant to section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. A crewman who was granted landing privileges on or after April 1, 1997, and who has not departed foreign on the vessel of arrival, or on another vessel or aircraft if such permission was granted pursuant to ยง 252.1(f), shall be removed from the United States without a hearing, except as provided in ยง 208.2(b)(1) of this chapter. In either case, if the alien is removed within 5 years of the date of landing, removal of the crewman shall be at the expense of the owner of the vessel. In the case of a crewman ordered removed more than 5 years after the date of landing, removal shall be at the expense of the appropriation for the enforcement of the Act.



---

[N] [62 FR 10388, Mar. 6, 1997]




