# § 356.5   Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship.

(a) In order to establish that a corporation or other entity is a Citizen of the United States within the meaning of section 2(c) of the 1916 Act, or where applicable, section 2(b) of the 1916 Act, the form of Affidavit is hereby prescribed for execution in behalf of the owner, charterer, Mortgagee, or Mortgage Trustee of a Fishing Industry Vessel. Such Affidavit must include information required of parent corporations and other stockholders whose stock ownership is being relied upon to establish that the requisite ownership in the entity is owned by and vested in Citizens of the United States. A certified copy of the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, or comparable corporate documents, must be submitted along with the executed Affidavit. 


(b) This Affidavit form set forth in paragraph (d) of this section may be modified to conform to the requirements of vessel owners, Mortgagees, or Mortgage Trustees in various forms such as partnerships, limited liability companies, etc. A copy of an Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship modified appropriately, for limited liability companies, partnerships (limited and general), and other entities is available on MARAD's internet home page at *http://www.marad.dot.gov.*

(c) As indicated in § 356.17, in order to renew annually the fishery endorsement on a Fishing Industry Vessel, the owner must submit annually to the Citizenship Approval Officer evidence of U.S. Citizenship within the meaning of section 2(c) of the 1916 Act and 46 App. U.S.C. 12102(c). 


(d) The prescribed form of the Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship is as follows: 


(e) The format for an Affidavit of United States Citizenship, modified appropriately for limited liability companies, partnerships, etc., will be available from the Citizenship Approval Officer and on MARAD's internet web site at *http://www.marad.dot.gov.*

(f) The same criteria should be observed in obtaining information to be furnished for stockholders named (direct ownership of required percentage of shares of stock of each class) in the Affidavit as those observed for the owner of the Fishing Industry Vessel. If, on the other hand, the “fair inference rule” is applied with respect to stock ownership as outlined in § 356.7(c), the extent of U.S. Citizen ownership of stock should be ascertained in the requisite percentage (65 % for state or federally chartered financial institutions and 95 % for Fishing Industry Vessel owners, bareboat charterers, trustees, as well as entities owning 5% or more of the stock of such entities). Any entity that must establish its U.S. citizenship has to submit proof of U.S. citizenship of any five percent stockholder of each class of stock in order that the veracity of the statutory statements made in the Affidavit (paragraph 5) may be relied upon by MARAD. 


(g) It shall be incumbent upon the parties filing affidavits under this part to notify the Citizenship Approval Officer in writing within 30 calendar days of any changes in information last furnished with respect to the officers, directors, and stockholders, including 5 percent or more stockholders of the issued and outstanding stock of each class, together with information concerning their citizenship status. If other than a corporation, comparable information must be filed by other entities owning Fishing Industry Vessel, including any entity whose ownership interest is being relied upon to establish 75% ownership by Citizens of the United States. 


(h) If additional material is determined to be essential to clarify or support the evidence of U.S. citizenship, such material shall be furnished by the owner of the Fishing Industry Vessel upon request by the Citizenship Approval Officer. 



---

[N] [65 FR 44877, July 19, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 5577, Feb. 4, 2003]




