# § 800.48   Dismissal of request for official services.

(a) *Conditions for dismissal*—(1) *General.* An agency or the Service shall dismiss requests for official services when (i) § 800.76 prohibits the requested service; (ii) performing the requested service is not practicable; (iii) the agency or the Service lacks authority under the Act or regulations; or (iv) sufficient information is not available to make an accurate determination.


(2) *Original services.* A request for original services shall be dismissed if a reinspection, review of weighing, appeal inspection, or Board appeal inspection has been performed on the same lot at the same specified service point within 5 business days.


(3) *Reinspection, appeal inspection, or Board appeal inspection services.* A request for a reinspection, appeal inspection, or Board appeal inspection service shall be dismissed when: 


(i) The kind and scope are different from the kind and scope of the last inspection service; 


(ii) The condition of the grain has undergone a material change; 


(iii) The request specifies a representative file sample and a representative file sample is not available, 


(iv) The applicant requests that a new sample be obtained and a new sample cannot be obtained; or 


(v) The service cannot be performed within 5 business days of the date of the last inspection date.


(4) *Review of weighing services.* A request for review of weighing services shall be dismissed when the request (i) is filed before the weighing results have been released, or (ii) is filed more than 90 calendar days after the date of the original service.


(b) *Procedure for dismissal.* When an agency or the Service proposes to dismiss a request for official services, the applicant shall be notified of the proposed action. The applicant will then be afforded reasonable time to take corrective action or to demonstrate there is no basis for the dismissal. If the agency or the Service determines that corrective action has not been adequate, the applicant will be notified again of the decision to dismiss the request for service, and any results of official services shall not be released.



---

[N] [49 FR 30915, Aug. 2, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 45392, Oct. 31, 1985]




