# ยง 671.39   Risk-based redundant protections.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Each RTA must identify and provide redundant protections for each category of work roadway workers perform on the roadway or track.


(2) Each RTA must establish redundant protections to ensure on-track safety for multiple roadway work groups within a common work area.


(b) *Safety risk assessment to determine redundant protections.* Each RTA must assess the risk associated with transit workers accessing the roadway using the methods and processes established under ยง 673.25(c) of this chapter. The RTA must use the methods and processes established under ยง 673.25(d) of this chapter to establish redundant protections for each category of work performed by roadway workers on the rail transit system and must include lone workers.


(1) The safety risk assessment must be consistent with the RTA's Agency Safety Plan (ASP) and the SSOA's program standard.


(2) The safety risk assessment may be supplemented by engineering assessments, inputs from the safety assurance process established under ยง 673.27 of this chapter, the results of safety event investigations, and other SRM strategies or approaches.


(3) The RTA must review and update the safety risk assessment at least every two years to include current conditions and lessons learned from safety events, actions taken to address reports of unsafe acts and conditions, and near-misses, and results from compliance monitoring regarding the effectiveness of the redundant protections.


(4) The SSOA may also identify and require the RTA to implement alternate redundant protections based on the RTA's unique operating characteristics and capabilities.


(c) *Categories of work requiring redundant protections.* Redundant protections must be identified for roadway workers performing different categories of work on the roadway and within track zones, which may include but are not limited to categories such as:


(1) Roadway workers moving from one track zone location to another;


(2) Roadway workers performing minor tasks;


(3) Roadway workers conducting visual inspections;


(4) Roadway workers using hand tools, machines, or equipment in conducting testing of track system components or non-visual inspections;


(5) Roadway workers using hand tools, machines, or equipment in performing maintenance, construction, or repairs; and/or


(6) Lone workers accessing the roadway or track zone or performing visual inspections or minor tasks.


(d) *Types of redundant protections.* (1) Redundant protections may be procedural or physical.


(i) Procedural protections alert rail transit vehicle operators to the presence of roadway workers and use radio communications, personnel, signage, or other means to direct rail transit vehicle movement.


(ii) Physical protections physically control the movement of rail transit vehicles into or through a work zone.


(2) Redundant protections may include but are not limited to:


(i) Approaches consistent with the FRA rules governing redundant protections;


(ii) Rail transit vehicle approach warning;


(iii) Foul time;


(iv) Exclusive track occupancy, defined as a method of establishing working limits, as part of on-track safety, in which movement authority of rail transit vehicles and other equipment is withheld by the control center or restricted by flag persons and provided by a roadway worker in charge;


(v) Warning signs, flags, or lights;


(vi) Flag persons;


(vii) Lock outs from the rail transit vehicle control systems or lining and locking track switches or otherwise physically preventing entry and movement of rail transit vehicles;


(viii) Secondary warning devices and alert systems;


(ix) Shunt devices and portable trip stops to reduce the likelihood of rail transit vehicles from entering work zone with workers;


(x) Restricting work to times when propulsion power is down with verification that track is out of service, and when barriers are placed that physically prevent rail transit vehicles, including on-track equipment, from entering the work zone;


(xi) Use of walkways in tunnels and on elevated structures to reduce roadway worker time in the track zone; and


(xii) Speed restrictions.


(3) Redundant protections for lone workers must include, at a minimum, foul time or an equivalent protection approved by the SSOA.






