# § 92.101   Discrimination prohibited.

(a) *General.* (1) Except as provided in title I of the ACA, an individual must not, on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability, or any combination thereof, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any health program or activity operated by a covered entity.


(2) Discrimination on the basis of sex includes, but is not limited to, discrimination on the basis of:


(i) Sex characteristics, including intersex traits;


(ii) Pregnancy or related conditions;


(iii) Sexual orientation;


(iv) Gender identity; and


(v) Sex stereotypes.


(b) *Specific prohibitions on discrimination.* (1) In any health program or activity to which this part applies:


(i) A recipient and State Exchange must comply with the specific prohibitions on discrimination in the Department's implementing regulations for title VI, section 504, title IX, and the Age Act, found at 45 CFR parts 80, 84, 86 (subparts C and D), and 91 (subpart B), respectively. Where this paragraph (b) cross-references regulatory provisions that use the term “recipient,” the term “recipient or State Exchange” shall apply in its place. Where this paragraph (b) cross-references regulatory provisions that use the term “student,” “employee,” or “applicant,” these terms shall be replaced with “individual.”


(ii) The Department, including Federally-facilitated Exchanges, must comply with specific prohibitions on discrimination in the Department's implementing regulations for title VI, section 504, title IX, and the Age Act, found at 45 CFR parts 80, 85, 86 (subparts C and D), and 91 (subpart B), respectively. Where this paragraph (b) cross-references regulatory provisions that use the term “a recipient,” the term “the Department or a Federally-facilitated Exchange” shall apply in its place. Where this paragraph (b) cross-references regulatory provisions that use the term “student,” “employee,” or “applicant,” these terms shall be replaced with “individual.”


(2) The enumeration of specific prohibitions on discrimination in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not limit the general applicability of the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section.






