# ยง 151.7   Examination elsewhere than at place of arrival or public stores.

The port director may require or authorize examination at a place other than the place of arrival or the public stores, such as at the importer's premises or at a centralized examination station under ยง 151.15 of this part. If examination at a place other than at the place of arrival or the public stores is authorized it will be subject to the following conditions:


(a) *Sealing of packages.* If examination is to be made at the importer's premises or other place not under the control of Customs, the port director may require the packages to be corded and sealed by a Customs officer before the packages are removed from the place of arrival. The packages shall be opened only in the presence of the Customs officer authorized to examine their contents. 


(b) *Preparation for Customs examination and closing of packages.* Except when merchandise is required by the port director to be examined at the public stores, the importer shall arrange and bear any expense for preparation of the merchandise for Customs examination and closing of packages.


(c) *Reimbursement of expenses outside port limits.* If the place of examination is not located within the limits of a port of entry or at a Customs station at which Customs is permanently located, whether or not that location is the place of arrival, the importer shall pay any additional expenses, including actual expenses of travel and subsistence but not the salary during regular hours of duty of the examining officer. However, no collection will be made if the total amount chargeable against one importer for one day amounts to less than 50 cents. If the total amount chargeable amounts to 50 cents or more but less than $1, a minimum charge of $1 will be made. 


(d) *Bond for removal from Customs custody.* Before permitting the removal of merchandise for examination elsewhere than at the public stores, wharf, or other place under the control of Customs, the port director shall require the importer to execute a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in ยง 113.62 of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17470, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 84-152, 49 FR 29374, July 20, 1984; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41186, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 93-6, 58 FR 5606, Jan. 22, 1993]




