# § 73.2   Definitions.

*Case file records.* All records that members of the BCM/NR have access to, not limited to what the BCM/NR analyst presents to the DARB. These records necessarily include the record of proceedings, exhibits, and findings and decisions of both the BCM/NR and DRB.


*Characterization of a discharge or dismissal.* The characterization of a discharge or dismissal is a determination reflecting a Service member's conduct and performance of duty while in military service during a specific period of military service. Administrative discharges can be characterized as honorable, general (under honorable conditions), other than honorable conditions, or can be described as uncharacterized (as in an entry-level separation). If a discharge is adjudged at a court-martial, the assigned characterization may be a bad-conduct discharge, or dishonorable discharge, or a dismissal. The term characterization of a discharge or dismissal is also referred to as a “character of discharge” or “character of service.”


*Characterization of less than honorable.* A characterization that is less than honorable includes a general under honorable conditions, other than honorable conditions, uncharacterized, bad-conduct discharge, dishonorable discharge, or a dismissal.


*DARB member.* A person authorized to review a DARB request and make a recommendation to the DARB president on whether the petitioner's request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal should be granted, partially granted, or denied.


*Discharge Appeal Review Board (DARB).* An administrative board constituted by the Secretary of Defense and vested with the authority to conduct a final review of a request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1553a.


*Exhausted all remedies available.* Petitioner requested an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal and presented all evidence and arguments in support of their request to their respective Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR, including any materials not previously presented or considered by the board in making such determination when requesting reconsideration by the Military Department BCM/NR.


*Final review.* The process by which a petitioner's request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal that was not granted at the respective Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR after the petitioner exhausted all remedies available to the petitioner is evaluated.


*New information.* Material not previously presented to, or considered by, the appropriate Military Department's BCM/NR.


*Petitioner.* A member or former member of the Armed Forces whose request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal was not granted by the relevant Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR. If the member or former member is deceased or legally incompetent, the term “petitioner” includes the surviving spouse, next-of-kin, or legal representative who is acting on behalf of the member or former member. The term “petitioner” also includes a member or former member of the Armed Forces' counsel.


*Preponderance of the evidence.* A standard of proof, evidence which as a whole shows that the fact sought to be proved is more probable than not.


*Record review.* A review of the Service member's case file records.


*Service member.* A member or former member of the Armed Forces.






