# § 810.2002   Definition of other terms.

(a) *Damaged kernels.* Kernels, pieces of triticale kernels, and other grains that are badly ground-damaged, badly weather-damaged, diseased, frost-damaged, germ-damaged, heat-damaged, insect-bored, mold-damaged, sprout-damaged, or otherwise materially damaged.


(b) *Defects.* Damaged kernels, foreign material, and shrunken and broken kernels. The sum of these three factors may not exceed the limit for the factor defects for each numerical grade.


(c) *Dockage.* All matter other than triticale that can be removed from the original sample by use of an approved device according to procedures prescribed in FGIS instructions. Also, underdeveloped, shriveled, and small pieces of triticale kernels removed in properly separating the material other than triticale and that cannot be recovered by properly rescreening or recleaning.


(d) *Foreign material.* All matter other than triticale.


(e) *Heat-damaged kernels.* Kernels, pieces of triticale kernels, and other grains that are materially discolored and damaged by heat.


(f) *Other grains.* Barley, corn, cultivated buckwheat, einkorn, emmer, flaxseed, guar, hull-less barley, nongrain sorghum, oats, Polish wheat, popcorn, poulard wheat, rice, rye, safflower, sorghum, soybeans, spelt, sunflower seed, sweet corn, wheat, and wild oats.


(g) *Shrunken and broken kernels.* All matter that passes through a 0.064 × 3/8 oblong-hole sieve after sieving according to procedures prescribed in FGIS instructions.


(h) *Sieve—0.064* × 
3/8*oblong-hole sieve.* A metal sieve 0.032 inch thick with oblong perforations 0.064 inch by 0.375 (3/8) inch.



---

[N] [52 FR 24418, June 30, 1987; 52 FR 28534, July 31, 1987]




