# § 890.5275   Microwave diathermy.

(a) *Microwave diathermy for use in applying therapeutic deep heat for selected medical conditions*—(1) *Identification.* A microwave diathermy for use in applying therapeutic deep heat for selected medical conditions is a device that applies to specific areas of the body electromagnetic energy in the microwave frequency bands of 915 megahertz to 2,450 megahertz and that is intended to generate deep heat within body tissues for the treatment of selected medical conditions such as relief of pain, muscle spasms, and joint contractures, but not for the treatment of malignancies.


(2) *Classification.* Class II (performance standards).


(b) *Microwave diathermy for all other uses*—(1) *Identification.* A microwave diathermy for all other uses except for the treatment of malignancies is a device that applies to the body electromagnetic energy in the microwave frequency bands of 915 megahertz to 2,450 megahertz and that is intended for the treatment of medical conditions by means other than the generation of deep heat within body tissues as described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Classification.* Class III (premarket approval).


(c) *Date PMA or notice of completion of PDP is required.* A PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP for a device described in paragraph (b) of this section is required to be filed with the Food and Drug Administration on or before July 13, 1999, for any microwave diathermy described in paragraph (b) of this section that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, or that has, on or before July 13, 1999, been found to be substantially equivalent to a microwave diathermy described in paragraph (b) of this section that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. Any other microwave diathermy described in paragraph (b) of this section shall have an approved PMA or declared completed PDP in effect before being placed in commercial distribution.



---

[N] [48 FR 53047, Nov. 23, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 17742, May 11, 1987; 64 FR 18331, Apr. 14, 1999]




