# § 694.12   Under what conditions do State and Partnership GEAR UP grantees make section 404E scholarship awards?

(a)(1) *State Grantees.* All State grantees must establish or maintain a financial assistance program that awards section 404E scholarships to students in accordance with the requirements of § 694.13 or § 694.14, as applicable.


(2) *Partnership Grantees.* Partnerships may, but are not required, to award scholarships to eligible students. If a Partnership awards scholarships to eligible students pursuant to section 404E of the HEA, it must comply with the requirements of § 694.13 or § 694.14, as applicable.


(b)(1) *Section 404E scholarship awards for grantees whose initial GEAR UP grant awards were made prior to August 14, 2008.* A State or Partnership grantee making section 404E scholarship awards using funds from GEAR UP grant awards that were made prior to August 14, 2008, must provide such scholarship awards in accordance with the requirements of § 694.13 unless it elects to provide the scholarships in accordance with the requirements of § 694.14 pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) *Election to use § 694.14 requirements.* A State or Partnership grantee making section 404E scholarship awards using funds from GEAR UP grant awards that were made prior to August 14, 2008, may provide such scholarship awards in accordance with the requirements of § 694.14 (rather than the requirements of § 694.13) provided that the grantee—


(i) Informs the Secretary, in writing, of its election to make the section 404E scholarship awards in accordance with the requirements of § 694.14; and


(ii) Such election does not decrease the amount of the scholarship promised to any individual student under the grant.


(c) *Section 404E scholarship awards for grantees whose initial GEAR UP grant awards were made on or after August 14, 2008.* A State or Partnership grantee making section 404E scholarship awards using funds from GEAR UP grant awards that were made on or after August 14, 2008, must provide such scholarship awards in accordance with the requirements of § 694.14.



---

[N] [75 FR 65799, Oct. 26, 2010]




