# § 801.13   Aggregation of voting securities, assets and non-corporate interests.

(a) *Voting securities.* (1) Subject to the provisions of § 801.15, and paragraph (a)(3) of this section, all voting securities of the issuer which will be held by the acquiring person after the consummation of an acquisition shall be deemed voting securities held as a result of the acquisition. The value of such voting securities shall be the sum of the value of the voting securities to be acquired, determined in accordance with § 801.10(a), and the value of the voting securities held by the acquiring person prior to the acquisition, determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The value of voting securities of an issuer held prior to an acquisition shall be—


(i) If the security is traded on a national securities exchange or is authorized to be quoted in an interdealer quotation system of a national securities association registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the market price calculated in accordance with § 801.10(c)(1); or


(ii) If paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is not applicable, the fair market value determined in accordance with § 801.10(c)(3).


(3) Voting securities held by the acquiring person prior to an acquisition shall not be deemed voting securities held as a result of that subsequent acquisition if:


(i) The acquiring person is, in the subsequent acquisition, acquiring only assets; and


(ii) The acquisition of the previously acquired voting securities was subject to the filing and waiting requirements of the act (and such requirements were observed) or was exempt pursuant to § 802.21.


(b) *Assets.* (1) All assets to be acquired from the acquired person shall be assets held as a result of the acquisition. The value of such assets shall be determined in accordance with § 801.10(b).


(2) If the acquiring person signs a letter of intent or agreement in principle to acquire assets from an acquired person, and within the previous 180 days the acquiring person has


(i) Signed a letter of intent or agreement in principle to acquire assets from the same acquired person, which is still in effect but has not been consummated, or has acquired assets from the same acquired person which it still holds; and


(ii) The previous acquisition (whether consummated or still contemplated) was not subject to the requirements of the Act; then for purposes of the size-of-transaction test of Section 7A(a)(2), both the acquiring and the acquired persons shall treat the assets that were the subject of the earlier letter of intent or agreement in principal as though they are being acquired as part of the present acquisition. The value of any assets which are subject to this paragraph is determined in accordance with § 801.10(b). 


(c)(1) *Non-corporate interests.* In an acquisition of non-corporate interests, any previously acquired non-corporate interests in the same unincorporated entity is aggregated with the newly acquired interests. The value of such an acquisition is determined in accordance with § 801.10(d) of these rules. 


(2) *Other assets or voting securities of the same acquired person.* An acquisition of non-corporate interests which does not confer control of the unincorporated entity is not aggregated with any other assets or voting securities which have been or are currently being acquired from the same acquired person. 



---

[N] [43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7081, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8689, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4991, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11513, Mar. 8, 2005]




