# § 522.2632   Tulathromycin and ketoprofen.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 100 milligrams (mg) tulathromycin and 120 milligrams (mg) ketoprofen.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See §§ 556.345 and 556.745 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer as a single subcutaneous injection 2.5 mg tulathromycin and 3 mg ketoprofen per kilogram (1.1 mL/100 lb) of body weight.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) associated with *Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida, Histophilus somni,* and *Mycoplasma bovis,* and control of pyrexia associated with BRD in beef steers, beef heifers, beef calves 2 months of age and older, beef bulls, dairy bulls, and replacement dairy heifers.


(iii) *Limitations.* Not for use in reproducing animals over 1 year of age. Cattle must not be slaughtered for human consumption within 18 days following last treatment with this drug product. Not for use in female dairy cattle 1 year of age or older, including dry dairy cows; use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows or heifers. Not for use in beef calves less than 2 months of age, dairy calves, and veal calves. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in pre-ruminating calves. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [86 FR 61685, Nov. 8, 2021]




