# § 63.7530   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations, fuel specifications and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limit that applies to you by conducting initial performance tests and fuel analyses and establishing operating limits, as applicable, according to § 63.7520, paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and Tables 5 and 7 to this subpart. The requirement to conduct a fuel analysis is not applicable for units that burn a single type of fuel, as specified by § 63.7510(a)(2). If applicable, you must also install, operate, and maintain all applicable CMS (including CEMS, COMS, and CPMS) according to § 63.7525.






(b) If you demonstrate compliance through performance stack testing, you must establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements in § 63.7520, Table 7 to this subpart, and paragraph (b)(4) of this section, as applicable. You must also conduct fuel analyses according to § 63.7521 and establish maximum fuel pollutant input levels according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, and as specified in § 63.7510(a)(2). (Note that § 63.7510(a)(2) exempts certain fuels from the fuel analysis requirements.) However, if you switch fuel(s) and cannot show that the new fuel(s) does (do) not increase the chlorine, mercury, or TSM input into the unit through the results of fuel analysis, then you must repeat the performance test to demonstrate compliance while burning the new fuel(s).


(1) You must establish the maximum chlorine fuel input (Clinput) during the initial fuel analysis according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must determine the fuel type or fuel mixture that you could burn in your boiler or process heater that has the highest content of chlorine.


(ii) During the fuel analysis for hydrogen chloride, you must determine the fraction of the total heat input for each fuel type burned (Qi) based on the fuel mixture that has the highest content of chlorine, and the average chlorine concentration of each fuel type burned (Ci).


(iii) You must establish a maximum chlorine input level using Equation 7 of this section.


(2) You must establish the maximum mercury fuel input level (Mercuryinput) during the initial fuel analysis using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must determine the fuel type or fuel mixture that you could burn in your boiler or process heater that has the highest content of mercury.


(ii) During the compliance demonstration for mercury, you must determine the fraction of total heat input for each fuel burned (Qi) based on the fuel mixture that has the highest content of mercury, and the average mercury concentration of each fuel type burned (HGi).


(iii) You must establish a maximum mercury input level using Equation 8 of this section.


(3) If you opt to comply with the alternative TSM limit, you must establish the maximum TSM fuel input (TSMinput) for solid or liquid fuels during the initial fuel analysis according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must determine the fuel type or fuel mixture that you could burn in your boiler or process heater that has the highest content of TSM.


(ii) During the fuel analysis for TSM, you must determine the fraction of the total heat input for each fuel type burned (Qi) based on the fuel mixture that has the highest content of TSM, and the average TSM concentration of each fuel type burned (TSMi).


(iii) You must establish a maximum TSM input level using Equation 9 of this section.


(4) You must establish parameter operating limits according to paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section. As indicated in Table 4 to this subpart, you are not required to establish and comply with the operating parameter limits when you are using a CEMS to monitor and demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for that control device parameter.


(i) For a wet acid gas scrubber, you must establish the minimum scrubber effluent pH and liquid flow rate as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limits during the performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit. If you use a wet scrubber and you conduct separate performance tests for HCl and mercury emissions, you must establish one set of minimum scrubber effluent pH, liquid flow rate, and pressure drop operating limits. The minimum scrubber effluent pH operating limit must be established during the HCl performance test. If you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum liquid flow rate operating limit at the higher of the minimum values established during the performance tests.




(ii) For any particulate control device (e.g., ESP, particulate wet scrubber, fabric filter) for which you use a PM CPMS, you must establish your PM CPMS operating limit and determine compliance with it according to paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) Determine your operating limit as the average PM CPMS output value recorded during the most recent performance test run demonstrating compliance with the filterable PM emission limit or at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of the emission limit if your PM performance test demonstrates compliance below 75 percent of the emission limit. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.


(*1*) Your PM CPMS must provide a 4-20 milliamp output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of milliamps.


(*2*) Your PM CPMS operating range must be capable of reading PM concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to at least two times your allowable emission limit. If your PM CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading PM concentration from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit.


(*3*) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (e.g., average all your PM CPMS output values for three corresponding 2-hour Method 5I test runs).


(B) If the average of your three PM performance test runs are below 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of PM CPMS signal to PM concentration using the PM CPMS instrument zero, the average PM CPMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average PM concentration from the Method 5 or performance test with the procedures in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(*1*) Determine your instrument zero output with one of the following procedures:


(*i*) Zero point data for *in-situ* instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.


(*ii*) Zero point data for *extractive* instruments should be obtained by removing the extractive probe from the stack and drawing in clean ambient air.


(*iii*) The zero point may also be established by performing manual reference method measurements when the flue gas is free of PM emissions or contains very low PM concentrations (e.g., when your process is not operating, but the fans are operating or your source is combusting only natural gas) and plotting these with the compliance data to find the zero intercept.


(*iv*) If none of the steps in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(B)(*1*)(*i*) through (*iii*) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.


(*2*) Determine your PM CPMS instrument average in milliamps, and the average of your corresponding three PM compliance test runs, using equation 10.


(*3*) With your instrument zero expressed in milliamps, your three run average PM CPMS milliamp value, and your three run average PM concentration from your three compliance tests, determine a relationship of lb/MMBtu per milliamp with equation 11.


(*4*) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the lb/MMBtu per milliamp value from Equation 11 in equation 12, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.


(C) If the average of your three PM compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your PM emission limit you must determine your 30-day rolling average operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using equation 13 and you must submit all compliance test and PM CPMS data according to the reporting requirements in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(F) of this section.


(D) To determine continuous compliance, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the PM CPMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps) on a 30-day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new operating hour. Use Equation 14 to determine the 30-day rolling average.


(E) Use EPA Method 5 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine PM emissions. For each performance test, conduct three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur. Conduct each test run to collect a minimum sample volume specified in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, as applicable, for determining compliance with a new source limit or an existing source limit. Calculate the average of the results from three runs to determine compliance. You need not determine the PM collected in the impingers (“back half”) of the Method 5 particulate sampling train to demonstrate compliance with the PM standards in this subpart. This shall not preclude the permitting authority from requiring a determination of the “back half” for other purposes.




(F) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (*e.g.* beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.


(iii) For a particulate wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum pressure drop and liquid flow rate as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limits during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit. If you use a wet scrubber and you conduct separate performance tests for PM and TSM emissions, you must establish one set of minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits. If you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits at the higher of the minimum values established during the performance tests.




(iv) For an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) operated with a wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum total secondary electric power input, as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limit during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit. (These operating limits do not apply to ESP that are operated as dry controls without a wet scrubber.)


(v) For a dry scrubber, you must establish the minimum sorbent injection rate for each sorbent, as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limit during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit.


(vi) For activated carbon injection, you must establish the minimum activated carbon injection rate, as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limit during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit.


(vii) The operating limit for boilers or process heaters with fabric filters that demonstrate continuous compliance through bag leak detection systems is that a bag leak detection system be installed according to the requirements in § 63.7525, and that each fabric filter must be operated such that the bag leak detection system alert is not activated more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period.


(viii) For a minimum oxygen level, if you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum oxygen level at the lower of the minimum values established during the performance tests.


(ix) The operating limit for boilers or process heaters that demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl emission limit using a SO_2_ CEMS is to install and operate the SO_2_ according to the requirements in § 63.7525(m) establish a maximum SO_2_ emission rate equal to the highest hourly average SO_2_ measurement during the most recent three-run performance test for HCl.


(c) If you elect to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit through fuel analysis, you must conduct fuel analyses according to § 63.7521 and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) If you burn more than one fuel type, you must determine the fuel mixture you could burn in your boiler or process heater that would result in the maximum emission rates of the pollutants that you elect to demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis.


(2) You must determine the 90th percentile confidence level fuel pollutant concentration of the composite samples analyzed for each fuel type using the one-sided t-statistic test described in Equation 15 of this section.


(3) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for HCl, the HCl emission rate that you calculate for your boiler or process heater using Equation 16 of this section must not exceed the applicable emission limit for HCl.


(4) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for mercury, the mercury emission rate that you calculate for your boiler or process heater using Equation 17 of this section must not exceed the applicable emission limit for mercury.


(5) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for TSM for solid or liquid fuels, the TSM emission rate that you calculate for your boiler or process heater from solid fuels using Equation 18 of this section must not exceed the applicable emission limit for TSM.


(d)[Reserved]


(e) You must include with the Notification of Compliance Status a signed certification that either the energy assessment was completed according to Table 3 to this subpart, and that the assessment is an accurate depiction of your facility at the time of the assessment, or that the maximum number of on-site technical hours specified in the definition of energy assessment applicable to the facility has been expended.


(f) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.7545(e).


(g) If you elect to demonstrate that a gaseous fuel meets the specifications of another gas 1 fuel as defined in § 63.7575, you must conduct an initial fuel specification analyses according to § 63.7521(f) through (i) and according to the frequency listed in § 63.7540(c) and maintain records of the results of the testing as outlined in § 63.7555(g). For samples where the initial mercury specification has not been exceeded, you will include a signed certification with the Notification of Compliance Status that the initial fuel specification test meets the gas specification outlined in the definition of other gas 1 fuels.


(h) If you own or operate a unit subject to emission limits in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must meet the work practice standard according to Table 3 to this subpart. During startup and shutdown, you must only follow the work practice standards according to items 5 and 6 of Table 3 to this subpart.




(i) If you opt to comply with the alternative SO_2_ CEMS operating limit in Tables 4 and 8 to this subpart, you may do so only if your affected boiler or process heater:


(1) Has a system using wet scrubber or dry sorbent injection and SO_2_ CEMS installed on the unit; and


(2) At all times, you operate the wet scrubber or dry sorbent injection for acid gas control on the unit consistent with § 63.7500(a)(3); and


(3) You establish a unit-specific maximum SO_2_ operating limit by collecting the maximum hourly SO_2_ emission rate on the SO_2_ CEMS during the paired 3-run test for HCl. The maximum SO_2_ operating limit is equal to the highest hourly average SO_2_ concentration measured during the HCl performance test.



---

[N] [76 FR 15664, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7174, Jan. 31, 2013; 80 FR 72811, Nov. 20, 2015; 87 FR 60845, Oct. 6, 2022]




