# ยง 1102.33   Rebuttal or Notice Not To Contest.

(a) *When required.* A party to the proceeding may file either a Rebuttal or a Notice Not to Contest the statements contained in the Notice of Intention or any amendment thereto with the Secretary within 15 days after being served with the Notice of Intention or an amendment to such Notice. The Secretary shall place the Rebuttal or the Notice Not To Contest in the public file.


(b) *Requirements of Rebuttal; effect of failure to deny.* A Rebuttal filed under this section shall specifically admit, deny or state that the party does not have sufficient information to admit or deny each statement in the Notice of Intention. A statement of lack of information shall have the effect of a denial. Any statement not denied shall be deemed to be admitted. When a party intends to deny only a part or a qualification of a statement, the party shall admit so much of it as is true and shall deny only the remainder.


(c) *Notice Not To Contest.* A party filing a Notice Not To Contest the statement of fact set forth in the Notice of Intention shall constitute a waiver of the party's opportunity to rebut the facts alleged, and together with the Notice of Intention and any referenced documents, will provide a record basis on which the ASC shall decide the matter. The filing of a Notice Not To Contest shall not constitute a waiver of the right of such party to a judicial review of the ASC's decision, findings and conclusions.


(d) *Effect of failure to file Rebuttal or Notice Not To Contest.* Failure of a party to file a response required by this section within the time provided shall constitute a waiver of the party's opportunity to rebut and to contest the statements in the Notice of Intention and shall constitute authorization for the ASC to find the facts to be as presented in the Notice of Intention and to file with the Secretary a decision containing such findings and appropriate conclusions. The ASC, for good cause shown, will permit the filing of a Rebuttal after the prescribed time.




