# § 101.20   Definitions.

The following definitions pertain to all sections of this part:


*Allocation* means the control of the distribution of materials, services, or facilities for a purpose deemed necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense.


*Allocation order* means an official action to control the distribution of materials, services, or facilities for a purpose deemed necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense.


*Allotment* means an official action that specifies the maximum quantity or use of a material, service, or facility authorized for a specific use to promote the national defense.


*Approved program* means a program determined by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, or the Secretary of Homeland Security to be necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense, under the authority of the Defense Production Act and in accordance with section 202 of E.O. 13603.


*Construction* means the erection, addition, extension, or alteration of any building, structure, or project, using materials or products which are to be an integral and permanent part of the building, structure, or project. Construction does not include maintenance and repair.


*Critical infrastructure* means any systems and assets, whether physical or cyber-based, so vital to the United States that the degradation or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on national security, including, but not limited to, national economic security and national public health or safety.


*Defense Production Act* or *DPA* means the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq.*).


*Delegate agency* means a Federal Government agency authorized by delegation from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to place priority ratings on contracts or orders needed to support approved programs.


*Directive* means an official action that requires a person to take or refrain from taking certain actions in accordance with its provisions.


*Emergency preparedness* means all those activities and measures designed or undertaken to prepare for or minimize the effects of a hazard upon the civilian population, to deal with the immediate emergency conditions which would be created by the hazard, and to effectuate emergency repairs to, or the emergency restoration of, vital utilities and facilities destroyed or damaged by the hazard. “Emergency Preparedness” includes the following:


(1) Measures to be undertaken in preparation for anticipated hazards (including the establishment of appropriate organizations, operational plans, and supporting agreements, the recruitment and training of personnel, the conduct of research, the procurement and stockpiling of necessary materials and supplies, the provision of suitable warning systems, the construction or preparation of shelters, shelter areas, and control centers, and, when appropriate, the nonmilitary evacuation of the civilian population).


(2) Measures to be undertaken during a hazard (including the enforcement of passive defense regulations prescribed by duly established military or civil authorities, the evacuation of personnel to shelter areas, the control of traffic and panic, and the control and use of lighting and civil communications).


(3) Measures to be undertaken following a hazard (including activities for firefighting; rescue; emergency medical, health and sanitation services; monitoring for specific dangers of special weapons; unexploded bomb reconnaissance; essential debris clearance; emergency welfare measures; and immediately essential emergency repair or restoration of damaged vital facilities).


*Facilities* includes all types of buildings, structures, or other improvements to real property (but excluding farms, churches or other places of worship, and private dwelling houses), and services relating to the use of any such building, structure, or other improvement.


*Farm equipment* means equipment, machinery, and repair parts manufactured for use on farms in connection with the production or preparation for market use of food resources.


*Fertilizer* means any product or combination of products that contain one or more of the elements nitrogen, phosphorous, and potassium for use as a plant nutrient.


*Food resource facilities* means plants, machinery, vehicles (including on farm), and other facilities required for the production, processing, distribution, and storage (including cold storage) of food resources, and for the domestic distribution of farm equipment and fertilizer (excluding transportation thereof).


*Food resources* means all commodities and products, (simple, mixed, or compound), or complements to such commodities or products, that are capable of being ingested by other human beings or animals, irrespective of other uses to which such commodities or products may be put, at all stages of processing from the raw commodity to the products thereof in vendible form for human or animal consumption. “Food resources” also means potable water packaged in commercially marketable containers, all starches, sugars, vegetable and animal or marine fats and oils, seed, cotton, hemp, and flax fiber, but does not mean any such material after it loses its identity as an agricultural commodity or agriculture product.


*Hazard* means an emergency or disaster resulting from:


(1) A natural disaster; or


(2) An accidental or man-caused event.


*Health resources* means drugs, biological products, medical devices, materials, facilities, health supplies, services and equipment required to diagnose, mitigate, or prevent the impairment of, improve, treat, cure, or restore the physical or mental health conditions of the population.


*Homeland Security* includes efforts—


(1) To prevent terrorist attacks within the United States;


(2) To reduce the vulnerability of the United States to terrorism;


(3) To minimize damage from a terrorist attack in the United States; and


(4) To recover from a terrorist attack in the United States.


*Industrial resource* means all materials, services, and facilities, including construction materials, the authority for which has not been delegated to other agencies under E.O. 13603. The term “Industrial resource” does not include food resources, food resource facilities, livestock resources, veterinary resources, and the domestic distribution of farm equipment and commercial fertilizer; all forms of energy; health resources; all forms of civil transportation; and water resources.


*Item* means any raw, in process, or manufactured material, article, commodity, supply, equipment, component, accessory, part, assembly, or product of any kind, technical information, process, or service.


*Maintenance and Repair and/or Operating Supplies* (*MRO*) includes the following—


(1) “*Maintenance*” is the upkeep necessary to continue any plant, facility, or equipment in working condition;


(2) “*Repair*” is the restoration of any plant, facility, or equipment to working condition when it has been rendered unsafe or unfit for service by wear and tear, damage, or failure of parts;


(3) “*Operating Supplies*” are any resources carried as operating supplies according to a person's established accounting practice. “Operating Supplies” may include hand tools and expendable tools, jigs, dies, fixtures used on production equipment, lubricants, cleaners, chemicals, and other expendable items; and


(4) *MRO* does not include items produced or obtained for sale to other persons or for installation upon or attachment to the property of another person, or items required for the production of such items; items needed for the replacement of any plant, facility, or equipment; or items for the improvement of any plant, facility, or equipment by replacing items which are still in working condition with items of a new or different kind, quality, or design.


*Materials* includes—


(1) Any raw materials (including minerals, metals, and advanced processed materials), commodities, articles, components (including critical components), products, and items of supply; and


(2) Any technical information or services ancillary to the use of any such materials, commodities, articles, components, products, or items.


*National defense* means programs for military and energy production or construction, military or critical infrastructure assistance to any foreign nation, homeland security, stockpiling, space, and any directly related activity. Such term includes emergency preparedness activities conducted pursuant to title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121, *et seq.*) and critical infrastructure protection and restoration.


*Official action* means an action taken by HHS under the authority of the DPA, E.O. 13603, and this part or another regulation under the FPAS. Such actions include the issuance of Rating Authorizations, Directives, Set Asides, Allotments, Letters of Understanding, and Demands for Information, Inspection Authorizations, and Administrative Subpoenas.


*Person* includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other organized group of persons, or legal successor or representative thereof; or any State or local government or agency thereof; and for purposes of administration of this part, includes the Federal Government and any authorized foreign government or international organization or agency thereof, delegated authority as provided in this part.


*Priority rating* is an identifying code assigned by HHS, a Delegate Agency or authorized person placed on all rated orders for health resources and consisting of the rating symbol and program identification symbol.


*Program Identification Symbols* is an abbreviation used to indicate which approved program is supported by a rated order.


*Rated order* means a prime contract, a subcontract, or a purchase order in support of an approved program issued in accordance with the provisions of this part.


*Resource department* means any agency delegated priorities and allocations authority as specified in § 101.2.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of HHS.


*Services* includes any effort that is needed for or incidental to—


(1) The development, production, processing, distribution, delivery, or use of a health resource.


(2) The construction of facilities.


(3) Other national defense programs and activities.


*Set-aside* means an official action that requires a person to reserve materials, services, or facilities capacity in anticipation of the receipt of rated orders.


*Stafford Act* means title VI (Emergency Preparedness) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5121 *et seq.*).


*Water resources* means all usable water, from all sources, within the jurisdiction of the United States, that can be managed, controlled, and allocated to meet emergency requirements, except “water resources” do not include usable water that qualifies as “food resources”.


*Working day* means any day that the recipient of an order is open for business.






