# § 63.11501   What are the notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, and how may I assert an affirmative defense for violation of emission standards during malfunction?

(a) *General provisions.* You must meet the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, as shown in Table 9 to this subpart. The General Provisions in other parts do not apply except when a requirement in an overlapping standard, which you determined is at least as stringent as subpart VVVVVV and with which you have opted to comply, requires compliance with general provisions in another part.


(b) *Notification of compliance status (NOCS).* Your NOCS required by § 63.9(h) must include the following additional information as applicable:


(1) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official:


(i) “This facility complies with the management practices in § 63.11495.”


(ii) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11496 for HAP emissions from process vents.”


(iii) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11496 and § 63.11497 for surge control vessels, bottoms receivers, and storage tanks.”


(iv) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11498 to treat wastewater streams.”


(v) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11499 for heat exchange systems.”


(2) If you comply with the alternative standard as specified in Table 2 to this subpart or Table 3 to this subpart, include the information specified in § 63.1258(b)(5), as applicable.


(3) If you establish an operating limit for a parameter that will not be monitored continuously in accordance with §§ 63.11496(g)(4) and 63.2450(k)(6), provide the information as specified in §§ 63.11496(g)(4) and 63.2450(k)(6).


(4) A list of all transferred liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b).


(5) If you comply with provisions in an overlapping rule in accordance with § 63.11500, identify the affected CMPU, heat exchange system, and/or wastewater system; provide a list of the specific provisions with which you will comply; and demonstrate that the provisions with which you will comply are at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirements, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, in this subpart VVVVVV.


(c) *Recordkeeping.* You must maintain files of all information required by this subpart for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(1). If you are subject, you must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 63.10(b)(2)(iii) and (vi) through (xiv), and the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) For each CMPU subject to this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) Records of management practice inspections, repairs, and reasons for any delay of repair, as specified in § 63.11495(a)(5).


(ii) Records of small heat exchange system inspections, demonstrations of indications of leaks that do not constitute leaks, repairs, and reasons for any delay in repair as specified in § 63.11495(b).


(iii) If batch process vent emissions are less than 10,000 lb/yr for a CMPU, records of batch process vent emission calculations, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(1), the number of batches operated each month, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(3), and any updated emissions calculations, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(3). Alternatively, keep records of the worst-case processes or organic HAP usage, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(2) and (4), respectively.


(iv) Records of all TRE calculations for continuous process vents as specified in § 63.11496(b)(2).


(v) Records of metal HAP emission calculations as specified in § 63.11496(f)(1) and (2). If total uncontrolled metal HAP process vent emissions from a CMPU subject to this subpart are estimated to be less than 400 lb/yr, also keep records of either the number of batches per month or operating hours, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(2).


(vi) Records identifying wastewater streams and the type of treatment they receive, as specified in Table 6 to this subpart.


(vii) Records of the date, time, and duration of each malfunction of operation of process equipment, control devices, recovery devices, or continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart that causes a failure to meet a standard. The record must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(viii) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11495(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(2) For batch process vents subject to Table 2 to this subpart and continuous process vents subject to Table 3 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If you route emissions to a control device other than a flare, keep records of performance tests, if applicable, as specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii) and (4), keep records of the monitoring system and the monitored parameters, as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), and keep records of the closed-vent system, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1). If you use a recovery device to maintain the TRE above 1.0 for a continuous process vent, keep records of monitoring parameters during the TRE index value determination, as specified in § 63.998(a)(3).


(ii) If you route emissions to a flare, keep records of the flare compliance assessment, as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(i), keep records of the pilot flame monitoring, as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(ii) and (iii), and keep records of the closed-vent system, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1).


(3) For metal HAP process vents subject to Table 4 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For a new source using a control device other than a baghouse and for any existing source, maintain a monitoring plan, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(3)(i), and keep records of monitoring results, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(3).


(ii) For a new source using a baghouse to control metal HAP emissions, keep a site-specific monitoring plan, as specified in §§ 63.11496(f)(4) and 63.11410(g), and keep records of bag leak detection systems, as specified in §§ 63.11496(f)(4) and 63.11410(g)(4).


(4) For each storage tank subject to Table 5 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Keep records of the vessel dimensions, capacity, and liquid stored, as specified in § 63.1065(a).


(ii) Keep records of each inspection of an internal floating roof, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(1).


(iii) Keep records of each seal gap measurement for external floating roofs, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(2), and keep records of inspections of external floating roofs, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(1).


(iv) If you vent emissions to a control device other than a flare, keep records of the operating plan and measured parameter values, as specified in §§ 63.985(c) and 63.998(d)(2).


(v) If you vent emissions to a flare, keep records of all periods of operation during which the flare pilot flame is absent, as specified in §§ 63.987(c) and 63.998(a)(1), and keep records of closed-vent systems, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1).


(vi) For periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, keep records of the day and time at which each maintenance period begins and ends, and keep records of the type of maintenance performed, as specified in § 63.11497(b)(3).


(5) For each wastewater stream subject to Item 2 in Table 6 to this subpart, keep records of the wastewater stream identification and the disposition of the organic phase(s), as specified in Item 2 to Table 6 to this subpart.


(6) For each large heat exchange system subject to Table 8 to this subpart, you must keep records of detected leaks; the date the leak was detected; if demonstrated not to be a leak, the basis for that determination; the date of efforts to repair the leak; and the date the leak is repaired, as specified in Table 8 to this subpart.


(7) You must keep a record of all transferred liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b), and not included in the NOCS.


(8) For continuous process vents subject to Table 3 to this subpart, keep records of the occurrence and duration of each startup and shutdown of operation of process equipment, or of air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(d) *Semiannual Compliance Reports.* You must submit semiannual compliance reports that contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section, as applicable. Reports are required only for semiannual periods during which you experienced any of the events described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) *Deviations.* You must clearly identify any deviation from the requirements of this subpart.


(2) *Delay of repair for a large heat exchange system.* You must include the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) each time you invoke the delay of repair provisions for a heat exchange system with a cooling water flow rate equal to or greater than 8,000 gal/min.


(3) *Delay of leak repair.* You must provide the following information for each delay of leak repair beyond 15 days for any process equipment, storage tank, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, and each delay of leak repair beyond 45 days for any heat exchange system with a cooling water flow rate less than 8,000 gal/min: information on the date the leak was identified, the reason for the delay in repair, and the date the leak was repaired.


(4) *Process change.* You must report each process change that affects a compliance determination and submit a new certification of compliance with the applicable requirements in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(5) *Data for the alternative standard.* If you comply with the alternative standard, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart or Table 3 to this subpart, report the information required in § 63.1258(b)(5).


(6) *Overlapping rule requirements.* Report any changes in the overlapping provisions with which you comply.


(7) *Reactive and resinous materials.* Report any transfer of liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b), and not included in the NOCS.


(8) *Malfunctions.* If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number of instances of malfunctions that caused emissions in excess of a standard. For each malfunction that caused emissions in excess of a standard, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. The report must also include a description of actions you took during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11495(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(e) *Affirmative defense for violation of emission standards during malfunction.* In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in §§ 63.11495 through 63.11499, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at 40 CFR 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not available for claims for injunctive relief.


(1) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, you must timely meet the notification requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:


(i) The violation:


(A) Was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner; and


(B) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design, or better operation and maintenance practices; and


(C) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and


(D) Was not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance; and


(ii) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when a violation occurred. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs; and


(iii) The frequency, amount, and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable; and


(iv) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; and


(v) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violation on ambient air quality, the environment and human health; and


(vi) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; and


(vii) All of the actions in response to the violation were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs; and


(viii) At all times, the affected CMPU was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and


(ix) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the violation resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis must also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of any emissions that were the result of the malfunction.


(2) *Report.* If you seek to assert an affirmative defense, you must submit a written report to the Administrator, with all necessary supporting documentation, that you have met the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. This affirmative defense report must be included in the first periodic compliance report, deviation report, or excess emission report otherwise required after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard (which may be the end of any applicable averaging period). If such compliance report, deviation report, or excess emission report is due less than 45 days after the initial occurrence of the violation, the affirmative defense report may be included in the second compliance report, deviation report, or excess emission report due after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard.



---

[N] [74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75758, Dec. 21, 2012]




