# § 985.105   HUD SEMAP responsibilities.

(a) *Frequency of SEMAP assessments*—(1) *Annual review.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, HUD shall assess each PHA's performance under SEMAP annually and shall assign each PHA a SEMAP score and overall performance rating. 


(2) *Biennial review for small PHAs.* HUD shall assess and score the performance of a PHA with less than 250 assisted units once every other PHA fiscal year, unless the PHA: 


(i) Elects to have its performance assessed on an annual basis; or 


(ii) Is designated as troubled, in accordance with § 985.103. 


(b) *Notification to PHA.* No later than 120 calendar days after the PHA's fiscal year end, HUD shall notify each PHA in writing of its rating on each SEMAP indicator, of its overall SEMAP score and of its overall performance rating (high performer, standard, troubled). The HUD notification letter shall identify and require correction of any SEMAP deficiencies (indicator rating of zero) within 45 calendar days from date of HUD notice.


(c) *On-site confirmatory review.* HUD may conduct an on-site confirmatory review to verify the PHA certification and the HUD rating under any indicator.


(d) *Changing rating from troubled.* HUD must conduct an on-site confirmatory review of an PHA's performance before changing any annual overall performance rating from troubled to standard or high performer.


(e) *Appeals.* HUD must review, consider and provide a final written determination to an PHA on its appeal of its overall performance rating.


(f) *Corrective action plans.* HUD must review the adequacy and monitor implementation of PHA corrective action plans submitted under § 985.106(c) or § 985.107(c) and provide technical assistance to help the PHA improve program management. If an PHA is assigned an overall performance rating of troubled, the PHA's corrective action plan must be approved in writing by HUD.



---

[N] [63 FR 48555, Sept. 10, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003]




