# § 478.102   Sales or deliveries of firearms on and after November 30, 1998.

(a) *Background check.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer (the licensee) shall not sell, deliver, or transfer a firearm to any other person who is not licensed under this part unless the licensee meets the following requirements:


(1) Before the completion of the transfer, the licensee has contacted NICS;


(2) The licensee has verified the identity of the transferee by examining the identification document presented in accordance with the provisions of § 478.124(c); and


(3) NICS has responded to the licensee with one of the following results, or has not responded to the licensee and the required investigatory period has elapsed:


(i) *Notification.* NICS provides the licensee with a “Proceed” notification and a unique identification number, at which time the transfer may proceed.


(ii) *Initial investigatory period.* If NICS does not respond to the licensee as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the licensee must not proceed with the transfer for three business days (days on which State offices are open). If three business days have elapsed from the date the licensee contacted NICS, and NICS has not provided the licensee with a “Denied” notification, the licensee may proceed with the transfer unless the transferee is under 21 years old and paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section applies.


(iii) *Additional investigatory period in the case of a transferee who is under 21 years old (applies through September 30, 2032).* In the case of a transferee under 21 years of age, if NICS notifies the licensee within three business days from the date the licensee contacted NICS that cause exists for further investigation, the licensee may not proceed with the transfer until they receive a follow-up “Proceed” response from NICS or until another seven business days have expired, exclusive of the day on which the query is made (up to ten business days in total), whichever occurs first. If ten business days have elapsed from the date the licensee contacted NICS, and NICS has not notified the licensee that transfer to, or receipt of the firearm by, the transferee is “Denied,” the transfer may proceed.


(b) *Transaction number.* In any transaction for which a licensee receives a transaction number from NICS (which shall include either a NICS transaction number or, in States where the State is recognized as a point of contact for NICS checks, a State transaction number), such number shall be recorded on a firearms transaction record, Form 4473, which shall be retained in the records of the licensee in accordance with the provisions of § 478.129. This applies regardless of whether the transaction is approved or denied by NICS, and regardless of whether the firearm is actually transferred.


(c) *Time limitation on NICS checks.* A NICS check conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may be relied upon by the licensee only for use in a single transaction, and for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days from the date that NICS was initially contacted. If the transaction is not completed within the 30-day period, the licensee shall initiate a new NICS check prior to completion of the transfer.


(d) *Exceptions to NICS check.* The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if—


(1) The transferee has presented to the licensee a valid permit or license that—


(i) Allows the transferee to possess, acquire, or carry a firearm;


(ii) Was issued not more than 5 years earlier by the State in which the transfer is to take place; and


(iii) The law of the State provides that such a permit or license is to be issued only after an authorized government official has verified that the information available to such official does not indicate that possession of a firearm by the transferee would be in violation of Federal, State, or local law: *Provided,* That on and after November 30, 1998, the information available to such official includes the NICS;


(2) The firearm is subject to the provisions of the National Firearms Act and has been approved for transfer under 27 CFR part 479; or


(3) On application of the licensee, in accordance with the provisions of § 478.150, the Director has certified that compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section is impracticable.


(e) The document referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (or a copy thereof) shall be retained or the required information from the document shall be recorded on the firearms transaction record in accordance with the provisions of § 478.131.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-415, 63 FR 58279, Oct. 29, 1998, as amended by ATF-11F, 73 FR 57241, Oct. 2, 2008; ATF 2022R-09, 89 FR 28632, Apr. 19, 2024]




