# ยง 100.603   Debts that are covered.

(a) The procedures covered by this part generally apply to claims for payment or debts which


(1) Result from certain internal management activities of the NLRB; or


(2) Are referred to the NLRB for collection.


(b) The procedures covered by this part do not apply to


(1) A debt arising from, or ancillary to, any action undertaken by or on behalf of the NLRB or its General Counsel in furtherance of efforts to ensure compliance with the National Labor Relations Board Act, 29 U.S.C. 151, *et seq.,* including but not limited to actions involving the collection of monies owed for back pay and/or other monetary remedies provided for in Board orders or ancillary court proceedings. (Regulations concerning the collection of these types of debts are found in 29 CFR part 102, subparts U and V.);


(2) A debt involving criminal actions of fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other person having an interest in the claim;


(3) A debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws;


(4) A debt under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;


(5) A debt between Federal agencies. Federal agencies should attempt to resolve interagency claims by negotiation in accordance with Executive Order 12146 (3 CFR, 1980 Comp., pp. 409-412);


(6) A debt once it becomes subject to salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514; or


(7) A debt involving bankruptcy which is covered by Title 11 of the United States Code.


(c) Debts involving criminal actions of fraud, false claims, misrepresentation, or which violate antitrust laws will be promptly referred to the Department of Justice. Only the Department of Justice has the authority to compromise, suspend, or terminate collection activity on such debts. However, at its discretion, the Department of Justice may return a debt to the NLRB for further handling.




