# § 4041.3   Computation of time; filing and issuance rules.

(a) *Computation of time.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter to compute any time period under this part. A proposed termination date may be any day, including a weekend or Federal holiday. 


(b) *Filing with the PBGC*—(1) *Method and date of filing.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart A of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of filing with the PBGC under this part. The PBGC applies the rules in subpart C of part 4000 of this chapter to determine the date that a submission under this part was filed with the PBGC. 


(2) *Where to file.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file. 


(c) *Issuance to third parties.* The following rules apply to affected parties (other than the PBGC). For purposes of this paragraph (c), a person entitled to notice under the spin-off/termination transaction rules of § 4041.23(c) or § 4041.24(f) is treated as an affected party. 


(1) *Method and date of issuance.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart B of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of issuance under this part. The PBGC applies the rules in subpart C of part 4000 of this chapter to determine the date that an issuance under this part was provided.


(2) *Omission of affected parties.* The failure to issue any notice to an affected party (other than any employee organization) within the specified time period will not cause the notice to be untimely if—


(i) *After-discovered affected parties.* The plan administrator could not reasonably have been expected to know of the affected party, and issues the notice promptly after discovering the affected party; or


(ii) *Unlocated participants.* The plan administrator could not locate the affected party after making reasonable efforts, and issues the notice promptly in the event the affected party is located.


(3) *Deceased participants.* In the case of a deceased participant, the plan administrator need not issue a notice to the participant's estate if the estate is not entitled to a distribution.


(4) *Form of notices to affected parties.* All notices to affected parties must be readable and written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant. The plan administrator may provide additional information with a notice only if the information is not misleading.


(5) *Foreign languages.* The plan administrator of a plan that (as of the proposed termination date) covers the numbers or percentages in § 2520.104b-10(e) of this title of participants literate only in the same non-English language must, for any notice to affected parties—


(i) Include a prominent legend in that common non-English language advising them how to obtain assistance in understanding the notice; or


(ii) Provide the notice in that common non-English language to those affected parties literate only in that language.



---

[N] [62 FR 60428, Nov. 7, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 61353, Oct. 28, 2003]




