# § 868.252   Definition of other terms.

For the purposes of these standards, the following terms shall have the meanings stated below:


(a) *Broken kernels.* Kernels of rice which are less than three-fourths of whole kernels.


(b) *Brown rice.* Whole or broken kernels of rice from which the hulls have been removed.


(c) *Chalky kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are one-half or more chalky.


(d) *Classes.* There are four classes of brown rice for processing.


(1) “Long-grain brown rice for processing” shall consist of brown rice for processing which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of brown rice and not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of medium- or short-grain rice.


(2) “Medium-grain brown rice for processing” shall consist of brown rice for processing which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of brown rice and not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of long-grain rice or whole kernels of short-grain rice.


(3) “Short-grain brown rice for processing” shall consist of brown rice for processing which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of brown rice and not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of long-grain rice or whole kernels of medium-grain rice.


(4) “Mixed brown rice for processing” shall be brown rice for processing which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of brown rice and more than 10.0 percent of “other types” as defined in paragraph (i) of this section.


(e) *Damaged kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are distinctly discolored or damaged by water, insects, heat, or any other means (including parboiled kernels in nonparboiled rice and smutty kernels). “Heat-damaged kernels” (see paragraph (f) of this section) shall not function as damaged kernels.


(f) *Heat-damaged kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are materially discolored and damaged as a result of heating and parboiled kernels in nonparboiled rice which are as dark as, or darker in color than, the interpretive line for heat-damaged kernels.


(g) *Milling yield.* An estimate of the quantity of whole kernels and total milled rice (whole and broken kernels combined) that is produced in the milling of brown rice for processing to a well-milled degree.


(h) *Objectionable seeds.* Whole or broken seeds other than rice, except seeds of *Echinochloa crusgalli* (commonly known as barnyard grass, watergrass, and Japanese millet).


(i) *Other types.* (1) Whole kernels of: 


(i) Long grain rice in medium or short grain rice and medium or short grain rice in long grain rice, 


(ii) Medium grain rice in long or short grain rice, 


(iii) Short grain rice in long or medium grain rice, 


(2) Broken kernels of long grain rice in medium or short grain rice and broken kernels of medium or short grain rice in long grain rice.


(j) *Paddy kernels.* Whole or broken unhulled kernels and whole or broken kernels of rise having a portion or portions of the hull remaining which cover one-half (
1/2) or more of the whole or broken kernel.


(k) *Red rice.* Whole or broken kernels of rice on which the bran is distinctly red in color.


(l) *Related material.* All by-products of a paddy kernel, such as the outer glumes, lemma, palea, awn, embryo, and bran layers.


(m) *Seeds.* Whole or broken seeds of any plant other than rice.


(n) *Smutty kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are distinctly infected by smut.


(o) *Types of rice.* There are three types of brown rice for processing:


(p) *Ungelantinized kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of parboiled rice with distinct white or chalky areas due to incomplete gelatization of the starch.


(q) *Unrelated material.* All matter other than rice, related material, and seeds.


(r) *Well-milled kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice from which the hulls and practically all of the embryos and the bran layers have been removed.


(s) *Whole kernels.* Unbroken kernels of rice and broken kernels of rice which are at least three-fourths of an unbroken kernel.


(t) *6 plate.* A laminated metal plate 0.142-inch thick, with a top lamina 0.051-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0938 (
6/64) inch in diameter, and a bottom lamina 0.091-inch thick, without perforations.


(u) *6
* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.1016 (6
1/2/64) inch in diameter.



---

[N] [13 FR 9479, Dec. 31, 1948, as amended at 44 FR 73008, Dec. 17, 1979; 47 FR 34516, Aug. 10, 1982; 54 FR 21403, 21406, May 18, 1989; 54 FR 51344, Dec. 14, 1989. Redesignated at 60 FR 16364, Mar. 30, 1995]




