# ยง 1800.4   Filing complaints of Hatch Act violations and requesting advisory opinions.

(a) Procedures for filing complaints alleging Hatch Act violations.


(1) Complainants are encouraged to use the OSC complaint form (Form 14) to file Hatch Act complaints. The OSC complaint form is available:


(i) Online at: *https://osc.gov* (to print out and complete on paper, or to complete online); or


(ii) *By writing to OSC at:* U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.


(2) Complaints alleging a violation of the Hatch Act not submitted on Form 14 may also be submitted in any written form, and should include:


(i) The complainant's name, mailing address, and telephone number (unless the matter is submitted anonymously);


(ii) The department or agency, location, and organizational unit complained of; and


(iii) A concise description of the actions complained about, names and positions of employees who took the actions, if known to the complainant, and dates of the actions, preferably in chronological order, together with any documentary evidence that the complainant can provide.


(3) Written Hatch Act complaints including the information in 1800.4(a)(2) above may be filed with OSC:


(i) *By email to: hatchact@osc.gov;* or


(ii) *By mail to:* U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.


(b) Procedures for requesting Hatch Act advisory opinions. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1212(f), OSC is authorized to issue advisory opinions only about political activity of Federal officers and employees, and political activity of certain State or local officers and employees. An individual can seek an advisory opinion from OSC:


(1) *By email to: hatchact@osc.gov;*

(2) *By mail to:* U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Hatch Act Unit, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505; or


(3) *By phone at:* (800) 854-2824 (toll-free), or (202) 804-7002 (in the Washington, DC area).






