# § 155.706   Functions of a SHOP for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.

(a) *Exchange functions that apply to SHOP.* The SHOP must carry out all the required functions of an Exchange described in this subpart and in subparts C, E, K, and M of this part, except:


(1) Requirements related to individual eligibility determinations in subpart D of this part;


(2) Requirements related to enrollment of qualified individuals described in subpart E of this part;


(3) The requirement to issue certificates of exemption in accordance with § 155.200(b); and


(4) Requirements related to the payment of premiums by individuals, Indian tribes, tribal organizations and urban Indian organizations under § 155.240.


(b) *Unique functions of a SHOP.* The SHOP must also provide the following unique functions:


(1) *Enrollment and eligibility functions.* The SHOP must adhere to the requirements outlined in subpart H.


(2) *Employer choice requirements.* The SHOP must allow a qualified employer to select a level of coverage as described in section 1302(d)(1) of the Affordable Care Act, in which all QHPs within that level are made available to the qualified employees of the employer.


(3) *SHOP options with respect to employer choice requirements.* (i) A SHOP:


(A) Must allow an employer to make available to qualified employees all QHPs at the level of coverage selected by the employer as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and


(B) May allow an employer to make one or more QHPs available to qualified employees by a method other than the method described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(ii) A Federally-facilitated SHOP will provide a qualified employer a choice of two methods to make QHPs available to qualified employees:


(A) The employer may choose a level of coverage as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or


(B) The employer may choose a single QHP.


(iii) A SHOP may, and a Federally-facilitated SHOP will provide a qualified employer a choice of two methods to make stand-alone dental plans available to qualified employees:


(A) The employer may choose to make available a single stand-alone dental plan.


(B) The employer may choose to make available all stand-alone dental plans offered through a SHOP.


(iv) A SHOP may also provide a qualified employer with a choice of a third method to make QHPs available to qualified employees by offering its qualified employees a choice of all QHPs offered through the SHOP by a single issuer across all available levels of coverage, as described in section 1302(d)(1) of the Affordable Care Act and implemented in § 156.140(b) of this subchapter. A State with a Federally-facilitated SHOP may recommend that the Federally-facilitated SHOP not make this additional option available in that State, by submitting a letter to HHS in advance of the annual QHP certification application deadline, by a date to be established by HHS. The State's letter must describe and justify the State's recommendation, based on the anticipated impact this additional option would have on the small group market and consumers.


(v) A SHOP may also provide a qualified employer with a choice of a third method to make stand-alone dental plans available to qualified employees by offering its qualified employees a choice of all stand-alone dental plans offered through the SHOP by a single issuer. A State with a Federally-facilitated SHOP may recommend that the Federally-facilitated SHOP not make this additional option available in that State, by submitting a letter to HHS in advance of the annual QHP certification application deadline, by a date to be established by HHS. The State's letter must describe and justify the State's recommendation, based on the anticipated impact this additional option would have on the small group market and consumers.


(vi) States operating a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions will have the same employer choice models available as States with a Federally-facilitated SHOP, except that a State with a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions may decide against offering the employer choice models specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv) and (v) of this section in that State, provided that the State notifies HHS of that decision in advance of the annual QHP certification application deadline, by a date to be established by HHS.


(4) *Continuation of Coverage.* The SHOP may, upon an election by a qualified employer, enter into an agreement with a qualified employer to facilitate the administration of continuation coverage by collecting premiums for continuation coverage enrolled in through the SHOP directly from a person enrolled in continuation coverage through the SHOP consistent with applicable law and the terms of the group health plan, and remitting premium payments for this coverage to QHP issuers.


(5) *QHP Certification.* With respect to certification of QHPs in the small group market, the SHOP must ensure each QHP meets the requirements specified in § 156.285 of this subchapter.


(6) *Rates and rate changes.* The SHOP must—


(i) Require all QHP issuers to make any change to rates at a uniform time that is no more frequently than quarterly.


(A) In a Federally-facilitated SHOP, rates may be updated quarterly with effective dates of January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1 of each calendar year. The updated rates must be submitted to HHS at least 60 days in advance of the effective date of the rates.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) Prohibit all QHP issuers from varying rates for a qualified employer during the employer's plan year.


(7) *QHP availability in merged markets.* If a State merges the individual market and the small group market risk pools in accordance with section 1312(c)(3) of the Affordable Care Act, the SHOP may permit employer groups to enroll in any QHP meeting level of coverage requirements described in section 1302(d) of the Affordable Care Act.


(8) *QHP availability in unmerged markets.* If a State does not merge the individual and small group market risk pools, the SHOP must permit employer groups to enroll only in QHPs in the small group market.


(9) *SHOP expansion to large group market.* If a State elects to expand the SHOP to the large group market, a SHOP must allow issuers of health insurance coverage in the large group market in the State to offer QHPs in such market through a SHOP beginning in 2017 provided that a large employer meets the qualified employer requirements other than that it be a small employer.


(10) *Participation rules.* Subject to § 147.104 of this subchapter, the SHOP may authorize a uniform group participation rate for the offering of health insurance coverage in the SHOP, which must be a single, uniform rate that applies to all groups and issuers in the SHOP. If the SHOP authorizes a minimum participation rate, such rate must be based on the rate of employee participation in the SHOP, not on the rate of employee participation in any particular QHP or QHPs of any particular issuer.


(i) Subject to § 147.104 of this subchapter, a Federally-facilitated SHOP must use a minimum participation rate of 70 percent, calculated as the number of full-time employees accepting coverage offered by a qualified employer plus the number of full-time employees who, at the time the employer submits the SHOP group enrollment, are enrolled in coverage through another group health plan, governmental coverage (such as Medicare, Medicaid, or TRICARE), coverage sold through the individual market, or in other minimum essential coverage, divided by the number of full-time employees offered coverage.


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(10)(i) of this section, a Federally-facilitated SHOP may utilize a different minimum participation rate in a State if there is evidence that a State law sets a minimum participation rate or that a higher or lower minimum participation rate is customarily used by the majority of QHP issuers in that State for products in the State's small group market outside the SHOP.


(11) *Premium calculator.* In the SHOP, the premium calculator described in § 155.205(b)(6) must facilitate the comparison of available QHPs.


(c) *Coordination with individual market Exchange for eligibility determinations.* A SHOP that collects employee eligibility or enrollment data must provide data related to eligibility and enrollment of a qualified employee to the individual market Exchange that corresponds to the service area of the SHOP, unless the SHOP is operated pursuant to § 155.100(a)(2).


(d) *Duties of Navigators in the SHOP.* In States that have elected to operate only a SHOP pursuant to § 155.100(a)(2), at State option and if State law permits the Navigator duties described in § 155.210(e)(3) and (4) may be fulfilled through referrals to agents and brokers.


(e) *Applicability date.* The provisions of this section apply for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.



---

[N] [83 FR 17064, Apr. 17, 2018]




