# § 4.33   Limitations on submitting applications.

(a) *Limitations on submission and acceptance of a preliminary permit application.* The Commission will not accept an application for a preliminary permit for project works that:


(1) Would develop, conserve, and utilize, in whole or in part, the same water resources that would be developed, conserved, and utilized by a project for which there is an unexpired preliminary permit.


(2) Would interfere with a licensed project in a manner that, absent the licensee's consent, would be precluded by Section 6 of the Federal Power Act.


(3) Would develop, conserve, and utilize, in whole or in part, the same water resources that would be developed, conserved, and utilized by a project for which an initial development application has been filed unless the preliminary permit application is filed not later than the time allowed under § 4.36(a) for the filing of applications in competition against an initial application for a preliminary permit that would develop, conserve, and utilize, in whole or in part, the same resources.


(b) *Limitations on submissions and acceptance of a license application.* The Commission will not accept an application for a license or project works that would develop, conserve, or utilize, in whole or part, the same water resources that would be developed, conserved, and utilized by a project for which there is:


(1) An unexpired preliminary permit, unless the permittee has submitted an application for license; or


(2) An unexpired license, except as provided for in Section 15 of the Federal Power Act.


(c) *Limitations on submission and acceptance of an application for a license that would affect an exempted project.* (1) Except as permitted under § 4.33(c)(2), § 4.94(d), or § 4.106 (c), (e) or (f), the Commission will not accept an application for a license for project works that are already exempted from licensing under this part.


(2) If a project is exempted from licensing pursuant to § 4.103 or § 4.109 and real property interests in any non-Federal lands would be necessary to develop or operate the project, any person who is both a qualified license applicant and has any of those real property interests in non-Federal lands may submit a license application for that project. If a license application is submitted under this clause, any other qualified license applicant may submit a competing license application in accordance with § 4.36.


(d) *Limitations on submission and acceptance of exemption applications*—(1) *Unexpired permit or license.* (i) If there is an unexpired permit in effect for a project, the Commission will accept an application for exemption of that project from licensing only if the exemption applicant is the permittee. Upon acceptance for filing of the permittee's application, the permit will be considered to have expired.


(ii) If there is an unexpired license in effect for a project, the Commission will accept an application for exemption of that project from licensing only if the exemption applicant is the licensee.


(2) *Pending license applications.* If an accepted license application for a project was submitted by a permittee before the preliminary permit expired, the Commission will not accept an application for exemption of that project from licensing submitted by a person other than the former permittee.


(3) *Submitted by qualified exemption applicant.* If the first accepted license application for a project was filed by a qualified exemption applicant, the applicant may request that its license application be treated initially as an application for exemption from licensing by so notifying the Commission in writing and, unless only rights to use or occupy Federal lands would be necessary to develop and operate the project, by submitting documentary evidence showing that the applicant holds the real property interests required under § 4.31. Such notice and documentation must be submitted not later than the last date for filing protests or motions to intervene prescribed in the public notice issued for its license application under § 4.32(d)(2).


(e) *Priority of exemption applicant's earlier permit or license application.* Any accepted preliminary permit or license application submitted by a person who later applies for exemption of the project from licensing will retain its validity and priority under this subpart until the preliminary permit or license application is withdrawn or the project is exempted from licensing.



---

[N] [Order 413, 50 FR 11680, Mar. 25, 1985, as amended by Order 499, 53 FR 27002, July 18, 1988; Order 2002, 68 FR 51116, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 699, 72 FR 45324, Aug. 14, 2007]




