# § 801.7   Rules and regulations for the BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States.

The BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States, is conducted to collect data on the acquisition or establishment of U.S. business enterprises by foreign investors and the expansion of existing U.S. affiliates of foreign companies to establish new facilities where business is conducted. Foreign direct investment is defined as the ownership or control by one foreign person (foreign parent) of 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated U.S. business enterprise, or an equivalent interest of an unincorporated U.S. business enterprise, including a branch. BEA will describe the proposed information collection in a public notice and will solicit comments according to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520). All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 and 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-13 survey are given in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report forms and instructions.


(a) *Response required.* A response is required from persons subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States, contained herein, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a person, or their agent, who is contacted by BEA about reporting in this survey, either by sending them a report form or by written inquiry, must respond in writing pursuant to this section. This may be accomplished by filing the properly completed BE-13 report (BE-13A, BE-13B, BE-13D, BE-13E, or BE-13 Claim for Exemption).


(b) *Who must report.* A BE-13 report is required of any U.S. business enterprise, except certain private funds, see exception in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, in which:


(1) A foreign direct investment in the United States relationship is created;


(2) An existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent establishes a new U.S. business enterprise, expands its U.S. operations, or acquires a U.S. business enterprise; or


(3) BEA requests a cost update (Form BE-13E) for a U.S. business enterprise that previously filed Form BE-13B or BE-13D.


(4) Certain private funds are exempt from reporting on the BE-13 survey. If a U.S. business enterprise is a private fund and does not own, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of another business enterprise that is not also a private fund or a holding company, it is not required to file any BE-13 report except to indicate exemption from the survey if contacted by BEA.


(c) *Forms to be filed.* Depending on the type of investment transaction, U.S. affiliates would report their information on one of five forms—BE-13A, BE-13B, BE-13D, BE-13E, or BE-13 Claim for Exemption.


(1) Form BE-13A—report for a U.S. business enterprise when a foreign entity acquires a voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in that U.S. business enterprise including segments, operating units, or real estate; and


(i) The total cost of the acquisition is greater than $3 million; and


(ii) By this acquisition, the foreign entity now owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in the acquired U.S. business enterprise.


(2) Form BE-13B—report for a U.S. business enterprise when it is established by a foreign entity or by an existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent; and


(i) The expected total cost to establish the new U.S. business enterprise is greater than $3 million; and


(ii) The foreign entity owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in the new U.S. business enterprise.


(3) Form BE-13D—report for an existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent when it expands its operations to include a new facility where business is conducted, and the expected total cost of the expansion is greater than $3 million.


(4) Form BE-13E—report for a U.S. business enterprise that previously filed Form BE-13B or BE-13D. Form BE-13E collects updated cost information and will be collected annually for three years after the year of the establishment or expansion of the U.S. business enterprise.


(5) Form BE-13 Claim for Exemption—report for a U.S. business enterprise that:


(i) Was contacted by BEA but does not meet the requirements for filing Forms BE-13A, BE-13B, or BE-13D; or


(ii) Whether or not contacted by BEA, met all requirements for filing Forms BE-13A, BE-13B, or BE-13D except the $3 million reporting threshold.


(d) *Due date.* The BE-13 forms are due no later than 45 calendar days after the acquisition is completed, the new U. S. business enterprise is established, the expansion is begun, the cost update is requested, or a notification letter is received from BEA by a U.S. business enterprise that does not meet the filing requirements for the survey.



---

[N] [87 FR 58956, Sept. 29, 2022]




