# § 16.207   Public access to nonexempt transcripts and minutes of closed Commission meetings—Documents used at meetings—Record retention.

(a) *Public access to records.* Within a reasonable time after any closed meeting, the Commission shall make available to the public, in the Commission's Public Reading Room located at 5550 Friendship Boulevard, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815-7286, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at such meeting, maintained hereunder, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony which contain information exempt under any provision of the Government in the Sunshine Act (Pub. L. 94-409), or of any amendment thereto. Copies of nonexempt transcripts, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.


(b) Access to documents identified or discussed in any Commission meeting, open or closed, shall be governed by Department of Justice regulations at this part 16, subparts C and D. The Commission reserves the right to invoke statutory exemptions to disclosure of such documents under 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a, and applicable regulations. The exemptions provided in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c) shall apply to any request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552 or 552a to copy and inspect any transcripts, recordings or minutes prepared or maintained pursuant hereto.


(c) *Retention of records.* The Commission shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, or a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.



---

[N] [42 FR 14713, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended by Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981]




