# § 17.602   Eligibility.

(a) To be eligible for a scholarship under this program an applicant must—


(1) Be unconditionally accepted for enrollment or be enrolled as a full-time student in an accredited school located in a State;


(2) Be pursuing a degree annually designated by the Secretary for participation in the Scholarship Program;


(3) Be in a discipline or program annually designated by the Secretary for participation in the Scholarship Program;


(4) Be a citizen of the United States; and


(5) Submit an application to participate in the Scholarship Program together with a signed contract.


(6) *Clinical tours.* An applicant for a scholarship under the HPSP must agree to perform clinical tours while enrolled in the course of education or training for which the scholarship is provided. VA will determine the assignments and locations of the clinical tour.


(b) To be eligible for a scholarship as a part-time student under this program, an applicant must satisfy requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and in addition must— 


(1) Be a full-time VA employee permanently assigned to a VA health care facility at the time of application and on the date when the scholarship is awarded; 


(2) Remain a VA employee for the duration of the scholarship award.


(c) Any applicant who, at the time of application, owes a service obligation to any other entity to perform service after completion of the course of study is ineligible to receive a scholarship under the Department of Veterans Affairs Scholarship Program.



---

[N] [47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 37399, Aug. 18, 1983; 54 FR 28674, July 7, 1989; 78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013; 89 FR 51446, June 18, 2024]




