# ยง 8b.5   Assurances required.

(a) *Assurances.* An applicant for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies shall submit an assurance, on a form specified by the Secretary, that the program or activity will be operated in compliance with this part. An applicant may incorporate these assurances by reference in subsequent applications to the Department.


(b) *Duration of obligation.* (1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended in the form of real property or structures on the property, the assurance will obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used for the purpose for which Federal financial assistance is extended, or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits.


(2) In case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, the assurance will obligate the recipient for the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property.


(3) In all other cases, the assurance will obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended or the federally-funded program or activity is operated, whichever is longer.


(c) *Covenants.* (1) Where Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of real property or interest in the property from the Department, the instrument effecting or recording this transfer shall contain a covenant running with the land to assure nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits.


(2) Where no transfer or property is involved but property is purchased or improved with Federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include the covenant described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in the instrument effecting or recording any subsequent transferee of the property.


(3) Where Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of real property or interest in the property from the Department, the covenant shall also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by the Department to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant. If a transferee of real property proposed to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real property as security to finance construction of new, or improvement of existing, facilities on the property for the purposes for which the property was transferred, the Secretary may agree to forbear the exercise of such right to revert title for so long as the lien of such mortgage or other encumbrance remains effective. Such an agreement by the Secretary may be entered into only upon the request of the transferee (recipient) if it is necessary to accomplish such financing and upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate.


(d) *Interagency agreements.* Where funds are granted by the Department to another Federal agency to carry out the objectives of Federal financial assistance under a law administered by the Department, and where the grant obligates the recipient agency to comply with the rules and regulations of the Department applicable to that grant the provisions of this part shall apply to programs or activities operated with such funds.




