# ยง 1912.44   Definitions.

As used in this part 1912, unless the context clearly requires otherwise: 


(a) *Act* means the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1590; 29 U.S.C. 650). 


(b)(1) For purposes of implementing the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the term *Advisory Committee* has the same meaning as set forth in section 3 (2) thereof. Hence, the term includes subcommittees to the extent that the conduct of their meetings relates to matters regulated by the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Consistent with that definition as interpreted in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-63, the term does not include informal subgroups having few characteristics of formal advisory committees. 


(2)(i) For purposes of the Act, the term means any committee appointed under section 7(b) thereof to provide advice to the Assistant Secretary in the development of occupational safety and health standards under the Act. 


(ii) The term also includes the Advisory Committee on Construction Safety and Health established under the Construction Safety Act. 


(c) *Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health. 


(d) *Committee charter* means an order, statement or proclamation of the Assistant Secretary establishing, continuing, or using an advisory committee, as the case may be. 


(e) *Construction Safety Act* means section 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (83 Stat. 96; 40 U.S.C. 333). 




