# ยง 1210.7   Filing an appeal and a response to an appeal.

(a) *Place for filing an appeal and a response.* Appeals, and responses to those appeals, must be filed with the appropriate Board regional or field office. See ยง 1201.4(d) of this chapter.


(b) *Time for filing an appeal and agency response.* An appeal of an action taken pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 713 must be filed no later than 7 days after the effective date of the removal or transfer being appealed. (38 U.S.C. 713(d)(2)(B)). An agency response must be filed within 3 days of the filing of the appeal.


(c) *Timeliness of appeals.* If an appellant does not submit an appeal within 7 days of the effective date of the action it will be dismissed as untimely filed. This deadline cannot be extended for any reason. (38 U.S.C. 713(d)(2)(B)). However, if an appellant establishes that he or she attempted to file an appeal using e-Appeal Online within the 7-day deadline and that the filing was unsuccessful due to a problem with e-Appeal Online, the administrative judge may deem the filing to have been completed on the date it was attempted, provided the appellant took reasonable steps to immediately advise the MSPB of the failed attempt to file the appeal using e-Appeal Online. The 21-day deadline for issuance of a decision will commence on the day such an appeal was deemed to have been filed.


(d) *Time limits for other appeals not brought under 38 U.S.C. 713.* The time limit prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section for filing an appeal does not apply where a law or regulation establishes a different time limit or where there is no applicable time limit. No time limit applies to appeals under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (Pub. L. 103-353), as amended; see part 1208 of this chapter for the statutory filing time limits applicable to appeals under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (Pub. L. 105-339); see part 1209 of this chapter for the statutory filing time limits applicable to whistleblower appeals and stay requests.




