# § 51.350   Provision of certain specialized services and environmental requirements.

The State home domiciliary care programs must comply with the requirements of § 51.140, except § 51.140(f)(2) through (4) concerning dietary services; § 51.170 concerning dental services; § 51.180, except § 51.180(c) concerning pharmacy services; § 51.190 concerning infection control; and § 51.200, except § 51.200(a), (b), (d)(1)(ii) through (x), (f), and (h)(3) concerning the physical environment. For purposes of this section, the references to “facility” in the cited sections also refer to a domiciliary.


(a) *Dietary services.* (1) There must be no more than 14 hours between a substantial evening meal and the availability of breakfast the following day, except as provided in (a)(3) of this section.


(2) The facility staff must offer snacks at bedtime daily.


(3) Sixteen hours may elapse between a substantial evening meal and breakfast the following day when a nourishing snack is offered at bedtime.


(b) *Pharmacy services.* (1) The drug regimen of each resident must be reviewed at least once every six months by a licensed pharmacist.


(2) The pharmacist must report any irregularities to the primary care physician and the director of nursing, and these reports must be acted upon.


(c) *Life safety from fire.* The facility must meet the applicable requirements of the National Fire Protection Association's NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, as incorporated by reference in § 51.200.


(d) *Privacy.* The facility must provide the means for visual privacy for each resident.


