# § 204.55-2   Requirements.

(a)(1) Prior to distribution in commerce, compressors of a specific configuration must verify such configurations in accordance with this subpart.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) At any time with respect to a configuration under this subpart, the Administrator may require that the manufacturer ship test compressors to an EPA test facility in order for the Administrator to perform the tests required for production verification.


(b) The requirements for purposes of testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing consist of:


(1) Testing in accordance with § 204.54 of a compressor selected in accordance with § 204.57-2; and


(2) Compliance of the test compressor with the applicable standards when tested in accordance with § 204.54.


(c)(1) In lieu of testing compressors of every configuration, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer may elect to verify the configuration based on representative testing, the requirements of which consist of: 


(i) Grouping configurations into a category where each category will be determined by a separate combination of at least the following parameters (a manufacturer may use more parameters): 


(A) Engine type. 


(*1*) Gasoline—two stroke cycle 


(*2*) Gasoline—four stroke cycle 


(*3*) Diesel—two stroke cycle 


(*4*) Diesel—four stroke cycle 


(*5*) Rotary—Wankel 


(*6*) Turbine 


(*7*) Other 


(B) Engine manufacturer 


(C) Compressor delivery rate (at rated pressure) 


(ii) Identifying the configuration within each category which emits the highest sound level in dBA based on best technical judgment, emission test data, or both. 


(iii) Testing in accordance with § 204.54 selected in accordance with § 204.57-2 which must be a compressor of the configuration which is identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section as having the highest sound level (estimated or actual) within the category.


(iv) Compliance of the test compressor with applicable standards when tested in accordance with § 204.54.


(2) Where the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are complied with, all those configurations contained within a category are considered represented by the tested compressor.


(3) Where the manufacturer tests a compressor configuration which has not been determined as having the highest sound level of a category, but all other requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are complied with, all those configurations contained within that category which are determined to have sound levels no greater than the tested compressor are considered to be represented by the tested compressor: However, a manufacturer must for purposes of Testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing verify according to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) and/or (c)(1) of this section any configurations in the subject category which have a higher sound level than the compressor configuration tested. 


(d) A manufacturer may elect for purposes of Testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing to use representative testing, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, all or part of his product line.


(e) The manufacturer may, at his option, proceed with any of the following alternatives with respect to any compressor determined not in compliance with applicable standards: 


(1) In the case of representative testing, a new test compressor from another configuration must be selected according to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section in order to verify the configurations represented by the non-compliant compressor.


(2) Modify the test compressor and demonstrate by testing that it meets applicable standards. The manufacturer must modify all production compressors of the same configuration in the same manner as the test compressor before distribution into commerce.



---

[N] [41 FR 2172, Jan. 14, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 61455, Dec. 5, 1977; 47 FR 57711, Dec. 28, 1982; 49 FR 26738, June 29, 1984] 




