# ยง 27.71   Commercial filming and still photography and audio recording.

(a) We authorize commercial filming and still photography on national wildlife refuges under the provisions of 43 CFR part 5.


(b) Audio recording does not require a permit unless:


(1) It takes place at location(s) where or when members of the public are not allowed;


(2) It uses equipment that cannot be carried or held by one person;


(3) It uses equipment that requires an external power source; or


(4) We would incur additional administrative costs to provide management and oversight of the permitted activity to:


(i) Avoid unacceptable impacts and impairment to wildlife or resource values;


(ii) Minimize health or safety risks to the visiting public


(c) Failure to comply with any provision of 43 CFR part 5 is a violation of this section.


(d) The location fee schedule for still photography conducted according to a permit issued under 43 CFR part 5 will apply to audio recording permits issued under this part.


(e) We will collect and retain cost recovery charges associated with processing permit requests and monitoring the permitted activities.


(f) *Information collection.* A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor and you are not required to respond to a collection of information, unless it displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number. The information collection requirements contained in this section have been approved by the OMB under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and assigned control number 1018-0102. The information is being collected to provide agency managers data necessary to issue permits and grant administrative benefits. The obligation to respond is required to obtain or retain a benefit. You may send comments on this information collection requirement to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street NW., Mailstop 2042-PDM, Washington, DC 20240.



---

[N] [78 FR 52097, Aug. 22, 2013]




