# § 14.102   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions contained in part 10 of subchapter B of this chapter, in this subpart—


*Ambient air temperature* means the temperature of the air surrounding a primary enclosure containing a wild mammal or bird.


*Auxiliary ventilation* means cooling or air circulation provided by such means as vents, fans, blowers, or air conditioning.


*Carrier* means any person operating an airline, railroad, motor carrier, shipping line, or other enterprise engaged in the business of transporting any wild mammal or bird for any purpose including exhibition and for any person, including itself.


*Communicable disease* means any contagious, infectious, or transmissible disease of wild mammals or birds.


*Conveyance* means any vehicle, vessel, or aircraft employed to transport an animal between its origin and destination.


*Do not tip* means do not excessively rock or otherwise move from a vertical to a slanting position, knock over, or upset.


*Handle* means feed, manipulate, crate, shift, transfer, immobilize, restrain, treat, or otherwise control the movement or activities of any wild mammal or bird.


*Holding area* means a designated area at or within a terminal facility that has been specially prepared to provide shelter and other requirements of wild mammals or birds being transported to the United States and in which such mammals or birds are maintained prior to, during, or following such shipment.


*Kept clean* means maintained free from dirt, trash, refuse, excreta, remains from other cargo, and impurities of any type.


*Marine mammal* means an individual of a species of the orders Cetacea, Pinnipedia, or Sirenia, or a polar bear (*Ursus maritimus*) or sea otter (*Enhydra lutris*).


*Noncompatible* means not capable of existing together in harmony.


*Nonhuman primate* means any nonhuman member of the order Primates.


*Normal rigors of transportation* means the stress that a wild animal can be expected to experience as a result of exposure to unaccustomed surroundings, unfamiliar confinement, caging, unfamiliar sounds, motion, and other conditions commonly encountered during transport.


*Primary enclosure* means any structure used to restrict a mammal or bird to a limited amount of space, such as a cage, room, pen, run, stall, pool, or hutch.


*Professionally accepted standards* means a level of practice established as acceptable by a body of qualified persons of the veterinary medical profession.


*Psychological trauma* means an episode of exposure to stressful conditions resulting in significant behavioral abnormality including, but not limited to, manifestations of unaccustomed aggressiveness, self-mutilation, or refusal of food or water.


*Raptor* means a live migratory bird of the order Falconiformes or the order Strigiformes.


*Sanitize* means to make physically clean and, as far as possible, free of toxic or infectious agents injurious to the health of wild mammals or birds.


*Scheduled departure time* means the time listed on a timetable of departures and arrivals or, in the absence of a timetable, the time of departure agreed to by a carrier and shipper.


*Shipper* means any person, other than a carrier, involved in the transport of wild animals to the United States regardless of the purpose of such transport; e.g., exporter, importer, or agent.


*Terrestrial mammals* means mammals other than marine mammals.


*Transport* means to move, convey, carry, or ship by any means, or to deliver or receive for the purpose of movement, carriage, or shipment, by air, land, or sea.


*Transporting device* means any vehicle or device used to transport an animal between a conveyance and a terminal facility, in and around a terminal facility of a carrier, or within a conveyance.


*Unweaned* means a bird or mammal incapable of feeding itself independently.


*Wild* means the same as fish or wildlife, as defined in § 10.12 of this chapter.




