# § 721.11372   Phenol-formaldehyde epoxy, polymer with an alkyl polyether polysulfide (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phenol-formaldehyde epoxy, polymer with an alkyl polyether polysulfide (PMN P-19-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i), (ii), and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), and (g)(4) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Internal organ effects; reproductive effects; cancer; skin and respiratory sensitization; germ cell mutagenicity. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(4), notice to users: Water release restrictions apply. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46149, Aug. 18, 2021]




