# ยง 42.403   Agency regulations.

(a) Any federal agency subject to title VI which has not issued a regulation implementing title VI shall do so as promptly as possible and, no later than the effective date of this subpart, shall submit a proposed regulation to the Assistant Attorney General pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) Any federal agency which becomes subject to title VI after the effective date of this subpart shall, within 60 days of the date it becomes subject to title VI, submit a proposed regulation to the Assistant Attorney General pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) Regarding issuance or amendment of its regulation implementing title VI, a federal agency shall take the following steps:


(1) Before publishing a proposed regulation of amendment in the _Federal Register,_ submit it to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division;


(2) After receiving the approval of the Assistant Attorney General, publish the proposed regulation or amendment in the _Federal Register_ for comment;


(3) After final agency approval, submit the regulation or amendment, through the Assistant Attorney General, to the Attorney General for final approval. (Executive Order 12250 delegates to the Attorney General the function, vested in the President by section 602 of title VI, 42 U.S.C. 2000d-1, of approving title VI regulations and amendments to them.)


(d) The title VI regulation of each federal agency shall be supplemented with an appendix listing the types of federal financial assistance, i.e., the statutes authorizing such assistance, to which the regulation applies. Each such appendix shall be kept up-to-date by amendments published, at appropriate intervals, in the _Federal Register._ In issuing or amending such an appendix, the agency need not follow the procedure set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [Order No. 670-76, 41 FR 52669, Dec. 1, 1976, as amended by Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981]




