# ยง 23.49   What are the requirements for an exhibition traveling internationally?

(a) *Purpose.* Article VII(7) of the Treaty grants an exemption for specimens that qualify as bred in captivity, artificially propagated, or pre-Convention and are part of a traveling exhibition.


(b) *U.S. and foreign general provisions.* The following general provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of a certificate for live wildlife and plants, or their parts, products, or derivatives in an exhibition that travels internationally:


(1) The Management Authority in the country of the exhibitor's primary place of business must have determined that the specimens are bred in captivity, artificially propagated, or pre-Convention and issued a traveling-exhibition certificate.


(2) The certificate must indicate that the wildlife or plant is part of a traveling exhibition.


(3) A separate certificate must be issued for each live wildlife specimen; a CITES document may be issued for more than one specimen for a traveling exhibition of live plants and dead parts, products, or derivatives of wildlife and plants.


(4) The certificate is not transferable.


(5) Parties should treat the certificate like a passport for import and export or re-export from each country, and should not collect the original certificate at the border.


(6) Parties should check specimens closely to determine that each specimen matches the certificate and ensure that each live specimen is being transported and cared for in a manner that minimizes the risk of injury, damage to health, or cruel treatment of the specimen.


(7) If offspring are born or a new specimen is acquired while the traveling exhibition is in another country, the exhibitor must obtain the appropriate CITES document for the export or re-export of the specimen from the Management Authority of that country.


(8) Upon returning home, the exhibitor may apply for a traveling-exhibition certificate for wildlife born overseas or for wildlife or plants acquired overseas.


(c) *U.S. application form.* Complete Form 3-200-30 for wildlife and Form 3-200-32 for plants, and submit it to the U.S. Management Authority.


(d) *Criteria.* The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign certificates. When applying for a U.S. certificate, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your proposed activity meets all of the following criteria:


(1) The traveling exhibition makes multiple cross-border movements, and will return to the country in which the exhibition is based before the certificate expires.


(2) The cross-border movement must be for exhibition, and not for breeding, propagating, or activities other than exhibition.


(3) The traveling exhibition is based in the country that issued the certificate.


(4) The specimen meets the criteria for a bred-in-captivity certificate, certificate for artificially propagated plants, or pre-Convention certificate.


(5) The exhibitor does not intend to sell or otherwise transfer the wildlife or plant while traveling internationally.


(6) The wildlife or plant is securely marked or identified in such a way that border officials can verify that the certificate and specimen correspond. If a microchip is used, we may, if necessary, ask the importer, exporter, or re-exporter to have equipment on hand to read the microchip at the time of import, export, or re-export.


(e) *U.S. standard conditions.* In addition to the conditions in ยง 23.56, you must meet all of the following conditions:


(1) The certificate may be used by you, and you must not transfer or assign it to another person or traveling exhibition.


(2) You must transport the specimen internationally only for exhibition, not for breeding, propagating, or activities other than exhibition.


(3) You must present the certificate to the official for validation at each border crossing.


(4)For live plants, the quantity of plants must be reasonable for the purpose of the traveling exhibition.


(5) You must not sell or otherwise transfer the specimen, or any offspring born to such specimen, while traveling internationally.


(6) If the certificate is lost, stolen, or accidentally destroyed, you may obtain a replacement certificate only from the U.S. Management Authority.


(7) If you no longer own the wildlife or plants, or no longer plan to travel as a traveling exhibition, the original certificate must be immediately returned to the U.S. Management Authority.


(8) You must return the traveling exhibition to the United States before the certificate expires.




