# ยง 1204.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052), the following definitions apply for the purposes of this standard.


(a) *Antenna system* means a device for radiating and/or receiving radio waves. Where they are present, the antenna system includes active elements, ground plane elements, matching networks, element-connecting hardware, mounting hardware, feed cable, and other functional or non-functional elements.


(b) *Antenna-mast system* means the completed assembly of the antenna system and the mast.


(c) *Base station* means a transmitter and/or receiver in a fixed location.


(d) *Citizens Band (CB)* means the frequency band allocated for citizen's band radio service.


(e) *Current* means the total rate at which electrical charge is transported through the antenna-mast system in response to the applied test voltage, including both capacitive and resistive components.


(f) *Electrical breakdown* means a failure of the insulating material used with the antenna, such that in the Antenna-Mast System Test of ยง 1204.4(e) of this subpart, the current flowing through the antenna-mast system is sufficient to actuate the automatic internal cut-off of the high voltage source or exceeds the current that can be measured by the current monitoring device.


(g) *Feed cable* means the electrical cable that connects the antenna system to the transmitter and/or receiver.


(h) *Field joint* means any joint between antenna system sections or parts, or between the antenna system and the mast, that is not assembled by the antenna manufacturer.


(i) *Insulating material and insulation* mean a material that has a very small electric conductivity.


(j) *Omnidirectional antenna* means an antenna system designed or intended primarily to exhibit approximately equal signal transmission or reception capabilities in all horizontal directions simultaneously.


(k) *Protection zone* means that portion of an antenna system which can contact the test rod during the Insulating Material Effectiveness Test or can contact the power line during the Antenna-Mast System Test. This zone consists of those elements of the antenna system extending from the uppermost tip of an upright antenna downward to a point that is 12.0 inches (30.5 cm) above the top of the mast when the antenna system is mounted according to the manufacturer's instructions.


(l) *Voltage, phase to ground,* means that voltage which exists between a single phase of a three phase power system and ground.




