# § 54.05-5   Toughness test specimens.

(a) *Charpy V-notch impact tests.* Where required, Charpy V-notch tests must be conducted in accordance with ASTM E23 (incorporated by reference, see § 54.01-1), using the Type A specimen shown in ASTM E23—Figure 4. Special attention is drawn to the fact that the Charpy Keyhole and U-notch specimens are not acceptable substitutes for the Charpy V-notch specimen and must not be used to qualify materials within the scope of this subpart. Each set of Charpy impact tests must consist of three specimens. For materials 
1/2-inch thick or less, the largest possible Charpy specimens for that thickness must be cut centered at the material's mid-thickness. For materials thicker than 
1/2-inch, full size Charpy specimens must be cut centered at a location as near as practicable to a point midway between the material's surface and half-thickness. Except where otherwise specified, transversely oriented specimens must be used. When longitudinal specimens are used, the required energy values may not be less than 1.5 times the values required for transversely oriented specimens. In all cases, the notch must be cut normal to the material's surface. Test specimens must be taken at least one “t” from any heat-treated edge (where “t” is the material's nominal thickness).


(b) *Drop weight tests.* Where required, drop weight tests must be conducted for no-break performance in accordance with ASTM E208 (incorporated by reference, see § 54.01-1). For material thicknesses between 
1/2-inch and
 5/8-inch, the ASTM E208 specimen P-3, machined to 
1/2-inch thickness, must be used with a stop distance of 0.090-inch. In preparing weld specimens for drop weight testing, weld reinforcement must be ground flush, the hard facing bead centered on and transverse to the weld, and the notch centered on and parallel to the weld axis.


(c) *Retest procedures.* (1) When Charpy V-notch impact specimens are used and the average value of the three initial specimens fails to meet the stated requirements by an amount not exceeding 15 percent, or the value for more than one specimen is below the required average value of when the value for one specimen is below the minimum value permitted for a single specimen by an amount not exceeding 15 percent, three additional specimens from the same material may be tested and the results combined with those previously obtained to form a new average. This new average of six specimens must exceed the specified minimum average. In the event the Charpy retests fail, the material may still be qualified by exhibiting a no-break performance when tested in accordance with the drop weight procedure, if applicable. Two drop weight specimens must be tested for each Charpy V-notch set of three initial specimens which failed to qualify. Failure of either or both of these drop weight specimens will constitute rejection of the material or weldments represented, except as outlined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) When drop weight specimens are used, retests are permitted only within the limits prescribed in ASTM E208, except as outlined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(3) If, for heat treated base material, the required toughness results are not obtained in the initial test or in the retest, the material may be reheat treated one time and tested again in accordance with the initial requirements for the material.


(d) *Alternate toughness tests.* The Charpy V-notch impact values of §§ 54.05-20(a) and 54.05-25(a) are representative of those which correlate with the nil-ductility transition temperature determined by the drop-weight tests for the steels specified in § 54.25-10. For materials for which there are other data showing suitable correlation between Charpy V-notch and drop-weight tests, V-notch acceptance limits different from those tabulated herein may be specially approved by the Commandant, based upon the actual correlation. In the case of steels for which the tabulated Charpy V-notch values can be shown to be inapplicable or in the case of specially considered steels, or as an alternative to complying with the tabulated impact requirements, acceptance may be based upon the material exhibiting a no-break performance when tested in accordance with the drop-weight procedure. Whenever the drop-weight test is used as an alternative to the Charpy V-notch test, two drop-weight specimens must be tested for each set of three Charpy V-notch specimens otherwise required. If the drop-weight test cannot be performed because of material thickness limitations (less than one-half inch) or product shape, or is otherwise inapplicable (because of heat treatment, chemistry, etc.), other tests and/or test criteria will be specified by the Commandant to assure the adequacy of the material for the intended application.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18828, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by CGD 73-254, 40 FR 40163, Sept. 2, 1975; USCG-2000-7790, 65 FR 58460, Sept. 29, 2000]




