# § 11.1   Definitions.

This part governs solely the practice of patent, trademark, and other law before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Nothing in this part shall be construed to preempt the authority of each State to regulate the practice of law, except to the extent necessary for the United States Patent and Trademark Office to accomplish its Federal objectives. Unless otherwise clear from the context, the following definitions apply to this part:


*Attorney* or *lawyer* means an individual who is an active member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State. A *non-lawyer* means a person who is not an attorney or lawyer.


*Belief* or *believes* means that the person involved actually supposed the fact in question to be true. A person's belief may be inferred from circumstances.


*Confirmed in writing,* when used in reference to the informed consent of a person, means informed consent that is given in writing by the person or a writing that a practitioner promptly transmits to the person confirming an oral informed consent. If it is not feasible to obtain or transmit the writing at the time the person gives informed consent, then the practitioner must obtain or transmit it within a reasonable time thereafter. 


*Conviction* or *convicted* means any confession to a crime; a verdict or judgment finding a person guilty of a crime; any entered plea, including *nolo contendere* or Alford plea, to a crime; or receipt of deferred adjudication (whether judgment or sentence has been entered or not) for an accused or pled crime.


*Crime* means any offense declared to be a felony or misdemeanor by Federal or State law in the jurisdiction where the act occurs.


*Data sheet* means a form used to collect the name, address, and telephone information from individuals recognized to practice before the Office in patent matters.






*Design patent practitioner* means a practitioner who is registered under § 11.6(d).




*Disqualified* means any action that prohibits a practitioner from participating in or appearing before the program or agency, regardless of how long the prohibition lasts or the specific terminology used.


*Federal agency* means any authority of the executive branch of the Government of the United States.


*Federal program* means any program established by an Act of Congress or administered by a Federal agency.


*Firm* or *law firm* means a practitioner or practitioners in a law partnership, professional corporation, sole proprietorship or other association authorized to practice law; or practitioners employed in a legal services organization or the legal department of a corporation or other organization.


*Fiscal year* means the time period from October 1st through the ensuing September 30th.


*Fraud* or *fraudulent* means conduct that involves a misrepresentation of material fact made with intent to deceive or a state of mind so reckless respecting consequences as to be the equivalent of intent, where there is justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party deceived, inducing the party to act thereon, and where there is injury to the party deceived resulting from reliance on the misrepresentation. Fraud also may be established by a purposeful omission or failure to state a material fact, which omission or failure to state makes other statements misleading, and where the other elements of justifiable reliance and injury are established.


*Good moral character and reputation* means the possession of honesty and truthfulness, trustworthiness and reliability, and a professional commitment to the legal process and the administration of justice, as well as the condition of being regarded as possessing such qualities.


*Grievance* means a written submission from any source received by the OED Director that presents possible grounds for discipline of a specified practitioner.


*Informed consent* means the agreement by a person to a proposed course of conduct after the practitioner has communicated adequate information and explanation about the material risks of and reasonably available alternatives to the proposed course of conduct.


*Knowingly, known,* or *knows* means actual knowledge of the fact in question. A person's knowledge may be inferred from circumstances.


*Law-related services* means services that might reasonably be performed in conjunction with and in substance are related to the provision of legal services, and that are not prohibited as unauthorized practice of law when provided by a non-lawyer.


*OED* means the Office of Enrollment and Discipline.


*OED Director* means the Director of the Office of Enrollment and Discipline.


*OED Director's representatives* means attorneys within the USPTO Office of General Counsel who act as representatives of the OED Director.


*Office* means the United States Patent and Trademark Office.


*Partner* means a member of a partnership, a shareholder in a law firm organized as a professional corporation, or a member of an association authorized to practice law.


*Person* means an individual, a corporation, an association, a trust, a partnership, and any other organization or legal entity.




*Practitioner* means:


(1) An attorney or agent registered to practice before the Office in patent matters under § 11.6;


(2) An individual authorized under 5 U.S.C. 500(b), or otherwise as provided by § 11.14(a) through (c), to practice before the Office in trademark matters or other non-patent matters;


(3) An individual authorized to practice before the Office in patent matters under § 11.9(a) or (b); or


(4) An individual authorized to practice before the Office under § 11.16(d).






*Proceeding before the Office* means an application for patent, an application for reissue, a reexamination, a protest, a public use matter, an *inter partes* patent matter, correction of a patent, correction of inventorship, an application to register a trademark, an *inter partes* trademark matter, an appeal, a petition, and any other matter that is pending before the Office.


*Reasonable* or *reasonably* when used in relation to conduct by a practitioner means the conduct of a reasonably prudent and competent practitioner.


*Reasonable belief* or *reasonably believes* when used in reference to a practitioner means that the practitioner believes the matter in question and that the circumstances are such that the belief is reasonable.


*Reasonably should know* when used in reference to a practitioner means that a practitioner of reasonable prudence and competence would ascertain the matter in question.


*Registration* means registration to practice before the Office in patent proceedings.


*Roster* or *register* means a list of individuals who have been registered as a patent attorney, patent agent, or design patent practitioner.




*Screened* means the isolation of a practitioner from any participation in a matter through the timely imposition of procedures within a firm that are reasonably adequate under the circumstances to protect information that the isolated practitioner is obligated to protect under these USPTO Rules of Professional Conduct or other law.


*Serious crime* means:


(1) Any criminal offense classified as a felony under the laws of the United States, any state or any foreign country where the crime occurred, or any criminal offense punishable by death or imprisonment of more than one year; or


(2) Any crime a necessary element of which, as determined by the statutory or common law definition of such crime in the jurisdiction where the crime occurred, includes interference with the administration of justice, false swearing, misrepresentation, fraud, willful failure to file income tax returns, deceit, bribery, extortion, misappropriation, theft, or an attempt or a conspiracy or solicitation of another to commit a “serious crime.”


*Significant evidence of rehabilitation* means satisfactory evidence that is significantly more probable than not that there will be no recurrence in the foreseeable future of the practitioner's prior disability or addiction.


*State* means any of the 50 states of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth or territory of the United States of America.


*Substantial* when used in reference to degree or extent means a material matter of clear and weighty importance.


*Suspend* or *suspension* means a temporary debarring from practice before the Office or other jurisdiction.


*Tribunal* means the Office, a court, an arbitrator in a binding arbitration proceeding or a legislative body, administrative agency or other body acting in an adjudicative capacity. A legislative body, administrative agency or other body acts in an adjudicative capacity when a neutral official, after the presentation of evidence or legal argument by a party or parties, will render a binding legal judgment directly affecting a party's interests in a particular matter.


*United States* means the United States of America, and the territories and possessions the United States of America.


*USPTO Director* means the Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or an employee of the Office delegated authority to act for the Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office in matters arising under this part.


*Writing* or *written* means a tangible or electronic record of a communication or representation, including handwriting, typewriting, printing, photostating, photography, audio or video recording and electronic communications. A “signed” writing includes an electronic sound, symbol or process attached to or logically associated with a writing and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the writing.



---

[N] [69 FR 35452, June 24, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 47687, Aug. 14, 2008; 77 FR 45251, July 31, 2012; 78 FR 20197, Apr. 3, 2013; 81 FR 33596, May 27, 2016; 86 FR 28452, May 26, 2021; 86 FR 32640, June 22, 2021; 88 FR 78649, Nov. 16, 2023]










