# § 41.33   Applications for exemptive orders.

(a) Any board of trade designated as a contract market in security futures products pursuant to § 41.31 of this chapter may apply to the Commission for an exemption from any provision of the Act or regulations thereunder. Except as provided in sections 5f(b)(1) and 5f(b)(2) of the Act, the Commission shall have sole discretion to exempt a board of trade, conditionally or unconditionally, from any provision of the Act or regulations thereunder pursuant to this section. The Commission may issue such an exemptive order in response to an application only to the extent it finds, after review, that the issuance of an exemptive order is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors. 


(b) Each application for exemptive relief must comply with the requirements of this section. The Commission may, in its sole discretion, decline to entertain any application for an exemptive order under this section without explanation; *provided, however,* that the Commission shall notify the board of trade of such a decision in writing. 


(c) *Application requirements.* (1) Each application for an exemptive order made pursuant to this section must include: 


(i) The name and address of the board of trade requesting relief, and the name and telephone number of a person whom Commission staff may contact to obtain additional information regarding the request; 


(ii) A certification that the registration of the board of trade is not suspended pursuant to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission; 


(iii) The provision(s) of the Act or regulations thereunder from which the board of trade seeks relief and, if applicable, whether the board of trade is otherwise subject to similar provisions as a result of Securities and Exchange Commission jurisdiction; and 


(iv) The type of relief requested and the order sought; an explanation of the need for relief, including all material facts and circumstances giving rise to the request; and the extent to which such relief is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors. 


(2) Each application must be filed with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, D.C. headquarters, in either electronic or hard copy form, signed by an authorized representative of the board of trade, and labeled “Application for an Exemptive Order pursuant to Commission regulation 41.33.” 


(d) *Review Period.* (1) The Commission shall have 90 days upon receipt of an application for an exemptive order in which to make a determination as to whether such relief should be granted or denied. 


(2) The Commission may request additional information from the applicant at any time prior to the end of the review period. 


(3) The Commission may stay the review period if it determines that an application is materially incomplete; *provided, however,* that this paragraph (d) does not limit the Commission's authority, under paragraph (b) of this section, to decline to entertain an application. 


(e) Upon conclusion of the review period, the Commission shall issue an order granting or denying relief, or granting relief subject to conditions; *provided, however,* that the Commission's obligations under this paragraph shall not limit its authority, under paragraph (b) of this section, to decline to entertain an application. The Commission shall notify the board of trade in writing of its decision to grant or deny relief under this paragraph. 


(f) An application for an exemptive order may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time, without explanation, by filing with the Secretary of the Commission a written request for withdrawal, signed by an authorized representative of the board of trade. 


(g) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Division of Market Oversight, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, authority to make determinations on applications for exemptive orders pursuant to this section; *provided, however,* that: 


(1) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section; and 


(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight under paragraph (g) of this section. 



---

[N] [66 FR 44511, Aug. 23, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002]




