# § 1.1502-92   Ownership change of a loss group or a loss subgroup.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules for determining if there is an ownership change for purposes of section 382 with respect to a loss group or a loss subgroup. See § 1.1502-94 for special rules for determining if there is an ownership change with respect to a new loss member and § 1.1502-96(b) for special rules for determining if there is an ownership change of a subsidiary.


(b) *Determination of an ownership change*—(1) *Parent change method*—(i) *Loss group.* A loss group has an ownership change if the loss group's common parent has an ownership change under section 382 and the regulations thereunder. Solely for purposes of determining whether the common parent has an ownership change—


(A) The losses described in § 1.1502-91(c) are treated as net operating losses (or a net unrealized built-in loss) of the common parent; and


(B) The common parent determines the earliest day that its testing period can begin by reference to only the attributes that make the group a loss group under § 1.1502-91(c).


(ii) *Loss subgroup.* A loss subgroup has an ownership change if the loss subgroup parent has an ownership change under section 382 and the regulations thereunder. The principles of § 1.1502-95(b) (relating to ceasing to be a member of a consolidated group) apply in determining whether the loss subgroup parent has an ownership change. Solely for purposes of determining whether the loss subgroup parent has an ownership change—


(A) The losses described in § 1.1502-91(d) are treated as net operating losses (or a net unrealized built-in loss) of the loss subgroup parent;


(B) The day that the members of the loss subgroup become members of the group (or a loss subgroup) is treated as a testing date within the meaning of § 1.382-2(a)(4); and


(C) The loss subgroup parent determines the earliest day that its testing period can begin under § 1.382-2T(d)(3) by reference to only the attributes that make the members a loss subgroup under § 1.1502-91(d).


(iii) *Special rule if election regarding section 1504(a)(1) relationship is made*—(A) *Ownership change of deemed loss subgroup parent is an ownership change of loss subgroup.* If the common parent makes an election under § 1.1502-91(d)(4), each of the members in the loss subgroup is treated as the loss subgroup parent for purposes of determining whether the loss subgroup has an ownership change under section 382 and the regulations thereunder on or after the day the members become members of the group.


(B) *Exception.* Paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section does not apply to cause an ownership change of a loss subgroup if a deemed loss subgroup parent has an ownership change upon (or after) ceasing to be a member of the current group.


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (b): 


(3) *Special adjustments*—(i) *Common parent succeeded by a new common parent.* For purposes of determining if a loss group has an ownership change, if the common parent of a loss group is succeeded or acquired by a new common parent and the loss group remains in existence, the new common parent is treated as a continuation of the former common parent with appropriate adjustments to take into account shifts in ownership of the former common parent during the testing period (including shifts that occur incident to the common parent's becoming the former common parent). A new common parent may be a continuation of the former common parent even if, under § 1.1502-91(g)(2)(ii), the new common parent is not included in determining whether the group has a net unrealized built-in loss.


(ii) *Newly created loss subgroup parent.* For purposes of determining if a loss subgroup has an ownership change, if the member that is the loss subgroup parent has not been the loss subgroup parent for at least 3 years as of a testing date, appropriate adjustments must be made to take into account owner shifts of members of the loss subgroup so that the structure of the loss subgroup does not have the effect of avoiding an ownership change under section 382. (See paragraph (b)(3)(iii), *Example 3* of this section.)


(iii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (b)(3): 


(A) *Example 1.*—*New common parent acquires old common parent.* (*1*) A, who owns all the L stock, sells 30 percent of the L stock to B on August 26, Year 1. L owns all the L1 stock. The L group has a consolidated net operating loss arising in Year 1 that is carried over to Year 3. On July 16, Year 2, A and B transfer their L stock to a newly created holding company, HC, in exchange for 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of the HC stock. HC, L, and L1 thereafter file consolidated returns. Under the principles of § 1.1502-75(d), the L loss group is treated as remaining in existence, with HC taking the place of L as the new common parent of the loss group. The following is a graphic illustration of these facts:


(*2*) On November 11, Year 3, A sells 25 percent of the HC stock to B. For purposes of determining if the L loss group has an ownership change under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section on November 11, Year 3, HC is treated as a continuation of L under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section because it acquired L and became the common parent without terminating the L loss group. Accordingly, HC's testing period commences on January 1, Year 1, the first day of the taxable year of the L loss group in which the consolidated net operating loss that is carried over to Year 3 arose (see § 1.382-2T(d)(3)(i)). Immediately after the close of November 11, Year 3, B's percentage ownership interest in the common parent of the loss group (HC) has increased by 55 percentage points over its lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (zero percent). Accordingly, HC and the L loss group have an ownership change on that day.


(B) *Example 2.*—*New common parent in case in which common parent ceases to exist.* (*1*) A, B, and C each own one-third of the L stock. L owns all the L1 stock. The L group has a consolidated net operating loss arising in Year 2 that is carried over to Year 3. On November 22, Year 3, L is merged into P, a corporation owned by D, and L1 thereafter files consolidated returns with P. A, B, and C, as a result of owning stock of L, own 90 percent of P's stock after the merger. D owns the remaining 10 percent of P's stock. The merger of L into P qualifies as a reverse acquisition of the L group under § 1.1502-75(d)(3)(i), and the L loss group is treated as remaining in existence, with P taking the place of L as the new common parent of the L group. The following is a graphic illustration of these facts: 


(*2*) For purposes of determining if the L loss group has an ownership change on November 22, Year 3, the day of the merger, P is treated as a continuation of L so that the testing period for P begins on January 1, Year 2, the first day of the taxable year of the L loss group in which the consolidated net operating loss that is carried over to Year 3 arose. Immediately after the close of November 22, Year 3, D is the only 5-percent shareholder that has increased its ownership interest in P during the testing period (from zero to 10 percentage points).


(*3*) The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section (*Example 2*), except that A has held 23
1/3 shares (23
1/3 percent) of L's stock for five years, and A purchased an additional 10 shares of L stock from E two years before the merger. Immediately after the close of the day of the merger (a testing date), A's ownership interest in P, the common parent of the L loss group, has increased by 6
2/3 percentage points over A's lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (23
1/3 percent to 30 percent).


(*4*) The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section (*Example 2*), except that P has a net operating loss arising in Year 1 that is carried to the first consolidated return year ending after the day of the merger. Solely for purposes of determining whether the L loss group has an ownership change under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the testing period for P commences on January 1, Year 2. P does not determine the earliest day for its testing period by reference to its net operating loss carryover from Year 1, which §§ 1.1502-1(f)(3) and 1.1502-75(d)(3)(i) treat as arising in a SRLY. *See* § 1.1502-94 to determine the application of section 382 with respect to P's net operating loss carryover.


(C) *Example 3.*—*Newly acquired loss subgroup parent.* (*1*) P owns all the L stock and L owns all the L1 stock. The P group has a consolidated net operating loss arising in Year 1 that is carried over to Year 3. On January 19, Year 2, L issues a 20 percent stock interest to B. On February 5, Year 3, P contributes its L stock to a newly formed subsidiary, HC, in exchange for all the HC stock, and distributes the HC stock to its sole shareholder A. HC, L, and L1 thereafter file consolidated returns. A portion of the P group's Year 1 consolidated net operating loss is apportioned to L and L1 under § 1.1502-21(b) and is carried over to the HC group's year ending after February 5, Year 3. HC, L, and L1 compose a loss subgroup within the meaning of § 1.1502-91(d) with respect to the net operating loss carryovers from Year 1. The following is a graphic illustration of these facts:


(*2*) February 5, Year 3, is a testing date for HC as the loss subgroup parent with respect to the net operating loss carryovers of L and L1 from Year 1. See paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. For purposes of determining whether HC has an ownership change on the testing date, appropriate adjustments must be made with respect to the changes in the percentage ownership of the stock of HC because HC was not the loss subgroup parent for at least 3 years prior to the day on which it became a member of the HC loss subgroup (a testing date). The appropriate adjustments include adjustments so that HC succeeds to the owner shifts of other members of the former group. Thus, HC succeeds to the owner shift of L that resulted from the sale of the 20 percent interest to B in determining whether the HC loss subgroup has an ownership change on February 5, Year 3, and on any subsequent testing date that includes January 19, Year 2.




(4) *End of separate tracking of certain losses.* If § 1.1502-96(a) (relating to the end of separate tracking of attributes) applies to a loss subgroup, then, while one or more members that were included in the loss subgroup remain members of the consolidated group, there is an ownership change with respect to their attributes described in § 1.1502-96(a)(2) only if the consolidated group is a loss group and has an ownership change under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (or such a member has an ownership change under § 1.1502-96(b) (relating to ownership changes of subsidiaries)). If, however, the loss subgroup has had an ownership change before § 1.1502-96(a) applies, see § 1.1502-96(c) for the continuing application of the subgroup's section 382 limitation with respect to its pre-change subgroup attributes.


(c) *Supplemental rules for determining ownership change*—


(1) *Scope.* This paragraph (c) contains a supplemental rule for determining whether there is an ownership change of a loss group (or loss subgroup). It applies in addition to, and not instead of, the rules of paragraph (b) of this section. Thus, for example, if the common parent of the loss group has an ownership change under paragraph (b) of this section, the loss group has an ownership change even if, by applying this paragraph (c), the common parent would not have an ownership change. This paragraph (c) does not apply in determining an ownership change of a loss subgroup for which an election under § 1.1502-91(d)(4) is made.


(2) *Cause for applying supplemental rule.* This paragraph (c) applies to a loss group (or loss subgroup) if—


(i) Any 5-percent shareholder of the common parent (or loss subgroup parent) increases its percentage ownership interest in the stock of both—


(A) A subsidiary of the loss group (or loss subgroup) other than by a direct or indirect acquisition of stock of the common parent (or loss subgroup parent); and


(B) The common parent (or loss subgroup parent);


(ii) Those increases occur within a 3 year period ending on any day of a consolidated return year or, if shorter, the period beginning on the first day following the most recent ownership change of the loss group (or loss subgroup); and


(iii) Either—


(A) The common parent (or loss subgroup parent) has actual knowledge of the increase in the 5-percent shareholder's ownership interest in the stock of the subsidiary (or has actual knowledge of the plan or arrangement described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section) before the date that the group's income tax return is filed for the taxable year that includes the date of that increase; or


(B) At any time during the period described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the 5-percent shareholder of the common parent is also a 5-percent shareholder of the subsidiary (determined without regard to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section) whose percentage increase in the ownership of the stock of the subsidiary would be taken into account in determining if the subsidiary has an ownership change (determined as if the subsidiary was a loss corporation and applying the principles of § 1.382-2T(k), including the principles relating to duty to inquire).


(3) *Operating rules.* Solely for purposes of this paragraph (c)—


(i) A 5-percent shareholder of the common parent (or loss subgroup parent) is treated as increasing its ownership interest in the stock of a subsidiary to the extent, if any, that another person or persons increases its percentage ownership interest in the stock of a subsidiary pursuant to a plan or arrangement under which the 5-percent shareholder increases its percentage ownership interest in the common parent (or loss subgroup parent);


(ii) The rules in section 382(l)(3) and §§ 1.382-2T(h) and 1.382-4(d) (relating to constructive ownership) apply with respect to the stock of the subsidiary by treating such stock as stock of a loss corporation; and


(iii) In the case of a loss subgroup, a subsidiary includes any member of the loss subgroup other than the loss subgroup parent. (A loss subgroup parent is, however, a subsidiary of the loss group of which it is a member.)


(4) *Supplemental ownership change rules.* The determination whether the common parent (or loss subgroup parent) has an ownership change is made by applying paragraph (b)(1) of this section as modified by the following additional rules:


(i) *Additional testing dates for the common parent (or loss subgroup parent).* A testing date for the common parent (or loss subgroup parent) also includes—


(A) Each day on which there is an increase in the percentage ownership of stock of a subsidiary as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and


(B) The first day of the first consolidated return year for which the group is a loss group (or the members compose a loss subgroup).


(ii) *Treatment of subsidiary stock as stock of the common parent (or loss subgroup parent).* The common parent (or loss subgroup parent) is treated as though it had issued to the person acquiring (or deemed to acquire) the subsidiary stock an amount of its own stock (by value) that equals the value of the subsidiary stock represented by the percentage increase in that person's ownership of the subsidiary (determined on a separate entity basis). Similar principles apply if the increase in percentage ownership interest is effected by a redemption or similar transaction.


(iii) *Different testing periods.* Stock treated as issued under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section on a testing date is not treated as so issued for purposes of applying the ownership change rules of this paragraph (c) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section in a testing period that does not include that testing date.


(iv) *Disaffiliation of a subsidiary.* If a deemed issuance of stock under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section would not cause the loss group (or loss subgroup) to have an ownership change before the day (if any) on which the subsidiary ceases to be a member of the loss group (or subgroup), then paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall not apply.


(v) *Subsidiary stock acquired first.* If an increase of subsidiary stock described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section occurs before the date that the 5-percent shareholder increases its percentage ownership interest in the stock of the common parent (or loss subgroup parent), then the deemed issuance of stock is treated as occurring on that later date, but in an amount equal to the value of the subsidiary stock on the date it was acquired.


(vi) *Anti-duplication rule.* If two or more 5-percent shareholders are treated as increasing their percentage ownership interests pursuant to the same plan or arrangement described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, appropriate adjustments must be made so that the amount of stock treated as issued is not taken into account more than once.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (c): 


(d) *Testing period following ownership change under this section.* If a loss group (or a loss subgroup) has had an ownership change under this section, the testing period for determining a subsequent ownership change with respect to pre-change consolidated attributes (or pre-change subgroup attributes) begins no earlier than the first day following the loss group's (or loss subgroup's) most recent change date.


(e) *Information statements*—(1) *Common parent of a loss group.* The common parent of a loss group must file the information statement required by § 1.382-11(a) for a consolidated return year because of any owner shift, equity structure shift, or other transaction described in § 1.382-2T(a)(2)(i)—


(i) With respect to the common parent and with respect to any subsidiary stock subject to paragraph (c) of this section; and


(ii) With respect to an ownership change described in § 1.1502-96(b) (relating to ownership changes of subsidiaries).


(2) *Abbreviated statement with respect to loss subgroups.* The common parent of a consolidated group that has a loss subgroup during a consolidated return year must file the information statement required by § 1.382-11(a) because of any owner shift, equity structure shift, or other transaction described in § 1.382-2T(a)(2)(i) with respect to the loss subgroup parent and with respect to any subsidiary stock subject to paragraph (c) of this section. Instead of filing a separate statement for each loss subgroup parent, the common parent (which is treated as a loss corporation) may file the single statement described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In addition to the information concerning stock ownership of the common parent, the single statement must identify each loss subgroup parent and state which loss subgroups, if any, have had ownership changes during the consolidated return year. The loss subgroup parent is, however, still required to maintain the records necessary to determine if the loss subgroup has an ownership change. This paragraph (e)(2) applies with respect to the attributes of a loss subgroup until, under § 1.1502-96(a), the attributes are no longer treated as described in § 1.1502-91(d) (relating to the definition of loss subgroup). After that time, the information statement described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be filed with respect to those attributes.



---

[N] [T.D. 8824, 64 FR 36137, July 2, 1999, as amended by T.D. 9264, 71 FR 30608, May 30, 2006; T.D. 9329, 72 FR 32807, June 14, 2007; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106877, Dec. 30, 2024]




