# ยง 870.705   Amount and election of Option B and Option C.

(a) The number of multiples of Option B and Option C coverage an annuitant or compensationer can continue is the highest number of multiples in force during the applicable period of service required to continue Option B and Option C.


(b)(1)(i) At the time an employee retires or becomes insured as a compensationer, he or she must elect the number of allowable multiples he or she wishes to continue during retirement or while receiving compensation.


(ii) An employee who elects to continue fewer multiples than the number for which he or she is eligible is considered to have cancelled the multiples that are not continued.


(iii) An employee separating for retirement and an employee becoming insured as a compensationer on or after April 24, 1999, must choose the level of post-age-65 reduction he or she wants. There are two choices: Full Reduction and No Reduction. The election may be made only by the employee and must be made in the manner that OPM designates. The employee may make different elections for Option B and for Option C. He or she may choose Full Reduction for some multiples of an Option and No Reduction for other multiples of the same Option. Failure to make an election for Option B or for Option C will be considered to be an election of Full Reduction for all multiples of that Option.


(iv) For purposes of this part, a judge who retires under one of the provisions listed in ยง 870.703(e)(1) is considered to be an employee after retirement. The insurance of such a judge does not reduce after age 65. *Exception:* If the judge is eligible for compensation and chooses to receive compensation instead of annuity, the post-65 reductions and elections apply.


(2)(i) Prior to reaching age 65, an annuitant or compensationer can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction at any time. *Exception:* If the individual has assigned his or her insurance as provided in subpart I of this part, only the assignee can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction for the Option B coverage.


(3)(i) After reaching age 65, an annuitant or compensationer can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction at any time. *Exception:* If the individual has assigned his or her insurance as provided in subpart I of this part, only the assignee can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction for the Option B coverage. If an individual age 65 or over changes to Full Reduction, the amount of insurance in force is computed as if he or she had elected Full Reduction initially. There is no refund of premiums.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, after reaching age 65, an annuitant or compensationer cannot change from Full Reduction to No Reduction.


(4)(i) Shortly before an annuitant or compensationer's 65th birthday, an annuitant's retirement system will send a reminder about the post-age-65 reduction election he/she made and will offer the individual a chance to change the initial election made at the time of retirement.


(ii) If the individual is already 65 or older at the time of retirement or becoming insured as a compensationer, the retirement system will process the retirement using the current Continuation of Life Insurance Coverage (SF 2818) on file, send the reminder, and give the opportunity to change the election as soon as the retirement processing or compensation transfer is complete.


(iii) If the individual assigned his/her insurance as provided in subpart I of this part, and if the employee elected No Reduction for Option B coverage at the time of retirement or becoming insured as a compensationer, the retirement system will send the reminder notice for Option B coverage to the assignee.


(iv) An annuitant or compensationer who wishes to change his/her reduction election must return the notice by the end of the month following the month in which the individual turns 65, or if already over age 65, by the end of the 4th month after the date of the letter. An annuitant or compensationer who does not return the election notice will keep his/her initial election or the default election, as applicable.


(c)(1) For each multiple of Option B and/or Option C for which an individual elects Full Reduction, the coverage reduces by 2 percent of the original amount each month. This reduction starts at the beginning of the 2nd month after the date the insurance would otherwise have stopped or the beginning of the 2nd month after the insured's 65th birthday, whichever is later. At 12:00 noon on the day before the 50th reduction, the insurance stops, with no extension of coverage or conversion right.


(2) For each multiple of Option B and/or Option C for which an individual elects No Reduction, the coverage in force does not reduce. After age 65 the annuitant or compensationer continues to pay premiums appropriate to his or her age.


(d)(1) An employee who was already retired or insured as a compensationer on April 24, 1999, and who had Option B, was given an opportunity to make an election for Option B.


(i) Annuitants and compensationers who were under age 65 were notified of the option to elect No Reduction. The retirement system will send these individuals an actual election notice before their 65th birthday, as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(ii) Each such annuitant or compensationer who was age 65 or older on April 24, 1999, and who still had some Option B coverage remaining, was given the opportunity to stop further reductions. The individual had until October 24, 1999, to make the No Reduction election. The amount of Option B coverage retained was the amount in effect on April 24, 1999. Each annuitant or compensationer who elected No Reduction was required to pay premiums retroactive to April 24, 1999.


(2) An employee who was already retired or insured as a compensationer on April 24, 1999, could not elect No Reduction for Option C.



---

[N] [75 FR 60583, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 26998, May 5, 2016]




