# ยง 63.11100   What definitions apply to this subpart?

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in subparts A, K, Ka, Kb, and XXa of part 60 of this chapter, or in subparts A, R, and WW of this part. All terms defined in both subpart A of part 60 of this chapter and subparts A, R, and WW of this part shall have the meaning given in subparts A, R, and WW of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.





s in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative (e.g., a State that has been delegated the authority to implement the provisions of this subpart).


*Bulk gasoline plant* means any gasoline storage and distribution facility that receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, or cargo tank, and subsequently loads the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to gasoline dispensing facilities, and has a gasoline throughput of less than 20,000 gallons per day. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law, and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.


*Bulk gasoline terminal* means:


(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, any gasoline storage and distribution facility that receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, or cargo tank and has a gasoline throughput of 20,000 gallons per day or greater. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.


(2) On or after May 8, 2027, any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship, barge, or cargo tank and subsequently loads all or a portion of the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to bulk gasoline plants or gasoline dispensing facilities and has a gasoline throughput of 20,000 gallons per day (75,700 liters per day) or greater. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput for the facility as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.




*Equipment* means each valve, pump, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, and flange or other connector in the gasoline liquid transfer and vapor collection systems. This definition also includes the entire vapor processing system except the exhaust port(s) or stack(s).




*Flare* means a thermal combustion device using an open or shrouded flame (without full enclosure) such that the pollutants are not emitted through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.


*Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 4.0 pounds per square inch (27.6 kilopascals) or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.




*Gasoline cargo tank* means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.


*Gasoline storage tank or vessel* means each tank, vessel, reservoir, or container used for the storage of gasoline, but does not include:


(1) Frames, housing, auxiliary supports, or other components that are not directly involved in the containment of gasoline or gasoline vapors;


(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs;


(3) Oil/water separators and sumps, including butane blending sample recovery tanks, used to collect drained material such that it can be pumped to storage or back into a process; or


(4) Tanks or vessels permanently attached to mobile sources such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.


*In gasoline service* means that a piece of equipment is used in a system that transfers gasoline or gasoline vapors.


*Monthly* means once per calendar month at regular intervals of no less than 28 days and no more than 35 days.


*Operating parameter value* means a value for an operating or emission parameter of the vapor processing system (*e.g.,* temperature) which, if maintained continuously by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator has complied with the applicable emission standard. The operating parameter value is determined using the procedures specified in ยง 63.11092(b) and (e).


*Pipeline breakout station* means:


(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline or to other facilities.


(2) On or after May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline to other facilities. *Pipeline breakout stations* do not have loading racks where gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks. If any gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks, the facility is a bulk gasoline terminal for the purposes of this subpart provided the facility-wide gasoline throughput (including pipeline throughput) exceeds the limits specified for bulk gasoline terminals.






*Pipeline pumping station* means a facility along a pipeline containing pumps to maintain the desired pressure and flow of product through the pipeline, and not containing gasoline loading racks or gasoline storage tanks other than surge control tanks.




*Submerged filling* means, for the purposes of this subpart, the filling of a gasoline cargo tank or a stationary storage tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the applicable distance specified in ยง 63.11086(a) from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline cargo tanks or storage tanks is included in this definition.


*Surge control tank or vessel* means, for the purposes of this subpart, those tanks or vessels used only for controlling pressure in a pipeline system during surges or other variations from normal operations.




*Thermal oxidation system* means an enclosed combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize hazardous air pollutants. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat air pollutants to combustion temperatures. *Thermal oxidation systems* emit pollutants through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.


*Vapor collection-equipped gasoline cargo tank* means a gasoline cargo tank that is outfitted with the equipment necessary to transfer vapors, displaced during the loading of gasoline into the cargo tank, to a vapor processor system.


*Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank* means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in ยง 63.11092(f).



---

[N] [73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4178, Jan. 24, 2011; 89 FR 39383, May 8, 2024]







