# ยง 123.14   Import certificate/delivery verification procedure.

(a) The Import Certificate/Delivery Verification Procedure is designed to assure that a commodity imported into the territory of those countries participating in IC/DV procedures will not be diverted, transshipped, or reexported to another destination except in accordance with export control regulations of the importing country. 


(b) *Exports.* The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require the IC/DV procedure on proposed exports of defense articles to non-government entities in those countries participating in IC/DV procedures. In such cases, U.S. exporters must submit both an export license application (the completed Form DSP-5) and the original Import Certificate, which must be provided and authenticated by the government of the importing country. This document verifies that the foreign importer complied with the import regulations of the government of the importing country and that the importer declared the intention not to divert, transship or reexport the material described therein without the prior approval of that government. After delivery of the commodities to the foreign consignee, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may also require U.S. exporters to furnish Delivery Verification documentation from the government of the importing country. This documentation verifies that the delivery was in accordance with the terms of the approved export license. Both the Import Certificate and the Delivery Verification must be furnished to the U.S. exporter by the foreign importer.


(c) *Triangular transactions.* When a transaction involves three or more countries that have adopted the IC/DV procedure, the governments of these countries may stamp a triangular symbol on the Import Certificate. This symbol is usually placed on the Import Certificate when the applicant for the Import Certificate (the importer) states either (1) that there is uncertainty whether the items covered by the Import Certificate will be imported into the country issuing the Import Certificate; (2) that he or she knows that the items will not be imported into the country issuing the Import Certificate; or (3) that, if the items are to be imported into the country issuing the Import Certificate, they will subsequently be reexported to another destination. All parties, including the ultimate consignee in the country of ultimate destination, must be shown on the completed Import Certificate. 



---

[N] [58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006]




