# § 413.7   Application submission.

(a) An applicant must make an application in writing and in English. The applicant must file the application with the Federal Aviation Administration either by paper, by use of physical electronic storage, or by email in the following manner:


(1) For applications submitted on paper, an applicant must send two copies of the application to the Federal Aviation Administration, Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation, Room 331, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Attention: Application Review.


(2) For an application submitted by use of physical electronic storage, the applicant must either mail the application to the address specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or hand-deliver the application to an authorized FAA representative. The application and the physical electronic storage containing the application must also satisfy all of the following criteria:


(i) The application must include a cover letter that is printed on paper and signed by the person who signed the application or by an authorized representative of the applicant;


(ii) The cover letter must identify each document that is included on the physical electronic storage; and


(iii) The physical electronic storage must be in a format such that its contents cannot be altered.


(3) For an application submitted by email, an applicant must send the application as an email attachment, or as a link to a secure server, to *ASTApplications@faa.gov.* The application and the email to which the application is attached or linked must also satisfy the following criteria:


(i) The email to which the application is attached or linked must be sent from an email address controlled by the person who signed the application or by an authorized representative of the applicant;


(ii) The email must identify each document that is included as an attachment or that is stored on a secure server; and


(iii) The electronic files must be date-stamped and have version control documentation.


(b) *Administrative information.* An application must identify the following:


(1) The name and address of the applicant;


(2) The name, address, and telephone number of any person to whom inquiries and correspondence should be directed; and


(3) The type of license or permit for which the applicant is applying.


(c) *Signature and certification of accuracy.* An application must be legibly signed, dated, and certified as true, complete, and accurate by one of the following:


(1) For a corporation: An officer or other individual authorized to act for the corporation in licensing or permitting matters.


(2) *For a partnership or a sole proprietorship:* A general partner or proprietor, respectively.


(3) For a joint venture, association, or other entity: An officer or other individual authorized to act for the joint venture, association, or other entity in licensing or permitting matters.


(d) *Safety approval.* If the applicant proposes to include a safety element for which the FAA issued a safety approval under part 414 in the proposed license activity, the applicant must—


(1) Identify the safety approval in the application and explain the proposed use of the approved safety element.


(2) Show that the proposed use of the approved safety element is consistent with the designated scope specified in the safety approval.


(3) Certify that the safety element will be used according to any terms and conditions of the issued safety approval.


(e) *Measurement system consistency.* For each analysis, an applicant must employ a consistent measurements system, whether English or metric, in its application and licensing information.



---

[N] [Amdt. 413-03, 64 FR 19614, Apr. 21, 1999, as amended by Amdt. 413-6, 71 FR 46852, Aug. 15, 2006; Amdt. 413-8, 71 FR 51972, Aug. 31, 2006; Amdt. 413-7, 71 FR 56005, Sept. 26, 2006; Amdt. 413-9, 72 FR 17018, Apr. 6, 2007; Amdt. 413-11, 80 FR 30151, May 27, 2015; Doc. No. FAA-2019-0229, Amdt. 413-12, 85 FR 79711, Dec. 10, 2020]




