# § 63.8252   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e) and (f) and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.


(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your affected source before December 19, 2003, you must submit an Initial Notification no later than 120 calendar days after December 19, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.




(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you start up your new or reconstructed mercury recovery facility on or after December 19, 2003, you must submit your initial notification not later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart.




(d) For each performance test that you are required to conduct for by-product hydrogen streams and end box ventilation system vents and for mercury thermal recovery unit vents, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).






(e) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each initial compliance demonstration that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration. The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the items in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section:




(i) If you choose not to implement a cell room monitoring program according to § 63.8192(g), a certification that you are operating according to the applicable work practice standards for mercury emissions in § 63.8192(a) through (d) and your floor-level mercury vapor measurement plan required by § 63.8192(d).






(ii) The washdown plan, and you must certify that you are operating according to the washdown plan specified in § 63.8192(f).


(iii) The mass of virgin mercury added to cells for the 5 years preceding the compliance date.


(iv) If you choose to implement a cell room monitoring program according to § 63.8192(g), your cell room monitoring plan.


(2) For each initial compliance demonstration that does include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2). The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information in § 63.9(h)(2)(ii)(A) through (G). The site-specific monitoring plan required in § 63.8242(a)(3) must also be submitted.




(f) You must submit a Revised Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the date 30 days after the compliance date in § 63.8186(a)(2) containing the items in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section:


(1) A certification that you are operating according to the work practice standards for mercury emissions in § 63.8192(a) through (c) and (e) through (g).


(2) Your cell room monitoring plan, including your initial action level determined in accordance with § 63.8192(g)(2), and a certification that you are operating according to the continuous cell room monitoring program under § 63.8192(g).


(3) Your washdown plan, and a certification that you are operating according to your washdown plan under § 63.8192(e).


(4) Records of the mass of virgin mercury added to cells for every year since 2001.


(5) A certification that you have installed chlorine sensors in accordance with § 63.8192(h)(2) and that you are operating according to the work practice standards for chlorine emissions in § 63.8192(h).


(g) You must submit all subsequent Notification of Compliance Status reports and Revised Notification of Compliance Status reports in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*).


(h) You must submit a notification of compliance with the prohibition of mercury emissions as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The notification must include the information specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) A certification that the requirement of § 63.8190(a)(2)(ii) has been met.


(ii) A brief explanation of how the requirement of § 63.8190(a)(2)(ii) has been met.


(2) You must submit this notification before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the date when compliance with § 63.8190(a)(2)(ii) is attained.







---

[N] [68 FR 70928, Dec. 19, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 73914, Nov. 19, 2020, 85 FR 84262, Dec. 28, 2020; 87 FR 27021, May 6, 2022]






