# ยง 69.11   Determining the measurement system or systems for a particular vessel.

(a) *Convention Measurement System (subpart B of this part).* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, this Formal Measurement System applies to any vessel for which the application of an international agreement or other law of the United States to the vessel depends on the vessel's tonnage.


(2) This system does not apply to the following vessels:


(i) A vessel of war, unless the government of the country to which the vessel belongs elects to measure the vessel under this part.


(ii) A vessel of less than 79 feet in overall length.


(iii) A U.S. flag vessel, or one of Canadian registry or nationality, or operated under the authority of Canada, and that is operating only on the Great Lakes, unless the vessel owner requests.


(iv) A U.S. flag vessel (except a vessel that engages on a foreign voyage), the keel of which was laid or was at a similar stage of construction before January 1, 1986, unless the vessel owner requests or unless the vessel subsequently undergoes a change that the Commandant finds substantially affects the gross tonnage.


(v) A non-self-propelled U.S. flag vessel (except a non-self-propelled vessel that engages on a foreign voyage), unless the vessel owner requests the application.


(b) *Standard Regulatory Measurement System (subpart C of this part).* This Formal Measurement System applies to a vessel not measured under the Convention Measurement System for which the application of an international agreement or other law of the United States to the vessel depends on the vessel's tonnage. Upon request of the vessel owner, this system also applies to a U.S. flag vessel that is also measured under the Convention Measurement System.


(c) *Dual Regulatory Measurement System (subpart D of this part).* This Formal Measurement System may be applied, at the vessel owner's option, instead of the Standard Regulatory Measurement System.


(d) *Simplified Regulatory Measurement System (subpart E of this part).* This system may be applied, at the vessel owner's option, instead of the Standard Regulatory Measurement System to the following vessels:


(1) A vessel that is under 79 feet in overall length.


(2) A vessel of any length that is non-self-propelled.


(3) A vessel of any length that is operated only for pleasure.



---

[N] [USCG-2011-0522, 81 FR 18719, Mar. 31, 2016]




