# § 29.1557   Miscellaneous markings and placards.

(a) *Baggage and cargo compartments, and ballast location.* Each baggage and cargo compartment, and each ballast location must have a placard stating any limitations on contents, including weight, that are necessary under the loading requirements. 


(b) *Seats.* If the maximum allowable weight to be carried in a seat is less than 170 pounds, a placard stating the lesser weight must be permanently attached to the seat structure. 


(c) *Fuel and oil filler openings.* The following apply: 


(1) Fuel filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover with—


(i) The word “fuel”; 


(ii) For reciprocating engine powered rotorcraft, the minimum fuel grade; 


(iii) For turbine-engine-powered rotorcraft, the permissible fuel designations, except that if impractical, this information may be included in the rotorcraft flight manual, and the fuel filler may be marked with an appropriate reference to the flight manual; and 


(iv) For pressure fueling systems, the maximum permissible fueling supply pressure and the maximum permissible defueling pressure. 


(2) Oil filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover with the word “oil”. 


(d) *Emergency exit placards.* Each placard and operating control for each emergency exit must differ in color from the surrounding fuselage surface as prescribed in § 29.811(f)(2). A placard must be near each emergency exit control and must clearly indicate the location of that exit and its method of operation. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-3, 33 FR 971, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55474, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 29-26, 53 FR 34220, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 29-58, 87 FR 75711, Dec. 9, 2022] 




