# § 334.275   North and Southwest Branch, Back River, Hampton, U.S. Air Force Base, Langley, Va.; restricted area.

(a) *The area.* Beginning at a point on the island at the entrance to Tide Mills Creek in the Southwest Branch of the Back River at latitude 37°03′50″ N, longitude 076°22′00″ W, thence along the shore of Langley Air Force Base, 35 yards off the ordinary mean high water (MHW) mark, to a point in the Northwest Branch of the Back River at latitude 37°06′40″ N, longitude 076°22′55″ W.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) No persons or vessels, recreational or commercial, may enter this restricted area without the permission of the Commanding Officer, Langley Air Force Base.


(2) The Commanding Officer shall not prevent persons from fulfilling their legal obligation to the Commonwealth of Virginia with regard to oyster planting ground leases that lie within the restricted area. The Commanding Officer may, at his/her discretion, require those persons and vessels working those leases to register with the Langley Air Force Base Security Officer on an annual basis. Failure to comply with this request may result in denial to access the oyster grounds until such time as the request has been complied with.


(3) Persons or vessels contracted with or utilized by the Commonwealth of Virginia to work the oyster grounds shall give verbal notification to the base Security Office prior to entering the restricted area.


(4) City, State and Federal law enforcement vessels may enter the restricted area at any time they deem necessary for the enforcement of their respective laws.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer of the Langley Air Force Base and such agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [58 FR 47788, Sept. 10, 1993]




