# § 165.931   Safety Zone, Chicago Harbor, Navy Pier Southeast, Chicago, IL.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: The waters of Lake Michigan within Chicago Harbor bounded by coordinates beginning at 41°53′23.3″ N, 087°36′04.5″ W; then south to 41°53′11.8″ N, 087°36′04.1″ W; then west to 41°53′12.1″ N, 087°35′40.5″ W; then north to 41°53′23.6″ N, 087°35′40.07″ W; then east back to the point of origin (NAD 83).


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


(1) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard Commissioned, warrant, or petty officer designated by the Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan to monitor a safety zone, permit entry into the zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within the zone, and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port.


(2) *Public vessel* means vessels owned, chartered, or operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR 165.23, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan, or his designated representative.


(2) This safety zone is closed to all vessel traffic, excepted as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan or his designated representative. All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port or his designated representative. Upon being hailed by the U.S. Coast Guard by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.


(3) All vessels must obtain permission from the Captain of the Port or his designated representative to enter, move within, or exit the safety zone established in this section when this safety zone is enforced. Vessels and persons granted permission to enter the safety zone must obey all lawful orders or directions of the Captain of the Port or a designated representative.


(d) *Notice of enforcement or suspension of enforcement.* The safety zone established by this section will be enforced only upon notice of the Captain of the Port. The Captain of the Port will cause notice of enforcement of the safety zone established by this section to be made by all appropriate means to the affected segments of the public including publication in the _Federal Register_ as practicable, in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a). Such means of notification may also include, but are not limited to Broadcast Notice to Mariners or Local Notice to Mariners.


(e) *Exemption.* Public vessels, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, are exempt from the requirements in this section.


(f) *Waiver.* For any vessel, the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or his designated representative may waive any of the requirements of this section, upon finding that operational conditions or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purposes of public or environmental safety.



---

[N] [USCG-2013-0320, 78 FR 42867, July 18, 2013, as amended by USCG-2018-0713, 84 FR 7292, Mar. 4, 2019; 84 FR 16214, Apr. 18, 2019]




