# ยง 870.52   Application for exemption of State-regulated garnishments.

(a) An application for the exemption of garnishments issued under the laws of a State may be made in duplicate by a duly authorized representative of the State. The application shall be filed with the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.


(b) Any application for exemption must be accompanied by two copies of all the provisions of the State laws relating to the garnishment of earnings, certified to be true and complete copies by the Attorney General of the State. In addition, the application must be accompanied by a statement, in duplicate, signed by the Attorney General of the State, showing how the laws of the State satisfy the policy expressed in ยง 870.51(a) and setting forth any other matters which the Attorney General may wish to state concerning the application.


(c) Notice of the filing of an application for exemption shall be published in the _Federal Register._ Copies of the application shall be available for public inspection and copying during business hours at the national office of the Wage and Hour Division and in the regional office of the Wage and Hour Divison in which the particular State is located. Interested persons shall be afforded an opportunity to submit written comments concerning the application of the State within a period of time to be specified in the notice.



---

[N] [35 FR 8226, May 26, 1970, as amended at 35 FR 14315, Sept. 11, 1970]




