# § 420.71   Specialized definitions.

(a) The term *hot forming* means those steel operations in which solidified, heated steel is shaped by rolls.


(b) The term *primary mill* means those steel hot forming operations that reduce ingots to blooms or slabs by passing the ingots between rotating steel rolls. The first hot forming operation performed on solidified steel after it is removed from the ingot molds is carried out on a “primary mill”.


(c) The term *section mill* means those steel hot forming operations that produce a variety of finished and semi-finished steel products other than the products of those mills specified below in paragraphs (d), (e), (g), and (h) of this section.


(d) The term *flat mill* means those steel hot forming operations that reduce heated slabs to plates, strip and sheet, or skelp.


(e) The term *pipe and tube mill* means those steel hot forming operations that produce butt welded or seamless tubular steel products.


(f) The term *scarfing* means those steel surface conditioning operations in which flames generated by the combustion of oxygen and fuel are used to remove surface metal imperfections from slabs, billets, or blooms.


(g) The term *plate mill* means those steel hot forming operations that produce flat hot-rolled products which are (1) between 8 and 48 inches wide and over 0.23 inches thick; or (2) greater than 48 inches wide and over 0.18 inches thick.


(h) The term *hot strip and sheet mill* means those steel hot forming operations that produce flat hot-rolled products other than plates.


(i) The term *specialty steel* means those steel products containing alloying elements which are added to enhance the properties of the steel product when individual alloying elements (e.g., aluminum, chromium, cobalt, columbium, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, tungsten, vanadium, zirconium) exceed 3% or the total of all alloying elements exceed 5%.


(j) The term *carbon steel* means those steel products other than specialty steel products.


(k) The term *carbon hot forming operation* (or “carbon”) means those hot forming operations which produce a majority, on a tonnage basis, of carbon steel products.


(l) The term *specialty hot forming operation* (or “specialty”) applies to all hot forming operations other than “carbon hot forming operations.”




