# ยง 51-11.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Committee* means the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.


*Committee employee* or *employee* means:


(1) Any current or former officer or employee of the Committee;


(2) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of the Committee or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for the Committee; and


(3) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the Committee, whether formal or informal.


(4) Provided, that this definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the Committee and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the Committee.


*Demand* means a subpoena, request, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or information related to, for the appearance and testimony of a Committee employee that is issued in a legal proceeding.


*General Counsel* means Committee General Counsel or Committee employee to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this part.


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of discovery, litigation and informal requests by attorneys or others involved in legal proceedings seeking interviews or the like.


*Records* or *official records and information* mean all documents and materials, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the Committee, relating to information in the custody and control of the Committee, or acquired by a Committee employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, while such individual was employed.


*Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, recorded interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.




