# § 12.10   Service.

(a) *General requirements*—(1) *When service is required; number of copies.* When one party serves another with documents under these rules, a copy must be served on all other parties as well as filed with the Proceedings Clerk. Similarly, when a person files a document with the Office of Proceedings, the person must serve a copy of the document on all other parties. This rule does not apply to a complaint filed pursuant to § 12.13 of these rules, which shall only be filed with the Commission.


(2) *How service is made.* Service shall be made by:


(i) Personal service;


(ii) First-class or a more expeditious form of United States mail or an overnight or similar commercial delivery service;


(iii) Facsimile (“fax”); or


(iv) Electronic mail (“email”).


(3) Service by fax or email shall be permitted at the discretion of the Presiding Officer, with the parties' consent. The consent of a party must specify the email address or fax number to be used. Signed documents that are served by email attachment must be in PDF or other non-alterable form.


(4) Service will be complete at the time of personal service; upon deposit in the mail or with an overnight or similar commercial delivery service of a properly addressed document for which all postage or delivery service fees have been paid; or upon transmission by fax or email. Service by email or by fax will not be effective if the party making service learns that the attempted service did not reach the person to be served.


(5) Where service is effected by mail or commercial delivery service (but not by fax or email), the time within which the person served may respond thereto shall be extended by five (5) days.


(6) *Statement of Service.* A statement of service shall be made by filing with the Proceedings Clerk, simultaneously with the filing of the document, a statement signed by the party making service or by his attorney or representative that:


(i) Confirms that service has been made;


(ii) Identifies each person served;


(iii) Sets forth the date of service; and


(iv) Recites the manner of service.


(b) *Service of orders and decisions.* A copy of all notices, rulings, opinions, and orders of the Proceedings Clerk, the Director of the Office of Proceedings, an Administrative Judge, an Administrative Law Judge, the General Counsel or any employee under the General Counsel's supervision as the General Counsel may designate, or the Commission shall be served by the Proceedings Clerk on each of the parties. The Commission, in its discretion and with due consideration for the convenience of the parties, may serve the aforementioned documents to the parties by electronic means.


(c) *Designation of person to receive service.* The first page of the first document filed in a proceeding by a party or participant shall include the contact information of a person authorized to receive service on their behalf. Thereafter, service of documents shall be made upon the person authorized unless service on the party is ordered by an Administrative Judge, an Administrative Law Judge or the Commission, or unless no person authorized to receive service can be found, or unless the person authorized to receive service is changed by the party upon due notice to all other parties.



---

[N] [78 FR 12936, Feb. 26, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 64352, Nov. 18, 2021]




