# § 1.444-1T   Election to use a taxable year other than the required taxable year (temporary).

(a) *General rules*—(1) *Year other than required year.* Except as otherwise provided in this section and § 1.444-2T, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation (as defined in § 1.441-3(c)) may make or continue an election (a “section 444 election”) to have a taxable year other than its required taxable year. See paragraph (b) of this section for limitations on the taxable year that may be elected. See § 1.444-2T for rules that generally prohibit a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that is a member of a tiered structure from making or continuing a section 444 election. See § 1.444-3T for rules explaining how and when to make a section 444 election.


(2) *Effect of section 444 election*—(i) *In general.* A partnership or S corporation that makes or continues a section 444 election shall file returns and make payments as required by §§ 1.7519-1T and 1.7519-2T. A personal service corporation that makes or continues a section 444 election is subject to the deduction limitation of § 1.280H-1T.


(ii) *Duration of section 444 election.* A section 444 election shall remain in effect until the election is terminated pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(3) *Section 444 election not required for certain years.* A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is not required to make a section 444 election to use—


(i) A taxable year for which such entity establishes a business purpose to the satisfaction of the Commissioner (*i.e.,* approved under section 4 or 6 of Rev. Proc. 87-32, 1987-28 I.R.B. 14, or any successor revenue ruling or revenue procedure), or


(ii) A taxable year that is a “grandfathered fiscal year,” within the meaning of section 5.01(2) of Rev. Proc. 87-32 or any successor revenue ruling or revenue procedure.


(4) *Required taxable year.* For purposes of this section, the term “required taxable year” means the taxable year determined under section 706(b), 1378, or 441(i) without taking into account any taxable year which is allowable either—


(i) By reason of business purpose (*i.e.,* approved under section 4 or 6 of Rev. Proc. 87-32 or any successor revenue ruling or procedure), or


(ii) As a “grandfathered fiscal year” within the meaning of section 5.01(2) of Rev. Proc. 87-32, or any successor revenue ruling or procedure.


(5) *Termination of section 444 election*—(i) *In general.* A section 444 election is terminated when—


(A) A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation changes to its required taxable year; or


(B) A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation liquidates (including a deemed liquidation of a partnership under § 1.708-1 (b)(1)(iv)); or


(C) A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation willfully fails to comply with the requirements of section 7519 or 280H, whichever is applicable; or


(D) A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation becomes a member of a tiered structure (within the meaning of § 1.444-2T), unless it is a partnership or S corporation that meets the same taxable year exception under § 1.444-2T (e); or


(E) An S corporation's S election is terminated; or


(F) A personal service corporation ceases to be a personal service corporation.


(ii) *Effective date of termination.* A termination of a section 444 election shall be effective—


(A) In the case of a change to the required year, on the first day of the short year caused by the change;


(B) In the case of a liquidating entity, on the date the liquidation is completed for tax purposes;


(C) In the case of willful failure to comply, on the first day of the taxable year (determined as if a section 444 election had never been made) determined in the discretion of the District Director;


(D) In the case of membership in a tiered structure, on the first day of the taxable year in which the entity is considered to be a member of a tiered structure, or such other taxable year determined in the discretion of the District Director;


(E) In the case of termination of S status, on the first day of the taxable year for which S status no longer exists;


(F) In the case of a personal service corporation that changes status, on the first day of the taxable year, for which the entity is no longer a personal service corporation.


(iii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.


(iv) *Special rule for entity that liquidates or is sold prior to making a section 444 election, required return, or required payment.* A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that is liquidated or sold for tax purposes before a section 444 election, required return, or required payment is made for a particular year may, nevertheless, make or continue a section 444 election, if otherwise qualified. (See §§ 1.7519-2T (a)(2) and 1.7519-1T (a)(3), respectively, for a description of the required return and a definition of the term “required payment.”) However, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation (or a trustee or agent thereof) must comply with the requirements for making or continuing a section 444 election. Thus, if applicable, required payments must be made and a subsequent claim for refund must be made in accordance with § 1.7519-2T(a)(6). The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (a)(5)(iv).


(6) *Re-activating certain S elections*—(i) *Certain corporations electing S status that did not make a back-up calendar year request.* If a corporation that timely filed Form 2553, Election by a Small Business Corporation, effective for its first taxable year beginning in 1987—


(A) Requested a fiscal year based on business purpose,


(B) Did not agree to use a calendar year in the event its business purpose request was denied, and


(C) Such business purpose request is denied or withdrawn,


(ii) *Certain corporations that revoked their S status.* If a corporation that used a fiscal year revoked its S election (pursuant to section 1362(d)(1)) for its first taxable year beginning in 1987, such corporation may retroactively re-activate its S election (*i.e.* rescind its revocation) by making a valid section 444 election for its first taxable year beginning in 1987 and complying with the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section.


(iii) *Procedures for re-activating an S election.* A corporation re-activating its S election pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) (i) or (ii) of this section must—


(A) Obtain the consents of all shareholders who have owned stock in the corporation since the first day of the first taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1986,


(B) Include the following statement at the top of the first page of the corporation's Form 1120S for its first taxable year beginning in 1987—“SECTION 444 ELECTION—RE-ACTIVATES S STATUS,” and


(C) Include the following statement with Form 1120S—“RE-ACTIVATION CONSENTED TO BY ALL SHAREHOLDERS WHO HAVE OWNED STOCK AT ANY TIME SINCE THE FIRST DAY OF THE FIRST TAXABLE YEAR OF THIS CORPORATION BEGINNING AFTER DECEMBER 31, 1986.”


(iv) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (a)(6) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(b) *Limitation on taxable years that may be elected*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, a section 444 election may be made only if the deferral period (as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) of the taxable year to be elected is not longer than three months.


(2) *Changes in taxable year*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation changing its taxable year, such entity may make a section 444 election only if the deferral period of the taxable year to be elected is not longer than the shorter of—


(A) Three months, or


(B) The deferral period of the taxable year that is being changed, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Special rule for certain existing corporations electing S status.* If a corporation with a taxable year other than the calendar year—


(A) Elected after September 18, 1986, and before January 1, 1988, under section 1362 of the Code to be an S corporation, and


(B) Elected to have the calendar year as the taxable year of the S corporation,


(iii) *Deferral period of the taxable year that is being changed.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the phrase “deferral period of the taxable year that is being changed” means the deferral period of the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year for which the taxpayer desires to make a section 444 election. Furthermore, the deferral period of such year will be determined by using the required taxable year of the taxable year for which the taxpayer desires to make a section 444 election. For example, assume P, a partnership that has historically used a March 31 taxable year, desires to change to a September 30 taxable year by making a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning April 1, 1987. Furthermore, assume that pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, P's required taxable year for the taxable year beginning April 1, 1987 is a year ending December 31. Based on these facts the deferral period of the taxable year being changed is nine months (the period from March 31 to December 31).


(iv) *Examples.* See paragraph (d)(1) of this section for examples that illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2).


(3) *Special rule for entities retaining 1986 taxable year.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation may, for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986, if otherwise qualified, make a section 444 election to have a taxable year that is the same as the entity's last taxable year beginning in 1986. See paragraph (d)(2) of this section for examples that illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b)(3).


(4) *Deferral period*—(i) *Retentions of taxable year.* For a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that desires to retain its taxable year by making a section 444 election, the term “deferral period” means the months between the beginning of such year and the close of the first required taxable year (as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (b)(4)(i).


(ii) *Adoptions of and changes in taxable year*—(A) *In general.* For a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that desires to adopt or change its taxable year by making a section 444 election, the term “deferral period” means the months that occur after the end of the taxable year desired under section 444 and before the close of the required taxable year.


(B) *Special rule.* If a partnership, S corporation or personal service corporation is using the required taxable year as its taxable year, the deferral period is deemed to be zero.


(C) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(5) *Miscellaneous rules*—(i) *Special rule for determining the taxable year of a corporation electing S status.* For purposes of this section, and only for purposes of this section, a corporation that elected to be an S corporation for a taxable year beginning in 1987 or 1988 and which elected to be an S corporation prior to September 26, 1988, will not be considered to have adopted or changed its taxable year by virtue of information included on Form 2553, Election by a Small Business Corporation. See Example 8 in paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) *Special procedure for cases where an income tax return is superseded*—(A) *In general.* In the case of a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that filed an income tax return for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986, but subsequently makes a section 444 election that would result in a different year end for such taxable year, the income tax return filed pursuant to the section 444 election will supersede the original return. However, any payments of income tax made with respect to such superseded return will be credited to the taxpayer's superseding return and the taxpayer may file a claim for refund for such payments. See examples (5) and (7) in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(B) *Procedure for superseding return.* In order to allow the Service to process the affected income tax returns in an efficient manner, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that desires to supersede an income tax return in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, should type or legibly print at the top of the first page of the income tax return for the taxable year elected—“SECTION 444 ELECTION—SUPERSEDES PRIOR RETURN.”


(iii) *Anti-abuse rule*—If an existing partnership, S corporation or personal service corporation (“predecessor entities”), or the owners thereof, transfer assets to a related party and the principal purpose of such transfer is to— 


(A) Create a deferral period greater than the deferral period of the predecessor entity's taxable year, or 


(B) Make a section 444 election following the termination of the predecessor entity's section 444 election,


(iv) *Special rules for partial months and 52-53-week taxable years.* Except as otherwise provided in § 1.280H-1T(c)(2)(i)(A), for purposes of this section and §§ 1.7519-1T, 1.7519-2T and 1.280H-1T— 


(A) A month of less than 16 days is disregarded, and a month of more than 15 days is treated as a full month; and 


(B) A 52-53-week taxable year with reference to the end of a particular month will be considered to be the same as a taxable year ending with reference to the last day of such month. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986. 


(d) *Examples*—(1) *Changes in taxable year.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) *Special rule for entities retaining their 1986 taxable year.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 8205, 53 FR 19694, May 27, 1988, as amended by T.D. 8996, 67 FR 35012, May 17, 2002] 




