# § 980.1   Import regulations; Irish potatoes.

(a) *Findings and determinations with respect to imports of Irish potatoes.* (1) Pursuant to section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), it is hereby found that:


(i) Grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been issued from time to time pursuant to the following marketing orders: No. 945 (part 945 of this chapter), No. 948 (part 948 of this chapter), No. 947 (part 947 of this chapter), No. 946 (part 946 of this chapter), and No. 953 (part 953 of this chapter).


(ii) During the past several years, grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been in effect pursuant to two or more of such orders during each month of the year;


(iii) The marketing of Irish potatoes can be reasonably distinguished by the several seasonal categories, i.e., winter, early spring, late spring, early summer, late summer, and fall. The bulk of the fall crop is harvested and placed in storage in the fall and marketed over a period of several months extending into the following summer. But potatoes harvested from the other seasonal crops are generally marketed as the potatoes are harvested. The marketing seasons for these crops overlap.


(iv) Concurrent grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations under two or more of the aforesaid marketing orders are expected in the ensuing and future seasons, as in the past.


(2) Therefore it is hereby determined that:


(i) Imports of red-skinned, round type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in the area covered by Marketing Order No. 946 (part 946 of this chapter).


(ii) Imports of all other round type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in Area 2, Colorado (San Luis Valley) covered by Marketing Order No. 948, as amended (part 948 of this chapter).


(iii) Imports of long type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in the area covered by Order No. 945 (part 945 of this chapter).


(b) *Grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.* On and after the effective date hereof importation of Irish potatoes, except certified seed potatoes and red skinned, round types of potatoes, shall be prohibited unless they comply with the following requirements.


(1) Through the entire year, the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of Area 2, Colorado (San Luis Valley) covered by Marketing Order No. 948, as amended (part 948 of this chapter), applicable to potatoes of the round type, other than red-skinned varieties, shall be the respective grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements for imports of all other round type potatoes.


(2) Through the entire year the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of Marketing Order 945, as amended (part 945 of this chapter) applicable to potatoes of all long types shall be the respective grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements for imported potatoes of all long types.


(3) The grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements as provided for in this paragraph shall apply to imports of similar types of potatoes, unless otherwise ordered, on and after the effective date of the applicable domestic regulation or amendment thereto, as provided in this paragraph or 3 days following publication of such regulation or amendment in the _Federal Register,_ whichever is later.


(c) *Minimum quantities.* Any importation which, in the aggregate, does not exceed 500 pounds of red skinned, round type or long type potatoes, or 2,000 pounds for all other round type potatoes, may be imported without regard to the provisions of this section.


(d) *Plant quarantine.* No provisions of this section shall supersede the restrictions or prohibitions of potatoes under the Plant Quarantine Act of 1912.


(e) *Certified seed.* Certified seed potatoes shall include only those potatoes which are officially certified and tagged as seed potatoes by the Plant Health and Production Division, Plant Products Directorate, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, and which are subsequently used as seed. 


(f) *Designation of governmental inspection services.* The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Food of Plant Origin Division, Plant Products Directorate, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, are hereby designated as governmental inspection services for the purpose of certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of Irish potatoes that are imported, or to be imported, into the United States under the provisions of § 608e of the Act.


(g) *Inspection and official inspection certificates.* An official inspection certificate certifying the potatoes meet the United States import requirements for Irish potatoes under section 8e (7 U.S.C. 608e) issued by a designated governmental inspection service applicable to a particular shipment of potatoes is required on all imports of potatoes other than certified seed.


(1)(i) Inspection and certification by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service will be available and performed in accordance with the rules and regulations governing certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (7 CFR part 51), and each lot shall be made available and accessible for inspection as provided therein. Cost of inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant. For questions about inspection services or for further assistance, contact: Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Room 1536-S, STOP 0240, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-5870; fax (202) 720-0393.


(ii) If certification is provided by a designated governmental inspection service other than the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, in accordance with 980.1(f), an importer shall electronically transmit to USDA, prior to entry, the certificate number and an electronic image of the certificate using the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Automated Commercial Environment system. If this information is not provided electronically prior to entry, a paper copy of the certificate must accompany the shipment at the time of entry, and a copy of the certificate must be submitted by email or mail to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (888) 551-3523; or email *ComplianceInfo@usda.gov.*

(2) In the event the required inspection is performed prior to the arrival of the potatoes at the port of entry, the inspection certificate that is issued must show that the inspection was performed at the time of loading such potatoes for direct transportation to the United States; and if transportation is by water, the certificate must show that the inspection was performed at the time of loading onto the vessel.


(3) Inspection certificates shall cover only the quantity of potatoes that is being imported at a particular port of entry by particular importers.


(4) Each inspection certificate issued with respect to any Irish potatoes to be imported into the United States shall set forth, among other things:


(i) The date and place of inspection;


(ii) The name of the shipper, or applicant;


(iii) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate; 


(iv) The commodity inspected;


(v) The quantity of the commodity covered by the Certificate;


(vi) The principal identifying marks of the containers;


(vii) The railroad car initials and number, the truck and trailer number, the name of the vessel, or other identification of the shipment; and


(viii) The following statement if the facts warrant: Meets U.S. Import requirements under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937.


(h) *Reconditioning prior to importation.* Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to preclude any importer from reconditioning prior to importation any shipment of Irish potatoes for the purpose of making it eligible for importation under the Act.


(i) *Definitions.* (1) For the purpose of this part potatoes meeting the requirements of Canada No. 1 grade and Canada No. 2 grade shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of the U.S. No. 1 grade and U.S. No. 2 grade, respectively, and the tolerances for size, as set forth in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Potatoes (§§ 51.1540 to 51.1556, inclusive of this title) may be used. 


(2) *Importation* means release from the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. 


(j) *Exemptions.* (1) The grade, size, quality and maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to potatoes imported for canning, freezing, other processing, livestock feed, charity, or relief, but such potatoes shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 980.501. Processing includes canning, freezing, dehydration, chips, shoestrings, starch and flour. Processing does not include potatoes that are only peeled, or cooled, sliced, diced, or treated to prevent oxidation, or made into fresh potato salad.


(2) There shall be no size requirements for potatoes that are imported in containers with a net weight of 3 pounds or less, if the potatoes are otherwise U.S. No. 1 grade or better.



---

[N] [34 FR 8044, May 22, 1969, as amended at 35 FR 8204, May 26, 1970; 36 FR 9634, May 27, 1971; 37 FR 8059, Apr. 25, 1972; 54 FR 22577, May 25, 1989; 57 FR 30382, July 9, 1992; 58 FR 69189, Dec. 30, 1993; 61 FR 13060, Mar. 26, 1996; 67 FR 66531, Nov. 1, 2002; 74 FR 2808, Jan. 16, 2009; 74 FR 65394, Dec. 10, 2009; 79 FR 8256, Feb. 12, 2014; 80 FR 22361, Apr. 22, 2015; 85 FR 12295, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]




