# § 1.897-1   Taxation of foreign investment in United States real property interests, definition of terms.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Purpose and scope of regulations.* These regulations provide guidance with respect to the taxation of foreign investments in U.S. real property interests and related matters. This section defines various terms for purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C and the regulations thereunder. Section 1.897-2 provides rules regarding the definition of, and consequences of, U.S. real property holding corporation status. Section 1.897-3 sets forth rules pursuant to which certain foreign corporations may elect under section 897(i) to be treated as domestic corporations for purposes of sections 897 and 6039C. Finally, § 1.987-4 provides rules concerning the similar election under section 897(k) for certain foreign corporations in the process of liquidation. 


(2) *Applicability date.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(2), the regulations set forth in this section and §§ 1.897-2 through 1.897-4 apply to transactions occurring after June 18, 1980. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3)(vi) of this section, paragraphs (c)(3) and (4), (k), and (l) of this section apply to transactions occurring on or after April 25, 2024, and transactions occurring before April 25, 2024, resulting from an entity classification election under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that was effective on or before April 25, 2024, but was filed on or after April 25, 2024. For transactions occurring before April 25, 2024, *see* paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (l) of this section and § 1.897-9T(c) contained in 26 CFR part 1, as revised April 1, 2024.


(b) *Real property*—(1) *In general.* The term “real property” includes the following three categories of property: Land and unserved natural products of the land, improvements, and personal property associated with the use of real property. The three categories of real property are defined in subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this paragraph (b). Local law definitions will not be controlling for purposes of determining the meaning of the term “real property” as it is used in sections 897, 1445, and 6039C and the regulations thereunder.


(2) *Land and unserved natural products of the land.* The term “real property” includes land, growing crops and timber, and mines, wells, and other natural deposits. Crops and timber cease to be real property at the time that they are served from the land. Ores, minerals, and other natural deposits cease to be real property when they are extracted from the ground. The storage of severed or extracted crops, timber, or minerals in or upon real property will not cause such property to be recharacterized as real property.


(3) *Improvements*—(i) *In general.* The term “real property” includes improvements on land. An improvement is a building, any other inherently permanent structure, or the structural components of either, as defined in subdivisions (ii) through (iv) of this paragraph (b)(3).


(ii) *Building.* The term “building” generally means any structure or edifice enclosing a space within its walls, and usually covered by a roof, the purpose of which is, for example, to provide shelter or housing or to provide working, office, parking, display, or sales space. The term includes, for example, structures such as apartment houses, factory and office buildings, warehouses, barns, garages, railway or bus stations, and stores. Any structure that is classified as a building for purposes of section 48(a)(1)(B) and § 1.48-1 shall be treated as such for purposes of this section.


(iii) *Inherently permanent structure*—(A) *In general.* The term “inherently permanent structure” means any property not otherwise described in this paragraph (b)(3) that is affixed to real property and that will ordinarily remain affixed for an indefinite period of time. Property that is not classified as a building for purposes of section 48(a)(1)(B) and § 1.48-1 may nevertheless constitute an inherently permanent structure. For purposes of this section, affixation to real property may be accomplished by weight alone.


(B) *Use of precedents under section 48.* Any property not otherwise described in this paragraph (b)(3) that constitutes “other tangible property” under the principles of section 48(a)(1)(B) and § 1.48-1 (c) and (d) shall be treated for purposes of this section as an inherently permanent structure. Thus, for example, the term includes swimming pools, paved parking areas and other pavements, special foundations for heavy equipment, wharves and docks, bridges, fences, inherently permanent advertising displays, inherently permanent outdoor lighting facilities, railroad tracks and signals, telephone poles, permanently installed telephone and television cables, broadcasting towers, oil derricks, oil and gas pipelines, oil and gas storage tanks, grain storage bins, and silos. However, property that is determined to be either property in the nature of machinery under § 1.48-1(c) or property which is essentially an item of machinery or equipment under § 1.48-1(e)(1)(i) shall not be treated as an inherently permanent structure.


(C) *Absence of precedents under section 48.* Where precedents developed under the principles of section 48 fail to provide adequate guidance with respect to the classification of particular property, the determination of whether such property constitutes an inherently permanent structure shall be made in view of all the facts and circumstances. In particular, the following factors must be taken into account:


(*1*) The manner in which the property is affixed to real property;


(*2*) Whether the property was designed to be easily removable or to remain in place indefinitely;


(*3*) Whether the property has been moved since its initial installation;


(*4*) Any circumstances that suggest the expected period of affixation (e.g., a lease that requires removal of the property upon its expiration);


(*5*) The amount of damage that removal of the property would cause to the property itself or to the real property to which it is affixed; and


(*6*) The extent of the effort that would be required to remove the property, in terms of time and expense.


(iv) *Structural components of buildings and other inherently permanent structures.* Structural components of buildings and other inherently permanent structures, as defined in § 1.48-1 (e)(2), themselves constitute improvements. Structural components include walls, partitions, floors, ceilings, windows, doors, wiring, plumbing, central heating and central air conditioning systems, lighting fixtures, pipes, ducts, elevators, escalators, sprinkler systems, fire escapes and other components relating to the operation or maintenance of a building. However, the term “structural components” does not include machinery the sole justification for the installation of which is the fact that such machinery is required to meet temperature or humidity requirements which are essential for the operation of other machinery or the processing of materials or foodstuffs. Machinery may meet the “sole justification” test provided by the preceding sentence even though it incidentally provides for the comfort of employees or serves to an insubstantial degree areas where such temperature or humidity requirements are not essential.


(4) *Personal property associated with the use of the real property*—(i) *In general.* The term “real property” includes movable walls, furnishings, and other personal property associated with the use of the real property. Personal property is associated with the use of real property only if it is described in one of the categories set forth in subdivisions (A) through (D) of this paragraph (b)(4)(i). “Personal property” for purposes of this section means any property that constitutes “tangible personal property” under the principles of § 1.48-1(c), without regard to whether such property qualifies as section 38 property. Such property will be associated with the use of the real property only where both the personal property and the United States real property interest with which it is associated are held by the same person or by related persons within the meaning of § 1.897-1(i). For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(i), property is used “predominantly” in a named activity if it is devoted to that activity during at least half of the time in which it is in use during a calendar year.


(A) *Property used in mining, farming, and forestry.* Personal property is associated with the use of real property if it is predominantly used to exploit unsevered natural products in or upon the land. Such property includes mining equipment used to extract ores, minerals, and other natural deposits from the ground. It also includes any property used to cultivate the soil and harvest its products, such as farm machinery, draft animals, and equipment used in the growing and cutting of timber. However, personal property used to process or transport minerals, crops, or timber after they are severed from the land is not associated personal property.


(B) *Property used in the improvement of real property.* Personal property is associated with the use of real property if it is predominantly used to construct or otherwise carry out improvements to real property. Such property includes equipment used to alter the natural contours of the land, equipment used to clear and prepare raw land for construction, and equipment used to carry out the construction of improvements.


(C) *Property used in the operation of a lodging facility.* Personal property is associated with the use of real property if it is predominantly used in connection with the operation of a lodging facility. Property that is used in connection with the operation of a lodging facility includes property used in the living quarters of such facility, such as beds and other furniture, refrigerators, ranges and other equipment, as well as property used in the common areas of such facility, such as lobby furniture and laundry equipment. Such property constitutes personal property associated with the use of real property in the hands of the owner or operator of the facility, not of the tenant or guest. A lodging facility is an apartment house or apartment, hotel, motel, dormitory, residence, or any other facility (or part of a facility) predominantly used to provide, at a charge, living and/or sleeping accommodations, whether on daily, weekly, monthly, annual, or other basis. The term “lodging facility” does not include a personal residence occupied solely by its owner, or a facility used primarily as a means of transportation (such as an aircraft, vessel, or a railroad car) or used primarily to provide medical or convalescent services, even though sleeping accommodations are provided. Nor does the term include temporary living quarters provided by an employer due to the unavailability of lodgings within a reasonable distance of a work-site (such as a mine or construction project). The term “lodging facility” does not include any portion of a facility that constitutes a nonlodging commercial facility and that is available to persons not using the lodging facility on the same basis that it is available to tenants of the lodging facility. Examples of nonlodging commercial facilities include restaurants, drug stores, and grocery stores located in a lodging facility.


(D) *Property used in the rental of furnished office and other work space.* Personal property is associated with the use of real property if it is predominantly used by a lessor to provide furnished office or other work space to lessees. Property that is so used includes office furniture and equipment included in the rental of furnished space. Such property constitutes personal property associated with the use of real property in the hands of the lessor, not of the lessee.


(ii) *Dispositions of associated personal property*—(A) *In general.* Personal property that has become associated with the use of a real property interest shall itself be treated as a real property interest upon its disposition, unless either:


(*1*) The personal property is disposed of more than one year before the disposition of any present right to use or occupy the real property with which it was associated (and subject to the provisions of subdivision (B) of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii));


(*2*) The personal property is disposed of more than one year after the disposition of all present rights to use or occupy the real property with which it was associated (and subject to the provisions of subdivision (C) of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii)); or


(*3*) The personal property and the real property with which it was associated are separately sold to persons that are related neither to the transferor nor to one another (and subject to the provisions of subdivision (D) of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii)).


(B) *Personalty property disposed of one year before realty.* A transferor of personal property associated with the use of real property need not treat such property as a real property interest upon disposition if on the date of disposition the transferor does not expect or intend to dispose of the real property until more than one year later.


(C) *Personalty disposed of one year after realty.* A disposition of real property shall be disregarded for purposes of subdivision (A)(*2*) of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) if any right to use or occupy the real property is reacquired within the one-year period referred to in that subdivision. However, the disposition shall not be disregarded if such reacquisition is made in foreclosure of a mortgage or other security interest, in the exercise of a contractual remedy, or in the enforcement of a judgment. If, however, the reacquisition of the property is made pursuant to a plan the principal purpose of which is the avoidance of the provisions of section 897, 1445, or 6039C and the regulations thereunder, then the initial disposition shall be disregarded for purposes of subdivision (A)(*2*) of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii).


(D) *Separate dispositions of personalty and realty.* A transferor of personal property associated with the use of real property need not treat such property as a real property interest upon disposition if within 90 days before or after such disposition the transferor separately disposes of the real property interest to persons that are related neither to the transferor nor to the purchaser of the personal property. A transferor may rely upon this rule unless the transferor knows or has reason to know that the purchasers of the real property and the personal property—


(*1*) Are related persons; or


(*2*) Intend to reassociate the personal property with the use of the real property within one year of the date of disposition of the personal property.


(E) *Status of property in hands of transferee.* Personal property that has been associated with the use of real property and that is sold to an unrelated party will be treated as real property in the hands of the transferee only if the personal property becomes associated with the use of real property held or acquired by the transferee, in the manner described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Determination dates.* The determination of whether personal property is personal property associated with the use of real property as defined in this paragraph (b)(4) is to be made on the date the personal property is disposed of and on each applicable determination date. See § 1.897-2(c).


(c) *United States real property interest*—(1) *In general.* The term “United States real property interest” means any interest, other than an interest solely as a creditor, in either:


(i) Real property located in the United States or the Virgin Islands, or


(ii) A domestic corporation unless it is established that the corporation was not a U.S. real property holding corporation within the period described in section 897(c)(1)(A)(ii).


In addition, for the limited purpose of determining whether any corporation is a U.S. real property holding corporation, the term “United States real property interest” means an interest, other than an interest solely as a creditor, in a foreign corporation unless it is established that the foreign corporation is not a U.S. real property holding corporation within the period prescribed in section 897(c)(1)(A)(ii). See § 1.897-2 for rules regarding the manner of establishing that a corporation is not a United States real property holding corporation.


(2) *Exceptions and special rules.*

(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Corporation that has disposed of all U.S. real property interests.* The term “United States real property interest” does not include an interest in a corporation which has disposed of all its U.S. real property interests in transactions in which the full amount of gain, if any, was recognized, as provided by section 897(c)(1)(B). See § 1.897-2(f) for rules regarding the requirements of section 897(c)(1)(B).


(iii) *Publicly-traded corporations.* If, at any time during the calendar year, any class of stock of a domestic corporation is regularly traded on an established securities market, an interest in such corporation shall be treated as a U.S. real property interest only in the case of:


(A) A regularly traded interest owned by a person who beneficially owned more than 5 percent of the total fair market value of that class of interests at any time during the five-year period ending either on the date of disposition of such interest or other applicable determination date (or the period since June 18, 1980, in shorter), or


(B) [Reserved]


(iv) *Publicly traded partnerships and trusts.* If any class of interests in a partnership or trust is, within the meaning of § 1.897-1(m) and (n), regularly traded on an established securities market, then for purposes of sections 897(g) and 1445 and § 1.897-2 (d) and (e) an interest in the entity shall not be treated as an interest in a partnership or trust. Instead, such an interest shall be subject to the rules applicable to interests in publicly traded corporations pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Such interests can be real property interests in the hands of a person that holds a greater than 5 percent interest. Therefore, solely for purposes of determining whether greater than 5 percent interests in such an entity constitute U.S. real property interests the disposition of which is subject to tax, the entity is required to determine pursuant to the provisions of § 1.897-2 whether the assets it holds would cause it to be classified as a U.S. real property holding corporation if it were a corporation. The treatment of dispositions of U.S. real property interests by publicly traded partnerships and trusts is not affected by the rules of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv); by reason of the operation of section 897(a), foreign partners or beneficiaries are subject to tax upon their distributive share of any gain recognized upon such dispositions by the partnership or trust. The rules of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) are illustrated by the following example.


(3) *Domestically controlled QIE*—(i) *In general.* An interest in a domestically controlled qualified investment entity (QIE) is not a United States real property interest. A QIE is domestically controlled if foreign persons hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the fair market value of the QIE's outstanding stock at all times during the testing period. For rules that apply to distributions by a QIE (including a domestically controlled QIE) attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest, *see* section 897(h)(1).


(ii) *Look-through approach for determining QIE stock held directly or indirectly.* The following rules apply for purposes of determining whether a QIE is domestically controlled:


(A) *Non-look-through persons considered holders.* Only a non-look-through person is considered to hold directly or indirectly stock of the QIE.


(B) *Attribution from look-through persons.* Stock of a QIE that, but for the application of paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, would be considered directly or indirectly held by a look-through person, is instead considered held directly or indirectly by the look-through person's shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries, as applicable, that are non-look-through persons based on the non-look-through person's proportionate interest in the look-through person. To the extent the shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries, as applicable, of the look-through person are also look-through persons, this paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) applies to such shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries as if they directly or indirectly held, but for the application of paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, their proportionate share of the stock of the QIE.


(C) *No attribution from non-look-through persons.* Stock of a QIE considered held directly or indirectly by a non-look-through person is not considered held directly or indirectly by any other person.


(iii) *Special rules for applying look-through approach.* The following additional special rules apply for purposes of determining whether a QIE is domestically controlled:


(A) *Certain holders of U.S. publicly traded QIE stock.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (c)(3), a person holding less than five percent of U.S. publicly traded stock of a QIE at all times during the testing period, determined without regard to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, is treated as a United States person that is a non-look-through person with respect to that stock, unless the QIE has actual knowledge that such person is not a United States person or has actual knowledge that such person is foreign controlled as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section (treating any person that is not a non-public domestic C corporation as if it were a non-public domestic C corporation for this purpose). For an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A), *see* paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(C) of this section (*Example 3*).


(B) *Certain foreign-controlled domestic C corporations.* A non-public domestic C corporation is treated as a look-through-person if it is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation. For an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B), *see* paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B) of this section (*Example 2*).


(C) *Public QIEs.* A public QIE is treated as a foreign person that is a non-look-through person. The preceding sentence does not apply, however, if the public QIE is a domestically controlled QIE as defined in this paragraph (c)(3), determined after the application of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii), in which case the public QIE is treated as a United States person that is a non-look-through person. For an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C), *see* paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(C) of this section (*Example 3*).


(iv) *Treatment of certain persons as foreign persons*—(A) *Qualified foreign pension fund or qualified controlled entity.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a qualified foreign pension fund (including any part of a qualified foreign pension fund) or a qualified controlled entity is treated as a foreign person, irrespective of whether the fund or entity qualifies for the exception from section 897 provided in § 1.897(l)-1(b)(1). For an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A), *see* paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(A) of this section (*Example 1*). *See also* paragraph (k) of this section for a definition of foreign person that applies for purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C.


(B) *International organization.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), an international organization (as defined in section 7701(a)(18)) is treated as a foreign person. *See* § 1.897-9T(e) (regarding the treatment of international organizations under sections 897, 1445, and 6039C), which provides that an international organization is not a foreign person with respect to United States real property interests, and is not subject to sections 897, 1445, and 6039C on the disposition of a United States real property interest.


(v) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (c)(3):


(A) A *domestic C corporation* is any domestic corporation other than a regulated investment company (RIC) as defined in section 851, a real estate investment trust (REIT) as defined in section 856, or an S corporation as defined in section 1361.


(B) A *foreign-controlled domestic corporation* is any non-public domestic C corporation if foreign persons hold directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the fair market value of the non-public domestic C corporation's outstanding stock. For purposes of determining whether a non-public domestic C corporation is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation, the rules of paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) and (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section apply with the following modifications—


(*1*) In paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, treating references to *QIE* as references to *non-public domestic C corporation;* and


(*2*) A non-public domestic C corporation that is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation under this paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) is treated as a look-through person for purposes of determining whether any other non-public domestic C corporation is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation.


(C) A *look-through person* is any person other than a non-look-through person. Thus, for example, a look-through person includes a REIT that is not a public QIE, an S corporation, a partnership (domestic or foreign) that is not a publicly traded partnership, a RIC that is not a public RIC, and a trust (domestic or foreign, whether or not the trust is described in sections 671 through 679). For a special rule that treats certain non-public domestic C corporations as look-through persons, *see* paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.


(D) A *non-look-through person* is an individual, a domestic C corporation (other than a foreign-controlled domestic corporation), a nontaxable holder, a foreign corporation (including a foreign government pursuant to section 892(a)(3)), a publicly traded partnership (domestic or foreign), a public RIC, an estate (domestic or foreign), an international organization (as defined in section 7701(a)(18)), a qualified foreign pension fund (including any part of a qualified foreign pension fund), or a qualified controlled entity. For special rules that treat certain holders of QIE stock as non-look-through persons, *see* paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (C) of this section.


(E) A *non-public domestic C corporation* is any domestic C corporation that is not a public domestic C corporation.


(F) A *nontaxable holder* is—


(*1*) Any organization that is exempt from taxation by reason of section 501(a);


(*2*) The United States, any State (as defined in section 7701(a)(10)), any territory of the United States, or a political subdivision of any State or any territory of the United States; or


(*3*) Any Indian Tribal government (as defined in section 7701(a)(40)) or its subdivision (determined in accordance with section 7871(d)).


(G) A *public domestic C corporation* is a domestic C corporation any class of stock of which is regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of §§ 1.897-1(m) and 1.897-9T(d). A domestic C corporation is not a public domestic C corporation, however, if the QIE whose status as domestically controlled is being determined under this paragraph (c)(3) has actual knowledge that the domestic C corporation is foreign controlled as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section (treating the domestic C corporation for this purpose as if it were a non-public domestic C corporation).


(H) A *public QIE* is a QIE any class of stock of which is regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of §§ 1.897-1(m) and 1.897-9T(d), or that is a RIC that issues redeemable securities within the meaning of section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.


(I) A *public RIC* is a RIC that is not a QIE and any class of stock of which is either regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of §§ 1.897-1(m) and 1.897-9T(d), or common stock that is continuously offered pursuant to a public offering (within the meaning of section 4 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77a to 77aa)) and held by or for no fewer than 500 persons. A RIC is not a public RIC, however, if the QIE whose status as domestically controlled is being determined under this paragraph (c)(3) has actual knowledge that the RIC is foreign controlled as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section (treating the RIC for this purpose as if it were a non-public domestic C corporation).


(J) A *publicly traded partnership* is a partnership any class of interest of which is regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of §§ 1.897-1(m) and 1.897-9T(d). A domestic partnership is not a publicly traded partnership, however, if the QIE whose status as domestically controlled is being determined under this paragraph (c)(3) has actual knowledge that the domestic partnership is foreign controlled as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section (treating the partnership for this purpose as if it were a non-public domestic C corporation).


(K) A *qualified controlled entity* has the meaning set forth in § 1.897(l)-1(e)(9).


(L) A *qualified foreign pension fund* has the meaning set forth in § 1.897(l)-1(c).


(M) A *QIE* is a qualified investment entity, as defined in section 897(h)(4)(A).


(N) *Testing period* has the meaning set forth in section 897(h)(4)(D).


(O) *U.S. publicly traded QIE stock* is any class of stock of a QIE that is regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of §§ 1.897-1(m) and 1.897-9T(d), but only if the established securities market is in the United States.


(vi) *Transition rule for certain QIEs owned by foreign-controlled domestic corporations*—(A) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(B) of this section, paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section does not apply with respect to a QIE that is in existence as April 24, 2024, and satisfies the following requirements at all times on and after April 24, 2024—


(*1*) The QIE is domestically controlled (as determined under this paragraph (c)(3), but without regard to paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section);


(*2*) The aggregate fair market value of any United States real property interests acquired by the QIE directly and indirectly after April 24, 2024, is no more than 20 percent of the aggregate fair market value of the United States real property interests held directly and indirectly by the QIE as of April 24, 2024 (determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(D) of this section); and


(*3*) The percentage of the stock of the QIE held directly or indirectly by one or more non-look-through persons (determined based on fair market value and under the rules of paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) through (v) of this section and this paragraph (c)(3)(vi), including paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section) does not increase by more than 50 percentage points in the aggregate over the percentage of stock of the QIE owned directly or indirectly by such non-look-through persons on April 24, 2024.


(B) *Termination of transition rule.* The transition rule described in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section will cease to apply, and the rule in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section will apply for purposes of determining whether a QIE is domestically controlled, with respect to transactions occurring on or after the earlier of:


(*1*) The date immediately following the date on which the QIE fails to meet any of the requirements described in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section; and


(*2*) April 24, 2034. For an example illustrating the application of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section and this paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(B), *see* paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(E) of this section (*Example 5*).


(C) *Effect of transition rule on testing period.* If the transition rule described in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section ceases to apply to a QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(B) of this section, the rule in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section will not apply to the QIE with respect to the portion of any testing period during which the transition rule in this paragraph (c)(3)(vi) applied.


(D) *Determination of fair market value of United States real property interests.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*2*) of this section, the fair market value of the United States real property interests held directly and indirectly by a QIE on April 24, 2024, is the value of such property interests as calculated under section 851(b)(3) or 856(c)(4) as of the close of the most recent quarter of the QIE's taxable year before April 24, 2024. For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*2*) of this section, the fair market value of any property acquired after the close of the most recent quarter of the QIE's taxable year before April 24, 2024, whether acquired before or after April 24, 2024, is determined on the date of such acquisition using a reasonable method, provided the QIE consistently uses the same method with respect to all of its United States real property interests when applying this paragraph (c)(3)(vi).


(E) *Binding commitments.* For purposes of paragraphs (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*2*) and (*3*) of this section, a direct or indirect acquisition of a United States real property interest or of stock of a QIE pursuant to a written agreement that was (subject to customary conditions) binding before April 24, 2024, and all times thereafter, or pursuant to a tender offer announced before April 24, 2024, that is subject to section 14(e) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n(e)) and 17 CFR 240.14e-1 through 240.14e-8 (Regulation 14E), is treated as occurring on April 24, 2024.


(F) *Ownership by certain successors under section 368(a)(1)(F).* For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*3*) of this section, the transferor corporation and the resulting corporation (as defined in § 1.368-2(m)(1)) in a reorganization described under section 368(a)(1)(F) (whether engaged in by the QIE or by another corporation) are treated as the same corporation.


(G) *Ownership by less than five-percent public shareholders.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*3*) of this section, in the case of any class of stock of a QIE that is regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of §§ 1.897-1(m) and 1.897-9T(d), all such stock owned by persons holding less than 5 percent of that class of stock, determined without regard to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, is treated as stock owned by a single non-look-through person except to the extent that the QIE has actual knowledge regarding the ownership of any person.


(vii) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (c)(3) are illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed that each entity has a single class of stock or other ownership interests, that the ownership described existed throughout the relevant testing period and that, unless otherwise stated, a QIE is not a public QIE as defined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(H) of this section.


(A) *Example 1: QIE stock held by public domestic C corporation*—(*1*) *Facts.* USR is a REIT, 51 percent of the stock of which is held by X, a public domestic C corporation as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(G) of this section, and 49 percent of the stock of which is held by nonresident alien individuals, which are foreign persons as defined in paragraph (k) of this section.


(*2*) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(M) of this section, USR is a QIE. Because X is a public domestic C corporation, it cannot be a foreign-controlled domestic corporation and, therefore, is a non-look-through person as defined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section. Thus, under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section X is considered as holding directly or indirectly stock of USR for purposes of determining whether USR is a domestically controlled QIE. Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, the USR stock held directly or indirectly by X is not considered held directly or indirectly by any other person, including the shareholders of X. Because X is not a foreign person as defined in paragraph (k) of this section and holds directly or indirectly 51 percent of the single class of outstanding stock of USR, foreign persons hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of USR, and USR therefore is a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(*3*) *Alternative facts: QIE stock held by domestic partnership.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(A)(*1*) of this section (*Example 1*), except that, instead of being a public domestic C corporation, X is a domestic partnership that is not a publicly traded partnership as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(J) of this section. In addition, FC1, a foreign corporation, holds a 50 percent interest in X, and the remaining interests in X are held by U.S. citizens. X is not a non-look-through person as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section and, therefore, is a look-through person as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(C) of this section. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, X is not considered as holding directly or indirectly stock of USR for purposes of determining whether USR is a domestically controlled QIE. Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the stock of USR that, but for paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, is considered held by X, a look-through person, is instead considered held proportionately by X's partners that are non-look-through persons. Accordingly, because FC1 and the U.S. citizen partners in X are non-look-through persons as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, 25.5 percent of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by FC1 (50% x 51%), a foreign person as defined in paragraph (k) of this section, and 25.5 percent (in the aggregate) of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by the U.S. citizen partners in X (50% x 51%), who are not foreign persons as defined in paragraph (k) of this section. Foreign persons therefore hold directly or indirectly 74.5 percent of the stock of USR (49 percent of the stock of USR held directly or indirectly by nonresident alien individuals, who are non-look-through persons as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, plus the 25.5 percent held directly or indirectly by FC1), and USR is not a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. The result described in this paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(A)(*3*) would be the same if, instead of being a domestic partnership, X were a foreign partnership.


(*4*) *Alternative facts: QIE stock held by a qualified foreign pension fund.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(A)(*3*) of this section (*Example 1*), except that, instead of being a foreign corporation, FC1 is a qualified foreign pension fund. The analysis is the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(A)(*3*) (*Example 1*) regarding the treatment of X as a look-through person as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(C) of this section. In addition, FC1, a foreign person under paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, is a non-look-through person as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section. Because FC1 and the U.S. citizen partners in X are non-look-through persons, 25.5 percent of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by FC1 (50% x 51%), and 25.5 percent (in the aggregate) of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by the U.S. citizen partners in X (50% x 51%). Thus, for the same reasons described in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(A)(*3*) (*Example 1*), foreign persons hold directly or indirectly 74.5 percent of the stock of USR, and USR is not a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(B) *Example 2: QIE stock held by non-public domestic C corporation that is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation*—(*1*) *Facts.* USR is a REIT, 51 percent of the stock of which is held by X, a non-public domestic C corporation as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(E) of this section, and 49 percent of the stock of which is held by nonresident alien individuals, which are foreign persons as defined in paragraph (k) of this section. FC1, a foreign corporation, holds 40 percent of the stock of X, and Y, a nonresident alien individual, holds 15 percent of the stock of X. The remaining 45 percent of the stock of X is held by U.S. citizens.


(*2*) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(M) of this section, USR is a QIE. X, a non-public domestic C corporation, is a non-look-through person as defined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, unless paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section applies to treat X as a look-through person because X is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation. FC1, Y, and the U.S. citizen shareholders of X are non-look-through persons as defined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D). Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section, FC1, Y, and the U.S. citizen shareholders are all considered as holding directly or indirectly stock of X for purposes of determining whether X is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation. Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section, the stock held directly or indirectly by FC1, Y, and the U.S. citizen shareholders is not considered held directly or indirectly by any other person. Because FC1 and Y, both foreign persons as defined in paragraph (k) of this section, hold directly or indirectly 40 percent and 15 percent of the stock of X, respectively, foreign persons hold directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of X, and X is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, X is a look-through person as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(C) of this section and, therefore, under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section is not considered as holding directly or indirectly stock of USR for purposes of determining whether USR is a domestically controlled QIE. Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the stock of USR that, but for paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A), is considered held by X, a look-through person, is instead considered held proportionately by X's shareholders that are non-look-through persons. Accordingly, because FC1, Y, and the U.S. citizen shareholders of X are non-look-through persons, 20.4 percent of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by FC1 (40% x 51%), 7.65 percent of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by Y (15% x 51%), and 22.95 percent (in the aggregate) of the stock of USR is considered as held directly or indirectly by the U.S. citizen shareholders (45% x 51%). Foreign persons therefore hold directly or indirectly 77.05 percent of the stock of USR (49 percent of the stock of USR held directly by nonresident alien individuals, who are foreign persons and non-look-through persons as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D), plus the 20.4 percent and 7.65 percent held indirectly by FC1 and Y, respectively), and USR is not a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. The result described in this paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(B)(*2*) would be different if Y were a U.S. citizen instead of a nonresident alien individual, in which case X would be a non-look-through person because it is not a foreign-controlled domestic corporation under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) (the only foreign non-look-through person to hold directly or indirectly stock in X is FC1, which holds a 40-percent interest). Consequently, USR would be a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section because foreign persons hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the stock of USR.


(C) *Example 3: QIE stock held by public QIE that is a domestically controlled QIE*—(*1*) *Facts.* USR2 is a REIT, 51 percent of the stock of which is held by USR1, a REIT that is a public QIE as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(H) of this section, and 49 percent of the stock of which is held by nonresident alien individuals, which are foreign persons as defined in paragraph (k) of this section. The stock of USR1 is U.S. publicly traded QIE stock as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(O) of this section. FC1 and FC2, both foreign corporations, each hold 20 percent of the stock of USR1. The remaining 60 percent of the stock of USR1 is held by persons that each hold less than 5 percent of the stock of USR1 and with respect to which USR1 has no actual knowledge that such person is not a United States person or is foreign controlled (as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section by treating any person that is not a non-public domestic C corporation as if it were a non-public domestic C corporation for this purpose) (USR1 less than five-percent public shareholders).


(*2*) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(M) of this section, USR2 and USR1 are QIEs. Under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, each of the USR1 less than five-percent public shareholders is treated as a United States person that is a non-look-through person. Consequently, under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section USR1 is a domestically controlled QIE because FC1 and FC2, each a foreign person as defined in paragraph (k) of this section that is a non-look-through person under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, together hold directly or indirectly only 40 percent of the stock of USR1 and, thus, foreign persons hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of USR1. In addition, the USR2 stock held by USR1 is treated as held directly or indirectly by a United States person that is a non-look-through person under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section. Because USR1 holds directly or indirectly 51 percent of the stock of USR2, foreign persons hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of USR2, and USR2 is a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(*3*) *Alternative facts: QIE stock held by public QIE that is not a domestically controlled QIE.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(C)(*1*) of this section (*Example 3*), except that 25 percent of the stock of USR1 is held by each of FC1 and FC2, with the remaining 50 percent of the stock of USR1 held by the USR1 less than five-percent public shareholders. Regardless of the treatment of the USR1 less than five-percent public shareholders, USR1 is not a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section because FC1 and FC2, each a foreign person as defined in paragraph (k) of this section that is a non-look-through person under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, together hold directly or indirectly 50 percent of the stock of USR1 and, thus, foreign persons do not hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of USR1. In addition, the USR2 stock held by USR1 is treated as held by a foreign person that is a non-look-through person under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section. Because USR1 holds directly or indirectly 51 percent of the stock of USR2, foreign persons do not hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of USR2, and USR2 is not a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(D) *Example 4: QIE stock held by non-public QIE*—(*1*) *Facts.* USR2 is a REIT, 49 percent of the stock of which is held by nonresident alien individuals, and 51 percent of the stock of which is held by USR1, a REIT. USR1 is not a public QIE as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(H) of this section. U.S. citizens hold 50 percent of the stock of USR1. The remaining 50 percent of the stock of USR1 is held by PRS, a domestic partnership, 50 percent of the interests in which are held by DC, a public domestic C corporation as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(G) of this section, and 50 percent of the interests in which are held by nonresident alien individuals.


(*2*) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(M) of this section, USR2 and USR1 are QIEs. USR1 is not treated as a non-look-through person under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section because USR1 is not a public QIE as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(H) of this section. Each of USR1 and PRS is a look-through person as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(C) of this section that is not treated as holding directly or indirectly stock in USR2 for purposes of determining whether USR2 is a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. Because the U.S. citizens who hold USR1 stock are non-look-through persons as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, those U.S. citizens are treated under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section as holding directly or indirectly 25.5 percent of the stock of USR2 through their USR1 stock interest (50% x 51%) in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. Similarly, because DC and the nonresident alien partners in PRS are non-look-through persons, each is treated under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section as holding directly or indirectly the stock of USR2 through its interest in PRS and PRS's interest in USR1. Thus, DC is treated as holding directly or indirectly 12.75 percent of the stock of USR2 (50% × 50% × 51%) and the nonresident alien individual partners, which are foreign persons as defined in paragraph (k) of this section, are treated as directly or indirectly holding a 12.75 percent aggregate interest in the stock of USR2 (50% × 50% × 51%). Foreign persons therefore hold directly or indirectly 61.75 percent of the stock of USR2 (the 49 percent stock in USR2 directly held by nonresident alien individuals, who are foreign persons and non-look-through persons as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D), plus the 12.75 percent in stock indirectly held by the nonresident alien individual partners in PRS), and USR2 is not a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(E) *Example 5: Transition rule asset requirement*—(*1*) *Facts.* USR is a REIT formed on January 1, 2018. From formation, 51 percent of the stock of USR is held by X, a non-public domestic C corporation as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(E) of this section, 25 percent of the stock of USR is held by FC1, a foreign corporation, and 24 percent of the stock of USR is held by nonresident alien individuals. FC2, a foreign corporation, and FC3, also a foreign corporation, each hold 50 percent of the stock of X. On April 24, 2024, USR's only property is Asset 1, a United States real property interest. The value of Asset 1, calculated under section 856(c)(4) as of the most recent quarter of USR's taxable year before 24, is $100x. On January 1, 2026, USR borrows $30x and acquires Asset 2, a United States real property interest, for $30x.


(*2*) *Analysis.* As of April 24, 2024, USR is a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, because, as determined without regard to paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, X is a non-look-through person and, consequently, foreign persons hold directly or indirectly less than 50 percent of the stock of USR. Accordingly, USR satisfies the requirement under paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*1*) of this section. USR also satisfies the requirements under paragraphs (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*2*) and (*3*) of this section, respectively, as of such date, because USR has not acquired directly or indirectly any United States real property interests, and the ownership of stock of USR has not changed. Thus, as of April 24, 2024, USR qualifies for the transition relief under paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section. However, on January 1, 2026, USR no longer meets the requirement for transition relief in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*2*) of this section because the fair market value of Asset 2, $30x, is 30 percent (which is more than 20 percent) of $100x, which (as calculated in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*2*) and (c)(3)(vi)(D) of this section) is the fair market value of USR's United States real property interests, namely Asset 1, as of April 24, 2024. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(B)(*1*) of this section the transition rule ceases to apply to USR and, thus, paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) applies for purposes of determining whether USR is domestically controlled with respect to transactions occurring after January 1, 2026. Because FC2 and FC3 are non-look-through persons that hold more than 50 percent of the stock of X, X is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B), and USR will not be a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section as of January 2, 2026, because foreign non-look-through persons (FC1, 25 percent, FC2, 25.5 percent, FC3, 25.5 percent, and the nonresident alien individuals, 24 percent) directly or indirectly hold more than 50 percent of the stock of USR.


(*3*) *Alternative facts: transition rule ownership requirement.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(vii)(E)(*1*) of this section (*Example 5*), except that instead of USR borrowing funds and acquiring Asset 2, FC3 sells its 50-percent stock interest in X to FC2 on June 1, 2024, and, on January 1, 2026, FC1 sells its 25-percent stock interest in USR to FC4, a foreign corporation. Following FC3's sale of its X stock to FC2 on June 1, 2024, FC2's stock interest in USR has increased by 25.5 percentage points, from 25.5 percent on April 24, 2024 (which is 50 percent of 51 percent), to 51 percent. Following FC1's sale of its USR stock to FC4 on January 1, 2026, FC4's stock interest in USR has increased by 25 percentage points, from zero percent on April 24, 2024, to 25 percent. Accordingly, in the aggregate, non-look-through persons have increased their ownership in USR by 50.5 percentage points (25.5 percent and 25 percent for FC2 and FC4, respectively), and USR no longer meets the requirement for transition relief in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A)(*3*) of this section as of January 1, 2026. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(B)(*1*) of this section the transition rule ceases to apply to USR and, thus, paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section applies for purposes of determining whether USR is domestically controlled with respect to transactions occurring after January 1, 2026. Because FC2, a non-look-through person, holds more than 50 percent of the stock of X, X is a foreign-controlled domestic corporation under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, and USR will not be a domestically controlled QIE under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section because foreign non-look-through persons (FC2, 51 percent, FC4, 25 percent, and the nonresident alien individuals, 24 percent) directly or indirectly hold more than 50 percent of the stock of USR.


(4) *Foreign ownership percentage.* For purposes of calculating the foreign ownership percentage under section 897(h)(4)(C), the determination of the QIE stock that was held directly or indirectly by foreign persons is made under the rules of paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) through (vii) of this section.


(d) *Interest other than an interest solely as a creditor*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph defines an interest other than an interest solely as a creditor, with respect to real property, and with respect to corporations, partnerships, trusts, and estates. An interest solely as a creditor either in real property or in a domestic corporation does not constitute a United States real property interest. Similarly, where one corporation holds an interest solely as a creditor in a second corporation or in a partnership, trust, or estate, that interest will be disregarded for purposes of determining whether the first corporation is a U.S. real property holding corporation (except to the extent that such interest constitutes an asset used or held for use in a trade or business, in accordance with rules of § 1.897-1(f)). In addition, the disposition of an interest solely as a creditor in a partnership, trust, or estate is not subject to sections 897, 1445, and 6039C. Whether an interest is considered debt under any provisions of the Code is not determinative of whether it constitutes an interest solely as a creditor for purpose of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C and the regulations thereunder.


(2) *Interests in real property other than solely as creditor*—(i) *In general.* An interest in real property other than an interest solely as a creditor includes a fee ownership, co-ownership, or leasehold interest in real property, a time sharing interest in real property, and a life estate, remainder, or reversionary interest in such property. The term also includes any direct or indirect right to share in the appreciation in the value, or in the gross or net proceeds or profits generated by, the real property.


A loan to an individual or entity under the terms of which a holder of the indebtedness has any direct or indirect right to share in the appreciation in value of, or the gross or net proceeds or profits generated by, an interest in real property of the debtor or of a related person is, in its entirety, an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor. An interest in production payments described in section 636 does not generally constitute an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor. However, a right to production payments shall constitute an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor if it conveys a right to share in the appreciation in value of the mineral property. A production payment that is limited to a quantum of mineral (including a percentage of recoverable reserves produced) or a period of time will be considered to convey a right to share in the appreciation in value of the mineral property. The rules of this paragraph (d)(2)(i) are illustrated by the following example.


(ii) *Special rule*—(A) *Installment obligations.* A right to installment or other deferred payments from the disposition of an interest in real property will constitute an interest solely as a creditor if the transferor elects not to have the installment method of section 453(a) apply, any gain or loss is recognized in the year of disposition, and all tax due is timely paid. See section 1445 and regulations thereunder for further guidance concerning the availability of installment sale treatment under section 453. If an agreement for the payment of tax with respect to an installment sale is entered into with the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to section 1445, that agreement may specify whether or not the installment obligation will constitute an interest solely as a creditor. If an installment obligation constitutes an interest other than solely as a creditor then the receipt of each payment shall be treated as the disposition of an interest in real property that is subject to section 897(a) to the extent of any gain required to be taken into account pursuant to section 453.


If the original holder of an installment obligation that constitutes an interest other than solely as a creditor subsequently disposes of the obligation to an unrelated party and recognizes gain or loss pursuant to section 453B, the obligation will constitute an interest in real property solely as a creditor in the hands of the subsequent holder. However, if the obligation is disposed of to a related person and the full amount of gain realized upon the disposition of the real property has not been recognized upon such disposition of the installment obligation, then the obligation shall continue to be an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor in the hands of the subsequent holder subject to the rules of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A).


In addition, if the obligation is disposed of to any person for a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of sections 897, 1445, or 6039C, then the obligation shall continue to be an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor in the hands of the subsequent holder subject to the rules of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A). However, rights to payments arising from dispositions that took place before June 19, 1980, shall in no event constitute interests in real property other than solely as a creditor, even if such payments are received after June 18, 1980. In addition, rights to payments arising from dispositions to unrelated parties that took place before January 1, 1985, and that were not subject to U.S. tax pursuant to the provisions of a U.S. income tax treaty, shall not constitute interests in real property other than solely as a creditor, even if such payments are received after December 31, 1984.


(B) *Options.* An option, a contract or a right of first refusal to acquire any interest in real property (other than an interest solely as a creditor) will itself constitute an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor.


(C) *Security interests.* A right to repossess or foreclose on real property under a mortgage, security agreement, financing statement, or other collateral instrument securing a debt will not be considered a reversionary interest in, or a right to share in the appreciation in value of or gross or net proceeds or profits generated by, an interest in real property. Thus, no such right of repossession or foreclosure will of itself cause an interest in real property which is otherwise an interest solely as a creditor to become an interest other than solely as a creditor. In addition, a person acting as mortgagee in possession shall not be considered to hold an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor, if the mortgagee's interest in the property otherwise constitutes an interest solely as a creditor.


(D) *Indexed interest rates.* An interest will not constitute a right to share in the appreciation in the value of, or gross or net proceeds or profits generated by, real property solely because it bears a rate of interest that is tied to an index of any kind that is intended to reflect general inflation or deflation of prices and interest rates (e.g., the Consumer Price Index). However, where an interest in real property bears a rate of interest that is tied to an index the principal purpose of which is to reflect changes in real property values, the real property interest will be considered an indirect right to share in the appreciation in value of, or gross or net proceeds or profits generated by, real property. Such an indirect right constitutes an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor.


(E) *Commissions.* A right to payment of a commission, brokerage fee, or similar charge for professional services rendered in connection with the arrangement or financing of a purchase, sale, or lease of real property does not constitute a right to share in the appreciation in value of, or gross or net proceeds or profits of, real property solely because it is based upon a percentage of the purchase price or rent. Thus, a right to a commission earned by a real estate agent based on a percentage of the sales price does not constitute an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor.


However, a right to a commission, brokerage fee, or similar charge will constitute an interest other than solely as a creditor if the total amount of the payment is contingent upon appreciation, proceeds, or profits of the real property occurring or arising after the date of the transaction with respect to which the professional services were rendered. For example, a commission earned in connection with the purchase of a real property interest that is contingent upon the amount of gain ultimately realized by the purchaser will constitute an interest in real property other than solely as a creditor.


(F) *Trustees' fees, etc.* A right to payment of reasonable compensation for services rendered as a trustee, as an administrator of an estate, or in a similar capacity does not constitute a right to share in the appreciation in the value of, or gross or net proceeds or profits of, real property solely because the assets of the trust or estate include U.S. real property interests.


(3) *Interest in an entity other than solely as a creditor*—(i) In general. For purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C, an interest in an entity other than an interest solely as a creditor is—


(A) Stock of a corporation;


(B) An interest in a partnership as a partner within the meaning of section 761(b) and the regulations thereunder;


(C) An interest in a trust or estate as a beneficiary within the meaning of section 643(c) and the regulations thereunder or an ownership interest in any portion of a trust as provided in sections 671 through 679 and the regulations thereunder;


(D) An interest which is, in whole or in part, a direct or indirect right to share in the appreciation in value of an interest in an entity described in subdivision (A), (B), or (C) of this paragraph (d)(3)(i) or a direct or indirect right to share in the appreciation in value of assets of, or gross or net proceeds or profits derived by, the entity; or


(E) A right (whether or not presently exercisable) directly or indirectly to acquire, by purchase, conversion, exchange, or in any other manner, an interest described in subdivision (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this paragraph (d)(3) (i).


(ii) *Special rules*—(A) *Installment obligations.* A right to installment or other deferred payments from the disposition of an interest in an entity will constitute an interest solely as a creditor if the transferor elects not to have the installment method of section 453(a) apply, any gain or loss is recognized in the year of disposition, and tax due is timely paid. See section 1445 and regulations thereunder for further guidance concerning the availability of installment sale treatment under section 453. If an agreement for the payment of tax with respect to an installment sale is entered into with the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to section 1445, that agreement may specify whether or not the installment obligation will constitute an interest solely as a creditor. If an installment obligation constitutes an interest other than solely as a creditor then the receipt of each payment shall be treated as the disposition of such an interest and shall be subject to section 897(a) to the extent that:


(*1*) It constitutes the disposition of a U.S. real property interest and


(*2*) Gain or loss is required to be taken into account pursuant to section 453. Such treatment shall apply to payments arising from dispositions of interests in a corporation any class of the stock of which is regularly traded on an established securities market, but only in the case of a disposition of any portion of an interest described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section. If the original holder of an installment obligation that constitutes an interest other than solely as a creditor subsequently disposes of the obligation to an unrelated party and recognizes gain or loss pursuant to section 453B, the obligation will constitute an interest in the entity solely as a creditor in the hands of the subsequent holder. However, if the obligation is disposed of to a related person and the full amount of gain realized upon the disposition of the interest in the entity has not been recognized upon such disposition of the installment obligation, then the obligation shall continue to be an interest in the entity other than solely as a creditor in the hands of the subsequent holder subject to the rules of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A). In addition, if the obligation is disposed of to any person for a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 897, 1445, or 6039C, then the obligation shall continue to be an interest in the entity other than solely as a creditor in the hands of the subsequent holder subject to the rules of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A). However, rights to payments arising from dispositions that took place before June 19, 1980, shall in no event constitute interests in an entity other than solely as a creditor, even if such payments are received after June 18, 1980. In addition, such treatment shall not apply to payments arising from dispositions to unrelated parties that took place before January 1, 1985, and that were not subject to U.S. tax pursuant to the provisions of a U.S. income tax treaty, regardless of when such payments are received.


(B) *Contingent interests.* The interests described in subdivision (D) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section include any right to a payment from an entity the amount of which is contingent on the appreciation in value of an interest described in subdivision (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section or which is contingent on the appreciation in value of assets of, or the general gross or net proceeds or profits derived by, such entity. The right to such a payment is itself an interest in the entity other than solely as a creditor, regardless of whether the holder of such right actually holds an interest in the entity described in subdivision (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. For example, a stock appreciation right constitutes an interest in a corporation other than solely as a creditor even if the holder of such right actually holds no stock in the corporation. However, the interests described in subdivision (D) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section do not include any right to a payment that is (*1*) exclusively contingent upon and exclusively paid out of revenues from sales of personal property (whether tangible or intangible) or from services, or (*2*) exclusively contingent upon the resolution of a claim asserted against the entity by a person related neither to the entity nor to the holder of the interest.


(C) *Security interests.* A right to repossess or foreclose on an interest in an entity under a mortgage, security agreement, financing statement, or other collateral instrument securing a debt will not of itself cause an interest in an entity which is otherwise an interest solely as a creditor to become an interest other than solely as a creditor.


(D) *Royalties.* The interests described in subdivision (D) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section do not include rights to payments representing royalties, license fees, or similar charges for the use of patents, inventions, formulas, copyrights, literary, musical or artistic compositions, trademarks, trade names, franchises, licenses, or similar intangible property.


(E) *Commissions.* The interests described in subdivision (D) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section do not include a right to a commission, brokerage fee or similar charge for professional services rendered in connection with the purchase or sale of an interest in an entity. However, a right to such a payment will constitute an interest other than solely as a creditor if the total amount of the payment is contingent upon appreciation in value of assets of, or proceeds or profits derived by, the entity after the date of the transaction with respect to which the payment was earned.


(F) *Trustee's fees.* The interests described in subdivision (D) of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section do not include a right to payment representing reasonable compensation for services rendered as a trustee, as an administrator of an estate, or in a similar capacity.


(4) *Aggregation of interests.* If a person holds both interests solely as a creditor and interests other than solely as a creditor in real property or in an entity, those interests will generally be treated as separate and distinct interests. However, such interests shall be aggregated and treated as interests other than solely as a creditor in their entirety if the interest solely as a creditor has been separated from, or acquired separately from, the interest other than solely as a creditor, for a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 897, 1445, or 6039C by causing one or more of such interests to be an interest solely as a creditor. The existence of such a purpose will be determined with reference to all the facts and circumstances. Where an interest solely as a creditor has arm's-length interest and repayment terms it shall in no event be aggregated with and treated as an interest other than solely as a creditor. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(4), an interest rate that does not exceed 120 percent of the applicable Federal rate (as defined in section 1274(d)) shall be presumed to be an arm's-length interest rate. For purposes of applying the rules of this paragraph (d)(4), a person shall be treated as holding any interests held by a related person within the meaning of § 1.897-1(i).


(5) *“Interest” means “interest other than solely as a creditor.”* Unless otherwise stated, the term “interest” as used with regard to real property or with regard to an entity hereafter in the regulations under sections 897, 1445, and 6039C, means an interest in such real property or entity other than an interest solely as a creditor.


(e) *Proportionate share of assets held by an entity*—(1) *In general.* A person that holds an interest in an entity is for certain purposes treated as holding a proportionate or pro rata share of the assets held by the entity. Such proportionate share must be calculated, in accordance with the rules of this paragraph, for the following purposes.


(i) In determining whether a corporation is a U.S. real property holding corporation—


(A) A person holding an interest in a partnership, trust, or estate is treated as holding a proportionate share of the assets held by the partnership, trust, or estate (see section 897-2(e)(2)), and


(B) A corporation that holds a controlling interest in a second corporation is treated as holding a proportionate share of the assets held by the second corporation (see § 1.897-2(e)(3)).


(ii) In determining reporting obligations that may be imposed under section 6039C, the holder of an interest in a partnership, trust, or estate is treated as owning a proportionate share of the U.S. real property interests held by the partnership, trust, or estate.


(2) *Proportionate share of assets held by a corporation or partnership*—(i) *In general.* A person's proportionate or pro rata share of assets held by a corporation or partnership is determined by multiplying—


(A) The person's percentage ownership interest in the entity, by


(B) The fair market value of the assets held by the entity (or the book value of such assets, in the case of a determination pursuant to § 1.897-2(b)(2)).


(ii) *Percentage ownership interest.* A person's percentage ownership interest in a corporation or partnership is the percentage equal to the ratio of (A) the sum of the liquidation values of all interests in the entity held by the person to (B) the sum of the liquidation values of all outstanding interest in the entity. The liquidation value of an interest in an entity is the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property that would be distributed with respect to such interest upon the liquidation of the entity after satisfaction of liabilities to persons having interests in the entity solely as creditors. With respect to an entity that has interests outstanding that grant a presently-exercisable option to acquire or right to convert into or otherwise acquire an interest in the entity other than solely as a creditor, the liquidation value of all interests in such entity shall be calculated as though such option or right had been exercised, giving effect both to the payment of any consideration required to exercise the option or right and to the issuance of the additional interest.


(iii) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (e)(2) are illustrated by the following examples.


(3) *Proportionate share of assets held by trusts and estates*—(i) *In general.* A person's proportionate or pro rata share of assets held by a trust or estate is determined by multiplying—


(A) The person's percentage ownership interest in the trust or estate, by


(B) The fair market value of the assets held by the trust or estate (or the book value of such assets, in the case of a determination pursuant to § 1.897-2(b)(2)).


(ii) *Percentage ownership interest*—(A) *General rule.* A person's percentage ownership interest in a trust or an estate—is the percentage equal to the ratio of:


(*1*) The sum of the actuarial values of such person's interests in the cash and other assets held by the trust or estate after satisfaction of the liabilities of the trust or estate to persons holding interests in the trust or estate solely as creditors, to (*2*) the entire amount of such cash and other assets after satisfaction of liabilities to persons holding interests in the trust or estate solely as creditors. For purposes of calculating this ratio, the fair market value of the trust's or estate's assets, the amount of cash held by the trust or estate, and the amount of the liabilities to persons having interests solely as creditors is determined on the date with respect to which the percentage ownership interest is determined. With respect to a trust or estate that has interests outstanding that grant a presently-exercisable option to acquire or right to convert into or otherwise acquire an interest in the trust or estate other than solely as a creditor, the liquidation value of all interests in such entity shall be calculated as though such option or right had been exercised, giving effect both to the payment of any consideration required to exercise the option or right and to the issuance of the additional interest. With respect to a trust or estate that has interests outstanding that entitle any person to a distribution of U.S. real property interests upon liquidation that is disproportionate to such person's interest in the total assets of the trust or estate, such disproportionate right shall be disregarded in the calculation of the interest-holders' proportionate share of the U.S. real property interests held by the entity. For purposes of determining his own percentage ownership interest in a trust, a grantor or other person will be treated as owning any portion of the trust's cash and other assets which such person is treated as owning under sections 671 through 679.


(B) *Discretionary trusts and estates.* In determining percentage ownership interest in a trust or an estate, the sum of the definitely ascertainable actuarial values of interests in the cash and the other assets of the trust or estate held by persons in existence on the date with respect to which such determination is made must equal the amount in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section. If the amount in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section exceeds the sum of the definitely ascertainable actuarial values of the interests held by persons in existence on the determination date, the excess will be considered to be owned in total by each beneficiary who is in existence on such date, whose interest in the excess is not definitely ascertainable and who is potentially entitled to such excess. However, such excess shall not be considered to be owned in total by each beneficiary if the discretionary terms of the trust or estate were included for a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 897, 1445, or 6039C by causing assets other than U.S. real property interests to be attributed in total to each beneficiary. The rules of this paragraph (e)(3) are illustrated by the following example.


(4) *Dates with respect to which percentage ownership interests are determined.* The dates with respect to which percentage ownership interests are determined are the applicable determination dates outlined in § 1.897-2 or in regulations under section 6039C.


(f) *Asset used or held for use in a trade or business*—(1) *In general.* The term “asset used or held for use in a trade or business” means—


(i) Property, other than a U.S. real property interest, that is—


(A) Stock in trade of an entity or other property of a kind which would properly be included in the inventory of the entity if on hand at the close of the taxable year, or property held by the entity primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of its trade or business, or


(B) Depreciable property used or held for use in the trade or business, as described in section 1231(b)(1) but without regard to the holding period limitations of section 1231(b), or


(C) Livestock, including poultry, used or held for use in a trade or business for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes, and


(ii) Goodwill and going concern value, patents, inventions, formulas copyrights, literary, musical, or artistic compositions, trademarks, trade names, franchises, licenses, customer lists, and similar intangible property, but only to the extent that such property is used or held for use in the entity's trade or business and subject to the valuation rules of § 1.897-1(o)(4), and


(iii) Cash, stock, securities, receivables of all kinds, options or contracts to acquire any of the foregoing, and options or contracts to acquire commodities, but only to the extent that such assets are used or held for use in the corporation's trade or business and do not constitute U.S. real property interests.


(2) *Used or held for use in a trade or business.* An asset is used or held for use in an entity's trade or business if it is, under the principles of § 1.864-4(c)(2)—


(i) Held for the principal purpose of promoting the present conduct of the trade or business,


(ii) Acquired and held in the ordinary course of the trade or business, as, for example, in the case of an account or note receivable arising from that trade or business (including the performance of services), or


(iii) Otherwise held in a direct relationship to the trade or business.


(3) *Special rules concerning liquid assets*—(i) *Safe harbor amount.* Assets described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section shall be presumed to be used or held for use in a trade or business, in an amount up to 5 percent of the fair market value of other assets used or held for use in the trade or business. However, the rule of this paragraph (f)(3)(i) shall not apply with respect to any assets described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section that are held or acquired for the principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 897 or 1445.


(ii) *Investment companies.* Assets described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section shall be presumed to be used or held for use in an entity's trade or business if the principal business of the entity is trading or investing in such assets for its own account. An entity's principal business shall be presumed to be trading or investing in assets described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section if the fair market value of such assets held by the entity equals or exceeds 90 percent of the sum of the fair market values of the entity's U.S. real property interests, interests in real property located outside the United States, assets otherwise used or held for use in trade or business, and assets described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section.


(4) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (f) may be illustrated by the following examples:


(g) *Disposition.* For purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C, the term “disposition” means any transfer that would constitute a disposition by the transferor for any purpose of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder. The severance of crops or timber and the extraction of minerals do not alone constitute the disposition of a U.S. real property interest.


(h) *Gain or loss.* The amount of gain or loss arising from the disposition of the U.S. real property interest shall be determined as provided in section 1001 (a) and (b). Such gain or loss shall be subject to the provisions of section 897 (a) and (b), unless a nonrecognition provision is applicable pursuant to section 897 (d) or (e) and regulations thereunder. Amounts otherwise treated for Federal income tax purposes as principal and interest payments on debt obligations of all kinds (including obligations that are interests other than solely as a creditor) do not give rise to gain or loss that is subject to section 897(a). However, principal payments on installment obligations described in §§ 1.897-1(d)(2)(ii)(A) and 1.897-1(d)(3)(ii)(A) do give rise to gain or loss that is subject to section 897(a), to the extent such gain or loss is required to be recognized pursuant to section 453. The rules of paragraphs (g) and (h) are illustrated by the following examples.


(i) *Related person.* For purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C, persons are considered to be related if they are partners or partnerships described in section 707(b)(1) of the Code or if they are related within the meaning of section 267 (b) and (c) of the Code (except that section 267(f) shall apply without regard to section 1563(b)(2)).


(j) *Domestic corporation.* The term “domestic corporation” has the same meaning as set forth in section 7701(a) (3) and (4) and § 301.7701-5. For purposes of sections 897 and 6039C, it also includes a foreign corporation with respect to which an election under section 897(i) and § 1.897-3 or section 897(k) and § 1.897-4 to be treated as domestic corporation is in effect.


(k) *Foreign person.* The term *foreign person* means a nonresident alien individual (including an individual subject to the provisions of section 877), a foreign corporation as defined in paragraph (l) of this section, a foreign partnership, a foreign trust or a foreign estate, as such persons are defined by section 7701 and the regulations in this chapter under section 7701. A resident alien individual, including a nonresident alien individual with respect to whom there is in effect an election under section 6013(g) or (h) to be treated as United States resident, is not a foreign person. With respect to the status of foreign governments and international organizations, *see* § 1.897-9T(e). *See* paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A) of this section regarding the treatment of qualified foreign pension funds and qualified controlled entities as foreign persons for purposes of section 897(h)(4)(B).


(l) *Foreign corporation.* The term *foreign corporation* has the meaning ascribed to such term in section 7701(a)(3) and (5) and § 301.7701-5. For purposes of sections 897 and 6039C, however, the term does not include a foreign corporation with respect to which there is in effect an election under section 897(i) and § 1.897-3 to be treated as a domestic corporation. For purposes of section 897, the term does not include a qualified holder described in § 1.897(l)-1(d); *see* paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A) of this section regarding the treatment of qualified foreign pension funds and qualified controlled entities as foreign persons for purposes of section 897(h)(4)(B).


(m) *Established securities market.* For purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C, the term “established securities market” means—


(1) A national securities exchange which is registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f),


(2) A foreign national securities exchange which is officially recognized, sanctioned, or supervised by governmental authority, and


(3) Any over-the-counter market. An over-the-counter market is any market reflected by the existence of an interdealer quotation system. An interdealer quotation system is any system of general circulation to brokers and dealers which regularly disseminates quotations of stocks and securities by identified brokers or dealers, other than by quotation sheets which are prepared and distributed by a broker or dealer in the regular course of business and which contain only quotations of such broker or dealer.


(n) *Regularly traded cross-reference. See* § 1.897-9T(d) for a definition of regularly traded for purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C.


(o) *Fair market value*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C only, the term “fair market value” means the value of the property determined in accordance with the rules, contained in this paragraph (o). The definition of fair market value provided herein is not to be used in the calculation of gain or loss from the disposition of a U.S. real property interest pursuant to section 1001. An independent professional appraisal of the value of property must be submitted only if such an appraisal is specifically requested in connection with the negotiation of a security agreement pursuant to section 1445.


(2) *Method of calculating fair market value*—(i) *In general.* The fair market value of property is its gross value (as defined in paragraph (o)(2)(ii) of this section) reduced by the outstanding balance of any debts secured by the property which are described in paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section. See § 1.897-2(b) for the alternative use of book values in certain limited circumstances.


(ii) *Gross value.* Gross value is the price at which the property would change hands between an unrelated willing buyer and willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy or to sell and both having reasonable knowledge of all relevant facts. Generally, with respect to trade or business assets, going concern value should be used as it will provide the most accurate reflection of such a price. However, taxpayers may use other methods of valuation if they can establish that such method will provide a more accurate determination of gross value and if they consistently apply such method to all assets to be valued. See subdivisions (3) and (4) of this paragraph (o) for special rules with respect to the valuation of leases and of intangible assets.


(iii) Debts secured by the property. The gross value of property shall be reduced by the outstanding balance of debts that are:


(A) Secured by a mortgage or other security interest in the property that is valid and enforceable under the law of the jurisdiction in which the property is located, and


(B) Either (*1*) Incurred to acquire the property (including long-term financing obtained in replacement of construction loans or other short-term debt within one year of the acquisition or completion of the property), or (*2*) otherwise incurred in direct connection with the property, such as property tax liens upon real property or debts incurred to maintain or improve property.


(iv) *Anti-abuse rule.* The gross value of real property located outside the United States and of assets used or held for use in a trade or business shall be reduced by the outstanding balance of any debt that was entered into for the principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 897, 1445, or 6039C by enabling the corporation to acquire such assets. The existence of such a purpose shall be determined with reference to all the facts and circumstances. Debts that a particular corporation routinely enters into in the ordinary course of its acquisition of assets used or held for use in its trade or business will not be considered to be entered into for the principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 897, 1445, or 6039C.


(3) *Fair market value of leases and options.* For purposes of sections 897, 1445, and 6039C, the fair market value of a leasehold interest in real property is the price at which the lease could be assigned or the property sublet, neither party to such transaction being under any compulsion to enter into the transaction and both having reasonable knowledge of all relevant facts. Thus, the value of a leasehold interest will generally consist of the present value, over the period of the lease remaining, of the difference between the rental provided for in the lease and the current rental value of the real property. A leasehold interest bearing restrictions on its assignment or sublease has a fair market value of zero, but only if those restrictions in practical effect preclude (rather than merely condition) the lessee's ability to transfer, at a gain, the benefits of a favorable lease. The normal commercial practice of lessors may be used to determine whether restrictions in a lease have the practical effect of precluding transfer at a gain. The fair market value of an option to purchase any property is, similarly, the price at which the option could be sold, consisting generally of the difference between the option price and the fair market value of the property, taking proper account of any restrictions upon the transfer of the option.


(4) *Fair market value of intangible assets.* For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a U.S. real property holding corporation, the fair market value of intangible assets described in § 1.897-1(f)(1)(ii) may be determined in accordance with the following rules.


(i) *Purchase price.* Intangible assets described in § 1.897-1(f)(1)(ii) that were acquired by purchase from a person not related to the purchaser within the meaning of § 1.897-1(i) may be valued at their purchase price. However, such purchase price must be adjusted to reflect any amortization required by generally accepted accounting principles applied in the United States. Intangible assets acquired by purchase shall include any amounts allocated to goodwill or going concern valued pursuant to section 338(b)(3) and regulations thereunder. Intangible assets acquired by purchase shall not include assets that were acquired indirectly through an acquisition of stock to which section 338 does not apply. Such assets must be value pursuant to a method described in subdivision (ii) or (iii) of this paragraph (o)(4).


(ii) *Book value.* Intangible assets described in § 1.897-1(f)(1)(ii) (other than good will and going concern value) may be valued at the amount at which such assets are carried on the financial accounting records of the holder of such assets, provided that such amount is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied in the United States. However, this method may not be used with respect to assets acquired by purchase from a related person within the meaning of § 1.897-1(i).


(iii) *Other methods.* Intangible assets described in § 1.897-1(f)(1)(ii) may be valued pursuant to any other reasonable method at an amount reflecting the price at which the asset would change hands between an unrelated willing buyer and willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy or to sell and both having reasonable knowledge of all relevant facts. However, a corporation that uses a method of valuation other than the purchase price or book value methods may be required to comply with the special notification requirements of § 1.897-2(h)(1)(iii)(A).


(p) *Identifying number.* The “identifying number” of an individual is the individual's United States social security number or the identification number assigned by the Internal Revenue Service (see § 301.6109-1 of this chapter). The “identifying number” of any other person is its United States employer identification number.



---

[N] [T.D. 7999, 49 FR 50693, Dec. 31, 1984; 50 FR 12530, Mar. 29, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8113, 51 FR 46626, Dec. 24, 1986; T.D. 8198, 53 FR 16217, May 5, 1988; T.D. 8657, 61 FR 9343, Mar. 8, 1996; 61 FR 14248, Apr. 1, 1996; T.D. 9082, 68 FR 46082, Aug. 5, 2003; T.D. 9992, 89 FR 31626, Apr. 25, 2024; T.D. 9992, 89 FR 105451, Dec. 27, 2024]




