# ยง 302-3.427   What relocation allowances may my agency pay when I am permanently assigned to my temporary official station?

When you are permanently assigned to your temporary official station, your agency may pay: 


(a) Travel, including per diem, in accordance with part 302-4 of this chapter, for one round trip between your temporary official station and your previous official station, for you and members of your immediate family who relocated to the temporary official station with you. Your agency may also pay the same expenses for a one-way trip from the previous official station to the new permanent official station for any immediate family members who did not accompany you to the temporary official station; 


(b) Residence transaction expenses under part 302-11 of this chapter; 


(c) Property management expenses under part 302-15 of this chapter; 


(d) Relocation services under part 302-12 of this chapter; 


(e) Temporary quarters subsistence expenses in accordance with part 302-6 of this chapter; 


(f) Transportation of household goods not previously transported to the temporary official station under part 302-7 of this chapter; 


(g) Transportation of a privately owned vehicle(s) not previously transported to the temporary official station under ยง 302-9.7 of this chapter; and


(h) Relocation income tax allowance (RITA) under part 302-17 of this chapter.



---

[N] [FTR Amdt. 98, 66 FR 58196, Nov. 20, 2001, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2011-06, 76 FR 71889, Nov. 21, 2011; 86 FR 73684, Dec. 28, 2021]




