# ยง 102.61   Contents of petition for certification; contents of petition for decertification; contents of petition for clarification of bargaining unit; contents of petition for amendment of certification.

(a) *RC petitions.* A petition for certification, when filed by an employee or group of employees or an individual or labor organization acting in their behalf, shall contain the following:


(1) The name of the employer.


(2) The address of the establishments involved.


(3) The general nature of the employer's business.


(4) A description of the bargaining unit which the petitioner claims to be appropriate.


(5) The names and addresses of any other persons or labor organizations who claim to represent any employees in the alleged appropriate unit, and brief descriptions of the contracts, if any, covering the employees in such unit.


(6) The number of employees in the alleged appropriate unit.


(7) A statement that a substantial number of employees in the described unit wish to be represented by the petitioner. Evidence supporting the statement shall be filed with the petition in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, but shall not be served on any party.


(8) A statement that the employer declines to recognize the petitioner as the representative within the meaning of Section 9(a) of the Act or that the labor organization is currently recognized but desires certification under the Act.


(9) The name, affiliation, if any, and address of the petitioner, and the name, title, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the individual who will serve as the representative of the petitioner and accept service of all papers for purposes of the representation proceeding.


(10) Whether a strike or picketing is in progress at the establishment involved and, if so, the approximate number of employees participating, and the date such strike or picketing commenced.


(11) Any other relevant facts.


(12) The type, date(s), time(s) and location(s) of the election sought.


(b) *RM petitions.* A petition for certification, when filed by an employer, shall contain the following:


(1) The name and address of the petitioner, and the name, title, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the individual who will serve as the representative of the petitioner and accept service of all papers for purposes of the representation proceeding.


(2) The general nature of the petitioner's business.


(3) A brief statement setting forth that one or more individuals or labor organizations have presented to the petitioner a claim to be recognized as the exclusive representative of all employees in the unit claimed to be appropriate; a description of such unit; and the number of employees in the unit.


(4) The name or names, affiliation, if any, and addresses of the individuals or labor organizations making such claim for recognition.


(5) A statement whether the petitioner has contracts with any labor organization or other representatives of employees and, if so, their expiration date(s).


(6) Whether a strike or picketing is in progress at the establishment involved and, if so, the approximate number of employees participating, and the date such strike or picketing commenced.


(7) Any other relevant facts.


(8) Evidence supporting the statement that a labor organization has made a demand for recognition on the employer or that the employer has good faith uncertainty about majority support for an existing representative. Such evidence shall be filed together with the petition, but if the evidence reveals the names and/or number of employees who no longer wish to be represented, the evidence shall not be served on any party. However, no proof of representation on the part of the labor organization claiming a majority is required and the Regional Director shall proceed with the case if other factors require it unless the labor organization withdraws its claim to majority representation.


(9) The type, date(s), time(s) and location(s) of the election sought.


(c) *RD petitions.* Petitions for decertification shall contain the following:


(1) The name of the employer.


(2) The address of the establishments and a description of the bargaining unit involved.


(3) The general nature of the employer's business.


(4) The name and address of the petitioner and affiliation, if any, and the name, title, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the individual who will serve as the representative of the petitioner and accept service of all papers for purposes of the representation proceeding.


(5) The name or names and addresses of the individuals or labor organizations who have been certified or are being currently recognized by the employer and who claim to represent any employees in the unit involved, and the expiration date of any contracts covering such employees.


(6) An allegation that the individuals or labor organizations who have been certified or are currently recognized by the employer are no longer the representative in the appropriate unit as defined in Section 9(a) of the Act.


(7) The number of employees in the unit.


(8) A statement that a substantial number of employees in the described unit no longer wish to be represented by the incumbent representative. Evidence supporting the statement shall be filed with the petition in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, but shall not be served on any party.


(9) Whether a strike or picketing is in progress at the establishment involved and, if so, the approximate number of employees participating, and the date such strike or picketing commenced.


(10) Any other relevant facts.


(11) The type, date(s), time(s) and location(s) of the election sought.


(d) *UC petitions.* A petition for clarification shall contain the following:


(1) The name of the employer and the name of the recognized or certified bargaining representative.


(2) The address of the establishment involved.


(3) The general nature of the employer's business.


(4) A description of the present bargaining unit, and, if the bargaining unit is certified, an identification of the existing certification.


(5) A description of the proposed clarification.


(6) The names and addresses of any other persons or labor organizations who claim to represent any employees affected by the proposed clarifications, and brief descriptions of the contracts, if any, covering any such employees.


(7) The number of employees in the present bargaining unit and in the unit as proposed under the clarification.


(8) The job classifications of employees as to whom the issue is raised, and the number of employees in each classification.


(9) A statement by petitioner setting forth reasons why petitioner desires clarification of unit.


(10) The name, the affiliation, if any, and the address of the petitioner, and the name, title, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the individual who will serve as the representative of the petitioner and accept service of all papers for purposes of the representation proceeding.


(11) Any other relevant facts.


(e) *AC petitions.* A petition for amendment of certification shall contain the following:


(1) The name of the employer and the name of the certified union involved.


(2) The address of the establishment involved.


(3) The general nature of the employer's business.


(4) Identification and description of the existing certification.


(5) A statement by petitioner setting forth the details of the desired amendment and reasons therefor.


(6) The names and addresses of any other persons or labor organizations who claim to represent any employees in the unit covered by the certification and brief descriptions of the contracts, if any, covering the employees in such unit.


(7) The name, the affiliation, if any, and the address of the petitioner, and the name, title, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the individual who will serve as the representative of the petitioner and accept service of all papers for purposes of the representation proceeding.


(8) Any other relevant facts.


(f) *Provision of original signatures.* Evidence filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(7), (b)(8), or (c)(8) of this section together with a petition that is filed by facsimile or electronically, which includes original signatures that cannot be transmitted in their original form by the method of filing of the petition, may be filed by facsimile or in electronic form provided that the original documents are received by the Regional Director no later than 2 business days after the facsimile or electronic filing.



---

[N] [84 FR 69588, Dec. 18, 2019]






