# ยง 97.72   Out of control periods.

(a) Whenever any emission monitoring system fails to meet the quality assurance or data validation requirements of part 75 of this chapter, data shall be substituted using the applicable procedures in subpart D, subpart H, appendix D, or appendix E of part 75 of this chapter. 


(b) *Audit decertification.* Whenever both an audit of an emission monitoring system and a review of the initial certification or recertification application reveal that any system should not have been certified or recertified because it did not meet a particular performance specification or other requirement under ยง 97.71 or the applicable provisions of part 75 of this chapter, both at the time of the initial certification or recertification application submission and at the time of the audit, the Administrator will issue a notice of disapproval of the certification status of such system. For the purposes of this paragraph, an audit shall be either a field audit or an audit of any information submitted to the permitting authority or the Administrator. By issuing the notice of disapproval, the Administrator revokes prospectively the certification status of the system. The data measured and recorded by the system shall not be considered valid quality-assured data from the date of issuance of the notification of the revoked certification status until the date and time that the owner or operator completes subsequently approved initial certification or recertification tests for the system. The owner or operator shall follow the initial certification or recertification procedures in ยง 97.71 for each disapproved system.



---

[N] [65 FR 2727, Jan. 18, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 21648, Apr. 21, 2004]




