# § 291.1   Program description.

(a) In accordance with the provisions of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. § 272(b)(1) and (c)(3) and § 2781), as amended, NIST will provide financial assistance to integrate environmentally-related services and resources into the national manufacturing extension system. This assistance will be provided by NIST often in cooperation with the EPA. Under the NIST Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), NIST will periodically make merit-based awards to existing MEP manufacturing extension affiliates for integration of environmental services into extension centers and to non-profit organizations for development of environmentally-related tools and techniques. In addition, NIST will initiate pilot centers providing environmental information for specific industrial sectors to be specified in solicitations. MEP assumes a broad definition of manufacturing, and recognizes a wide range of technology and concepts, including durable goods production; chemical, biotechnology, and other materials processing; electronic component and system fabrication; and engineering services associated with manufacturing, as lying within the definition of manufacturing.


(b) *Announcements of solicitations.* Announcements of solicitations will be made in the Commerce Business Daily. Specific information on the level of funding available and the deadline for proposals will be contained in that announcement. In addition, any specific industry sectors or types of tools and techniques to be focused on will be specified in the announcement.


(c) *Proposal workshops.* Prior to an announcement of solicitation, NIST may announce opportunities for potential applicants to learn about these projects through workshops. The time and place of the workshop(s) will be contained in a Commerce Business Daily announcement.


(d) *Indirect costs.* The total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less.


(e) *Proposal format.* The Proposal must not exceed 20 typewritten pages in length for integration proposals. Proposals for tools and techniques projects and national information centers must not exceed 30 pages in length. The proposal must contain both technical and cost information. The Proposal page count shall include every page, including pages that contain words, table of contents, executive summary, management information and qualifications, resumes, figures, tables, and pictures. All proposals shall be printed such that pages are single-sided, with no more than fifty-five (55) lines per page. Use 21.6 × 27.9 cm (8
1/2″ × 11″) paper or A4 metric paper. Use an easy-to-read font of not more than about 5 characters per cm (fixed pitch font of 12 or fewer characters per inch or proportional font of point size 10 or larger). Smaller type may be used in figures and tables, but must be clearly legible. Margins on all sides (top, bottom, left and right) must be at least 2.5 cm. (1″). The applicant may submit a separately bound document of appendices, containing letters of support for the Basic Proposal. The basic proposal should be self-contained and not rely on the appendices for meeting criteria. Excess pages in the Proposal will not be considered in the evaluation. Applicants must submit one signed original plus six copies of the proposal along with Standard Form 424, 424A (Rev 4/92) and Form CD-511.


(f) *Content of basic proposal.* The Basic Proposal must, at a minimum, include the following:


(1) An executive summary summarizing the planned project consistent with the Evaluation Criteria stated in this notice.


(2) A description of the planned project sufficient to permit evaluation of the proposal in accordance with the proposal Evaluation Criteria stated in this notice.


(3) A budget for the project which identifies all sources of funds and which breaks out planned expenditures by both activity and object class (e.g., personnel, travel, etc.).


(4) A description of the qualifications of key personnel who will be assigned to work on the proposed project.


(5) A statement of work that discusses the specific tasks to be carried out, including a schedule of measurable events and milestones.


(6) A Standard Form 424, 424A (Rev 4-92) prescribed by the applicable OMB circular and Form CD-511, Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying. SF-424, 424A (Rev 4-92) and Form CD-511 will not be considered part of the page count of the Basic Proposal.


(7) The application requirements and the standard form requirements have been approved by OMB (OMB Control Number 0693-0010, 0348-0043 and 0348-0044).


(g) *Applicable federal and departmental guidance.* This includes: Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audits. [Dependent upon type of Recipient organization: nonprofit, for-profit, state/local government, or educational institution]


(1) *Nonprofit organizations.*

(i) OMB Circular A-110—Uniform Administrative Requirements of Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations.


(ii) OMB Circular A-122—Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations.


(iii) 15 CFR part 29b—Audit Requirements for Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Organizations [implements OMB Circular A-133—Audits for Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Organizations].


(2) *State/local governments.*

(i) 15 CFR part 24—Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.


(ii) OMB Circular A-87—Cost Principles for State and Local Governments.


(iii) 15 CFR part 29a—Audit Requirements for State and Local Governments [implements OMB Circular A-128—Audit of State and Local Governments].


(3) *Educational institutions.*

(i) OMB Circular A-110—Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations.


(ii) OMB Circular A-21—Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.


(iii) 15 CFR part 29b—Audit Requirements for Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Organizations [implements OMB Circular A-133—Audits for Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Organizations].




