# § 982.627   Homeownership option: Eligibility requirements for families.

(a) *Determination whether family is qualified.* The PHA may not provide homeownership assistance for a family unless the PHA determines that the family satisfies all of the following initial requirements at commencement of homeownership assistance for the family: 


(1) The family has been admitted to the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program, in accordance with subpart E of this part. 


(2) The family satisfies any first-time homeowner requirements (described in paragraph (b) of this section). 


(3) The family satisfies the minimum income requirement (described in paragraph (c) of this section). 


(4) The family satisfies the employment requirements (described in paragraph (d) of this section). 


(5) The family has not defaulted on a mortgage securing debt to purchase a home under the homeownership option (see paragraph (e) of this section). 


(6) Except for cooperative members who have acquired cooperative membership shares prior to commencement of homeownership assistance, no family member has a present ownership interest in a residence at the commencement of homeownership assistance for the purchase of any home. 


(7) Except for cooperative members who have acquired cooperative membership shares prior to the commencement of homeownership assistance, the family has entered a contract of sale in accordance with § 982.631(c). 


(8) The family also satisfies any other initial requirements established by the PHA (see § 982.626(b)). Any such additional requirements must be described in the PHA Administrative Plan. 


(b) *First-time homeowner requirements.* At commencement of homeownership assistance for the family, the family must be any of the following: 


(1) A first-time homeowner (defined at § 982.4); 


(2) A cooperative member (defined at § 982.4); or 


(3) A family of which a family member is a person with disabilities, and use of the homeownership option is needed as a reasonable accommodation so that the program is readily accessible to and usable by such person, in accordance with part 8 of this title. 


(c) *Minimum income requirements.* (1) At commencement of monthly homeownership assistance payments for the family, or at the time of a downpayment assistance grant for the family, the family must demonstrate that the annual income, as determined by the PHA in accordance with § 5.609 of this title, of the adult family members who will own the home at commencement of homeownership assistance is not less than: 


(i) In the case of a disabled family (as defined in § 5.403(b) of this title), the monthly Federal Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefit for an individual living alone (or paying his or her share of food and housing costs) multiplied by twelve; or 


(ii) In the case of other families, the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 2,000 hours. 


(2)(i) Except in the case of an elderly family or a disabled family (see the definitions of these terms at § 5.403(b) of this title), the PHA shall not count any welfare assistance received by the family in determining annual income under this section. 


(ii) The disregard of welfare assistance income under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section only affects the determination of minimum annual income used to determine if a family initially qualifies for commencement of homeownership assistance in accordance with this section, but does not affect: 


(A) The determination of income-eligibility for admission to the voucher program; 


(B) Calculation of the amount of the family's total tenant payment (gross family contribution); or 


(C) Calculation of the amount of homeownership assistance payments on behalf of the family. 


(iii) In the case of an elderly or disabled family, the PHA shall include welfare assistance for the adult family members who will own the home in determining if the family meets the minimum income requirement.


(3) A PHA may establish a minimum income standard that is higher than those described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for either or both types of families. However, a family that meets the applicable HUD minimum income requirement described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but not the higher standard established by the PHA shall be considered to satisfy the minimum income requirement if:


(i) The family demonstrates that it has been pre-qualified or pre-approved for financing;


(ii) The pre-qualified or pre-approved financing meets any PHA established requirements under § 982.632 for financing the purchase of the home (including qualifications of lenders and terms of financing); and


(iii) The pre-qualified or pre-approved financing amount is sufficient to purchase housing that meets HQS in the PHA's jurisdiction.


(d) *Employment requirements.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the family must demonstrate that one or more adult members of the family who will own the home at commencement of homeownership assistance: 


(i) Is currently employed on a full-time basis (the term “full-time employment” means not less than an average of 30 hours per week); and


(ii) Has been continuously so employed during the year before commencement of homeownership assistance for the family. 


(2) The PHA shall have discretion to determine whether and to what extent interruptions are considered to break continuity of employment during the year. The PHA may count successive employment during the year. The PHA may count self-employment in a business. 


(3) The employment requirement does not apply to an elderly family or a disabled family (see the definitions of these terms at § 5.403(b) of this title). Furthermore, if a family, other than an elderly family or a disabled family, includes a person with disabilities, the PHA shall grant an exemption from the employment requirement if the PHA determines that an exemption is needed as a reasonable accommodation so that the program is readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities in accordance with part 8 of this title. 


(4) A PHA may not establish an employment requirement in addition to the employment standard established by this paragraph. 


(e) *Prohibition against assistance to family that has defaulted.* The PHA shall not commence homeownership assistance for a family that includes an individual who was an adult member of a family at the time when such family received homeownership assistance and defaulted on a mortgage securing debt incurred to purchase the home.



---

[N] [65 FR 55163, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 64493, Oct. 18, 2002; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015]










