# § 552.25   Entry regulations for certain Army training areas in Hawaii.

(a) *Purpose.* (1) This regulation establishes procedures governing the entry onto certain Army training areas in Hawaii as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) These procedures have been established to prevent the interruption of the use of these Army training areas by any person or persons. The continued and uninterrupted use of these training areas by the military is vital in order to maintain and to improve the combat readiness of the U.S. Armed Forces. In addition, conditions exist within these training areas which could be dangerous to any unauthorized persons who enter these areas. 


(b) *Applicability.* The procedures outlined in this regulation apply to all individuals except for soldiers and Army civilians of the United States who in performance of their official duties enter the training areas defined in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(c) *References.* Related publications are listed below: 


(1) Executive Order No. 11166 of 15 August 1964. (3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., pp 219-220). 


(2) Executive Order No. 11167 of 15 August 1964. (3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., pp 220-222). 


(3) Title 18, United States Code, section 1382. 


(4) Internal Security Act of 1950, section 21 (50 U.S.C. 797). 


(d) *Definition.* For the purpose of this regulation, “certain Army training areas in Hawaii” are defined as follows: 


(1) Makua Valley, Waianae, Oahu, Hawaii: That area reserved for military use by Executive Order No. 11166 (paragraph (c)(1) of this section). 


(2) Pohakuloa Training Area, Hawaii: That area reserved for military use by Executive Order No. 11167 (paragraph (c)(2) of this section). 


(e) *Procedures.* (1) Except for soldiers and Army civilians of the United States in the performance of their duties, entry onto Army training areas described in paragraph (d) of this section for any purpose whatsoever without the advance consent of the Commander, United States Army Support Command, Hawaii, or his authorized representative, is prohibited (paragraph (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section). 


(2) Any person or group of persons desiring the advance consent of the Commander, United States Army Support Command, Hawaii, shall, in writing, submit a request to the following address: Commander, USASCH, ATTN: Chief of Staff, Fort Shafter, Hawaii 96858-5000. 


(3) Each request for entry will be considered on an individual basis weighing the operational and training commitments of the area involved, security, and safety with the purpose, size of party, duration of visit, destination, and the military resources which would be required by the granting of the request. 


(f) *Violations.* (1) Any person entering or remaining upon any training area described in paragraph (d) without the advance consent of the Commander, USASCH, or his authorized representative, shall be subject to the penalties prescribed by paragraph (c)(3) of this section, which provides in pertinent part: “Whoever, within the jurisdiction of the United States, goes upon any military, naval * * * reservation, post, fort, arsenal, yard, station, or installation, for any purpose prohibited by law or lawful regulation * * * shall be fined not more than $500.00 or imprisoned not more than 6 months or both.” 


(2) Moreover, any person who willfully violates this regulation is subject to a fine not to exceed $5,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than 1 year or both as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. 


(3) In addition, violation of this regulation by persons subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. 801-940) is a violation of Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 



---

[N] [52 FR 44393, Nov. 19, 1987]




