# § 1.52-3   Limitations with respect to certain persons.

(a) *Mutual savings institutions.* In the case of an organization to which section 593 applies (that is, a mutual savings bank, a cooperative bank or a domestic building and loan association), the amount of the targeted jobs credit (new jobs credit in the case of wages paid before 1979) allowable under section 44B shall be 50 percent of the amount otherwise determined under section 51, or, in the case of an organization under common control, under § 1.52-1 (a) and (b).


(b) *Regulated investment companies and real estate investment trusts.* In the case of a regulated investment company or a real estate investment trust subject to taxation under subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code, the amount of the targeted jobs credit (new jobs credit in the case of wages paid before 1979) allowable under section 44B shall be reduced to the company's or trust's ratable share of the credit. The ratable share shall be determined in accordance with rules similar to the rules provided in section 46(e)(2)(B) and the regulations thereunder. For purposes of computing the ratable share, the reduction of the deduction for wage or salary expenses under § 1.280C-1 shall not be taken into account. 


(c) *Cooperatives*—(1) *Taxable years ending after October 31, 1978.* For taxable years ending after October 31, 1978, in the case of a cooperative organization described in section 1381(a), rules similar to rules provided in section 46(h) and the regulations thereunder shall apply in determining the distribution of the amount of the targeted jobs credit (new jobs credit in the case of wages paid before 1979) allowable to the cooperative organization and its patrons under section 44B.


(2) *Taxable years ending before November 1, 1978.* For taxable years ending before November 1, 1978, in the case of a cooperative organization described in section 1381(a), the amount of new jobs credit allowable under section 44B shall be reduced to the cooperative's ratable share of the credit. The ratable share shall be the ratio which the taxable income of the cooperative for the taxable year bears to its taxable income increased by the amount of the deductions allowed under section 1382 (b) and (c). For purposes of computing the ratable share, the reduction of the deduction for wage or salary expenses under § 1.280C-1 shall not be taken into account.



---

[N] [T.D. 7921, 48 FR 52906, Nov. 23, 1983]




