# ยง 571.404   Standard No. 404; Platform lift installations in motor vehicles.

S1. *Scope.* This standard specifies requirements for vehicles equipped with platform lifts used to assist persons with limited mobility in entering or leaving a vehicle.


S2. *Purpose.* The purpose of this standard is to prevent injuries and fatalities to passengers and bystanders during the operation of platform lifts installed in motor vehicles.


S3 *Application.* This standard applies to motor vehicles manufactured on and after July 1, 2005, that are equipped with a platform lift designed to carry standing passengers who may be aided by canes or walkers, as well as persons seated in wheelchairs, scooters, and other mobility aids, into and out of the vehicle.


S4. *Requirements.*

S4.1 *Installation requirements.*

S4.1.1 Lift-equipped buses, school buses, and MPVs other than motor homes with a GVWR greater than 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) must be equipped with a public use lift certified as meeting Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 403, Lift Systems for Motor Vehicles (49 CFR 571.403).


S4.1.2 Lift-equipped motor vehicles, other than ones subject to paragraph S4.1.1, must be equipped with a platform lift certified as meeting either the public use lift or private use lift requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 403, Lift Systems for Motor Vehicles (49 CFR 571.403).


S4.1.3 Platform lifts must be installed in the vehicle in accordance with the installation instructions or procedures provided pursuant to S6.13 of Standard 403. The vehicle must be of a type identified in the installation instructions as appropriate for the platform lift as certified by the platform lift manufacturer.


S4.1.4 The platform lift, as installed, must continue to comply with all the applicable requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 403, Lift Systems for Motor Vehicles (49 CFR 571.403).


S4.1.5 *Platform Lighting on public use lifts.* Public-use lifts must be provided with a light or set of lights that provide at least 22 lm/m
2 or 22 Lux (2 lm/ft
2 or 2 foot-candles) of illumination on all portions of the surface of the platform when the platform is at the vehicle floor level. Additionally, a light or set of lights must provide at least 11 lm/m
2 or 11 Lux (1 lm/ft
2 or 1 foot-candle) of illumination on all portions of the surface of the platform and all portions of the surface of the passenger-unloading ramp at ground level. In preparation for taking illumination measurements, operate the vehicle engine by idling or driving the test vehicle, with the vehicle's HVAC system turned off, for a minimum of 20 minutes, after which the engine is turned off. Illumination measurements are then recorded no later than 10 minutes after the time the engine is turned off, with the vehicle in a location where there is no apparent ambient light, and with the sensing element of the measuring device within 50 mm (2 inches) of the platform surface being measured.


S4.2 *Vehicle owner's manual insert requirements.* If the vehicle is equipped with an owner's manual, the owner's manual must contain the inserts provided by the lift manufacturer pursuant to S6.12 of 49 CFR 571.403. 


S4.3 *Control panel switches.*

S4.3.1 Instructions regarding the platform lift operating procedures, including backup operations, as specified by S6.7.8 of 49 CFR 571.403, must be permanently affixed to a location adjacent to the controls.


S4.3.2 *Public use lift*: In addition to meeting the requirements of S4.3.1, for vehicles equipped with public use lifts, as defined in 49 CFR 571.403, any and all controls provided for the lift by the platform lift manufacturer other than those provided for back-up operation of the platform lift specified in S5.9 of 49 CFR 571.403, must be located together and in a position such that the control operator has a direct, unobstructed view of the platform lift passenger and/or their mobility aid throughout the lift's range of passenger operation. Additional power controls and controls for back-up operation of the lift may be located in other positions.



---

[N] [67 FR 79451, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 58855, Oct. 1, 2004; 69 FR 76870, Dec. 23, 2004; 77 FR 20571, Apr. 5, 2012]




