# § 15.713   White space database.

(a) *Purpose.* The white space database serves the following functions:


(1) To determine and provide to a white space device, upon request, the available channels at the white space device's location in the TV bands, the 600 MHz duplex gap, the 600 MHz service band, and 608-614 MHz (channel 37). Available channels are determined based on the interference protection requirements in § 15.712. A database must provide fixed, mobile, and Mode II personal portable white space devices with channel availability information that includes scheduled changes in channel availability over the course of the 48-hour period beginning at the time the white space devices make a recheck contact. In making lists of available channels available to a white space device, the white space database shall ensure that all communications and interactions between the white space database and the white space device include adequate security measures such that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the white space database or the list of available channels sent to white space devices or otherwise affect the database system or white space devices in performing their intended functions or in providing adequate interference protections to authorized services operating in the TV bands, the 600 MHz duplex gap, the 600 MHz service band, and 608-614 MHz (channel 37). In addition, a white space database must also verify that the FCC identifier (FCC ID) of a device seeking access to its services is valid; under the requirement in this paragraph (a)(1) the white space database must also verify that the FCC ID of a Mode I device provided by a fixed or Mode II device is valid. A list of devices with valid FCC IDs and the FCC IDs of those devices is to be obtained from the Commission's Equipment Authorization System.




(2) [Reserved]




(3) To register the identification information and location of fixed white space devices.






(4) To register protected locations and channels as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that are not otherwise recorded in Commission licensing databases.




(b) *Information in the white space database.* (1) Facilities already recorded in Commission databases. Identifying and location information will come from the official Commission database. These services include:


(i) Digital television stations.


(ii) Class A television stations.


(iii) Low power television stations.


(iv) Television translator and booster stations.


(v) Broadcast Auxiliary Service stations (including receive only sites), except low power auxiliary stations.


(vi) Private land mobile radio service stations.


(vii) Commercial mobile radio service stations.


(viii) Offshore radiotelephone service stations.


(ix) Class A television station receive sites.


(x) Low power television station receive sites.


(xi) Television translator station receive sites.


(2) Facilities that are not recorded in Commission databases. Identifying and location information will be entered into the white space database in accordance with the procedures established by the white space database administrator(s). These include:


(i) MVPD receive sites.


(ii) Sites where low power auxiliary stations, including wireless microphones and wireless assist video devices, are used and their schedule for operation.


(iii) Fixed white space device registrations.


(iv) 600 MHz service band operations in areas where the part 27 600 MHz service licensee has commenced operations, as defined in § 27.4 of this chapter.


(v) Locations of health care facilities that use WMTS equipment operating on channel 37 (608-614 MHz).


(c) *Restrictions on registration.* (1) Television translator, low power TV and Class A station receive sites within the protected contour of the station being received are not eligible for registration in the database.


(2) MVPD receive sites within the protected contour or more than 80 kilometers from the nearest edge of the protected contour of a television station being received are not eligible to register that station's channel in the database.


(d) *Determination of available channels.* The white space database will determine the available channels at a location using the interference protection requirements of § 15.712, the location information supplied by a white space device, and the data for protected stations/locations in the database.






(e) *White space device initialization.* (1) Fixed, mobile, and Mode II white space devices must provide their location and required identifying information to the white space database in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.


(2) Fixed, mobile, and Mode II white space devices shall not transmit unless they receive, from the white space database, a list of available channels and may only transmit on the available channels on the list provided by the database.


(3) Fixed and mobile white space devices register and receive a list of available channels from the database by connecting to the internet, either directly or through another fixed white space device that has a direct connection to the internet. Fixed devices must also register with the database in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(4) Mode II white space devices receive a list of available channels from the database by connecting to the Internet, either directly or through a fixed or Mode II white space device that has a direct connection to the Internet.


(5) A fixed or Mode II white space device that provides a list of available channels to a Mode I device shall notify the database of the FCC identifier of such Mode I device and receive verification that that FCC identifier is valid before providing the list of available channels to the Mode I device.


(6) A fixed device with an antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) that exceeds 250 meters generally, or 500 meters in less congested areas, shall not be provided a list of available channels. The HAAT is to be calculated using computational software employing the methodology in § 73.684(d) of this chapter.










(f) [Reserved]

(g) *Fixed white space device registration.* (1) Prior to operating for the first time or after changing location, a fixed white space device must register with the white space database by providing the information listed in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(2) The party responsible for a fixed white space device must ensure that the white space device registration database has the most current, up-to-date information for that device.


(3) The white space device registration database shall contain the following information for fixed white space devices:


(i) FCC identifier (FCC ID) of the device;


(ii) Manufacturer's serial number of the device;


(iii) Device's geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude (NAD 83));


(iv) Device's antenna height above ground level (meters);


(v) Name of the individual or business that owns the device;


(vi) Name of a contact person responsible for the device's operation;


(vii) Address for the contact person;


(viii) Email address for the contact person;


(ix) Phone number for the contact person.


(h) *Mode II personal/portable and mobile device information to database.* (1) A mobile device and a personal/portable device operating in Mode II shall provide the database its FCC Identifier (as required by § 2.926 of this chapter) and serial number as assigned by the manufacturer.


(2) A personal/portable device operating in Mode II shall provide the database the device's geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude (NAD 83)).


(3) A mobile device shall provide the database with the boundaries of the geo-fenced area in which it will operate. Alternatively, the boundaries of the geo-fenced area may be loaded from the database into the mobile device.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *White space database information.* The white space database shall contain the listed information for each of the following:


(1) Digital television stations, digital and analog Class A, low power, translator and booster stations, including stations in Canada and Mexico that are within the border coordination areas as specified in § 73.1650 of this chapter (a white space database is to include only TV station information from station license or license application records. In cases where a station has records for both a license application and a license, a white space database should include the information from the license application rather than the license. In cases where there are multiple license application records or license records for the same station, the database is to include the most recent records, and again with license applications taking precedence over licenses.):


(i) Transmitter coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83);


(ii) radiated power (ERP);


(iii) Height above average terrain of the transmitting antenna (HAAT);


(iv) Horizontal transmit antenna pattern (if the antenna is directional);


(v) Amount of electrical and mechanical beam tilt (degrees depression below horizontal) and orientation of mechanical beam tilt (degrees azimuth clockwise from true north);


(vi) Channel number; and


(vii) Station call sign.


(2) Broadcast Auxiliary Service.


(i) Transmitter coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83).


(ii) Receiver coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83).


(iii) Channel number.


(iv) Call sign.


(3) Metropolitan areas listed in § 90.303(a) of this chapter.


(i) Region name.


(ii) Channel(s) reserved for use in the region.


(iii) Geographic center of the region (latitude and longitude in NAD 83).


(iv) Call sign.


(4) PLMRS/CMRS base station operations located more than 80 km from the geographic centers of the 13 metropolitan areas defined in § 90.303(a) of this chapter (e.g., in accordance with a waiver).


(i) Transmitter location (latitude and longitude in NAD 83) or geographic area of operations.


(ii) TV channel of operation.


(iii) Call sign.


(5) Offshore Radiotelephone Service: For each of the four regions where the Offshore Radiotelephone Service operates.


(i) Geographic boundaries of the region (latitude and longitude in NAD 83 for each point defining the boundary of the region.


(ii) Channel(s) used by the service in that region.


(6) MVPD receive sites: Registration for receive sites is limited to channels that are received over-the-air and are used as part of the MVPD service.


(i) Name and address of MVPD company;


(ii) Location of the MVPD receive site (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to ±50 m);


(iii) Channel number of each television channel received, subject to the following condition: channels for which the MVPD receive site is located within the protected contour of that channel's transmitting station are not eligible for registration in the database;


(iv) Call sign of each television channel received and eligible for registration;


(v) Location (latitude and longitude) of the transmitter of each television channel received;


(7) Television translator, low power TV and Class A TV station receive sites: Registration for television translator, low power TV and Class A receive sites is limited to channels that are received over-the-air and are used as part of the station's service.


(i) Call sign of the TV translator station;


(ii) Location of the TV translator receive site (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to ±/− 50 m);


(iii) Channel number of the re-transmitted television station, subject to the following condition: a channel for which the television translator receive site is located within the protected contour of that channel's transmitting station is not eligible for registration in the database;


(iv) Call sign of the retransmitted television station; and


(v) Location (latitude and longitude) of the transmitter of the retransmitted television station.


(8) Licensed low power auxiliary stations, including wireless microphones and wireless assist video devices: Use of licensed low power auxiliary stations at well-defined times and locations may be registered in the database. Multiple registrations that specify more than one point in the facility may be entered for very large sites. Registrations will be valid for no more than one year, after which they may be renewed. Registrations must include the following information:


(i) Name of the individual or business responsible for the low power auxiliary device(s);


(ii) An address for the contact person;


(iii) An email address for the contact person (optional);


(iv) A phone number for the contact person;


(v) Coordinates where the device(s) are used (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to ±50 m);


(vi) Channels used by the low power auxiliary devices operated at the site;


(vii) Specific months, weeks, days of the week and times when the device(s) are used (on dates when microphones are not used the site will not be protected); and


(viii) The stations call sign.


(9) [Reserved]


(10) 600 MHz service in areas where the part 27 600 MHz band licensee has commenced operations, as defined in § 27.4 of this chapter:


(i) Name of 600 MHz band licensee;


(ii) Name and address of the contact person;


(iii) An email address for the contact person (optional);


(iv) A phone number for the contact person;


(v) Area within a part 27 600 MHz band licensee's Partial Economic Areas (PEA), as defined in § 27.6 of this chapter, where it has commenced operation. This area must be delineated by at minimum of eight and a maximum of 120 geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to ±50 m);


(vi) Date of commencement of operations;


(vii) Identification of the frequencies on which the part 27 600 MHz band licensee has commenced operations;


(viii) Call sign.


(11) Location of health care facilities operating WMTS networks on channel 37 (608-614 MHz):


(i) Name and address of the health care facility;


(ii) Name and address of a contact person;


(iii) Phone number of a contact person;


(iv) Email address of a contact person;


(v) Latitude and longitude coordinates referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD 83) that define the perimeter of each facility. If several health care facilities using 608-614 MHz wireless medical telemetry equipment are located in close proximity, it is permissible to register a perimeter to protect all facilities in that cluster.


(k) *Commission requests for data.* (1) A white space database administrator must provide to the Commission, upon request, any information contained in the database.


(2) A white space database administrator must remove information from the database, upon direction, in writing, by the Commission.


(l) *Security.* The white space database shall employ protocols and procedures to ensure that all communications and interactions between the white space database and white space devices are accurate and secure and that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the database or the list of available channels sent to a white space device.


(1) Communications between white space devices and white space databases, and between different white space databases, shall be secure to prevent corruption or unauthorized interception of data. A white space database shall be protected from unauthorized data input or alteration of stored data.


(2) A white space database shall verify that the FCC identification number supplied by a fixed, mobile, or personal/portable white space device is for a certified device and may not provide service to an uncertified device.


(3) A white space database must not provide lists of available channels to uncertified white space devices for purposes of operation (it is acceptable for a white space database to distribute lists of available channels by means other than contact with white space devices to provide list of channels for operation). To implement this provision, a white space database administrator shall obtain a list of certified white space devices from the FCC Equipment Authorization System.





---

[N] [80 FR 73070, Nov. 23, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4974, Jan. 29, 2016; 82 FR 41559, Sept. 1, 2017; 84 FR 34799, July 19, 2019; 86 FR 2295, Jan. 12, 2021; 88 FR 32692, May 22, 2023; 89 FR 83799, Oct. 18, 2024]




