# ยง 18.2   What definitions do you need to know to understand this part?

In addition to the definitions contained in 36 CFR Part 1, the following definitions apply to this part: 


(a) *Associated property* means land and/or structures (e.g., parking lots, retaining walls, walkways, infrastructure facilities, farm fields) related to a building or buildings and their functional use and occupancy. 


(b) *Building* means an enclosed structure located within the boundaries of a park area and constructed with walls and a roof to serve a residential, industrial, commercial, agricultural or other human use. 


(c) *Commercial use authorization* means a written authorization to provide services to park area visitors issued by the Director pursuant to Section 418 of Public Law 105-391 and implementing regulations. 


(d) *Concession contract* has the meaning stated in 36 CFR part 51. 


(e) *Fair market value rent* means the most probable rent, as of a specific date, in cash or in terms equivalent to cash, for which the property to be leased, under the terms and conditions of the lease, should rent for its highest and best permitted use after reasonable exposure in a competitive market under all conditions requisite to a fair leasing opportunity, with the lessor and the lessee each acting prudently, knowledgeably, and for self-interest, and assuming that neither is under undue duress. Determinations of fair market value rent under this part are to be made taking into account the considerations stated in ยง 18.5. 


(f) *Historic building* means a building or buildings located within the boundaries of a park area if the building is part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places. 


(g) *Historic land* means land located within the boundaries of an historic property. 


(h) *Historic property* means building(s) and land located within the boundaries of a park area if the building(s) and land are part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places. 


(i) *Land* means unimproved real property. 


(j) *Lease* means a written contract entered into under the authority of this part through which use and possession of property is granted to a person for a specified period of time. 


(k) *Non-historic building* is a building (or buildings) and its associated property located within the boundaries of a park area but not part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places. 


(l) *Non-historic land* means land located within the boundaries of a park area that is not associated property and is not part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places. 


(m) *Non-historic property* means building(s) and/or land that are located within the boundaries of a park area but are not part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places. 


(n) *Park area* means a unit of the national park system. 


(o) *Property* means both historic and non-historic property that is located within the boundaries of a park area and is federally owned or administered. 


(p) *Request* for bids refers to the lease bid process described in ยง 18.7. 


(q) *Request for proposals* refers to the lease proposal process described in ยง 18.8. 


(r) *Responsive bid or proposal* means a timely submitted bid or proposal that meets the material requirements of a request for bids or a request for proposals. 




