# § 30.203   Emissions limits.

(a) The conductive power or the total radiated power of any emission outside a licensee's frequency block shall be −13 dBm/MHz or lower. However, in the bands immediately outside and adjacent to the licensee's frequency block, having a bandwidth equal to 10 percent of the channel bandwidth, the conductive power or the total radiated power of any emission shall be −5 dBm/MHz or lower.


(b)(1) Compliance with this provision is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater.


(2) When measuring the emission limits, the nominal carrier frequency shall be adjusted as close to the licensee's frequency block edges as the design permits.


(3) The measurements of emission power can be expressed in peak or average values.


(c) For fixed point-to-point and point-to-multipoint limits see § 30.404.


(d)(1) In addition to the limits noted in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, for licensees operating mobile equipment in the 24.25-24.45 GHz or 24.75-25.25 GHz bands, the maximum conducted output power or the total radiated power of emissions in any 200 MHz of the 23.6-24.0 GHz band shall not exceed −33 dBW (for base stations) or −29 dBW (for mobile stations).


(2) For mobile equipment brought into use after September 1, 2027, the maximum conducted output power or the total radiated power of emissions in any 200 MHz of the 23.6-24.0 GHz band shall not exceed −39 dBW (for base stations) or −35 dBW (for mobile stations). If equipment brought into use on or prior to September 1, 2027 is replaced, or modified in a manner that changes the emissions characteristics of the equipment, the equipment must then comply with the emissions limits in this paragraph (d).



---

[N] [81 FR 79937, Nov. 14, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 100868, Dec. 13, 2024]






