# § 512.310   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply.


*Adjusted ESRD PPS per Treatment Base Rate* means the per treatment payment amount as defined in § 413.230 of this chapter, including patient-level adjustments and facility-level adjustments, and excluding any applicable training adjustment, add-on payment amount, outlier payment amount, transitional drug add-on payment adjustment (TDAPA) amount, and transitional add-on payment adjustment for new and innovative equipment and supplies (TPNIES) amount.


*Benchmark Year* (BY) means the 12-month period that begins 18 months prior to the start of a given measurement year (MY) from which data are used to construct benchmarks against which to score an ETC Participant's achievement and improvement on the home dialysis rate and transplant rate for the purpose of calculating the ETC Participant's MPS.


*Clinical staff* means a licensed social worker or registered dietician/nutrition professional who furnishes services for which payment may be made under the physician fee schedule under the direction of and incident to the services of the Managing Clinician who is an ETC Participant.


*Clinician Home Dialysis Payment Adjustment (Clinician HDPA)* means the payment adjustment to the MCP for a Managing Clinician who is an ETC Participant, for the Managing Clinician's home dialysis claims, as described in §§ 512.345 and 512.350.


*Clinician Performance Payment Adjustment (Clinician PPA)* means the payment adjustment to the MCP for a Managing Clinician who is an ETC Participant based on the Managing Clinician's MPS, as described in §§ 512.375(b) and 512.380.


*Comparison Geographic Area(s)* means those HRRs that are not Selected Geographic Areas.


*ESRD Beneficiary* means a beneficiary who meets any of the following:


(1) Is receiving dialysis or other services for end-stage renal disease, up to and including the month in which the beneficiary receives a kidney transplant up to and including the month in which the beneficiary receives a kidney transplant.


(2) Has already received a kidney transplant and has a non-AKI dialysis or MCP claim at least 12 months after the beneficiary's latest transplant date.


(3) Has a kidney transplant failure less than 12 months after the beneficiary's latest transplant date as identified by:


(i) Two or more MCP claims in the180 days following the date on which the kidney transplant was received;


(ii) 24 or more maintenance dialysis treatments at any time after 180 days following the transplant date; or,


(iii) Indication of a transplant failure after the beneficiary's date of transplant based on data from the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR) database.


(4) If a beneficiary meets more than one of criteria described in paragraphs (3)(i) through (iii) of this definition, the beneficiary will be considered an ESRD beneficiary starting with the earliest month in which transplant failure was recorded.


*ESRD facility* means an ESRD facility as specified in § 413.171 of this chapter.


*ETC Participant* means an ESRD facility or Managing Clinician that is required to participate in the ETC Model pursuant to § 512.325(a).


*Facility Home Dialysis Payment Adjustment (Facility HDPA)* means the payment adjustment to the Adjusted ESRD PPS per Treatment Base Rate for an ESRD facility that is an ETC Participant for the ESRD facility's home dialysis claims, as described in §§ 512.340 and 512.350.


*Facility Performance Payment Adjustment (Facility PPA)* means the payment adjustment to the Adjusted ESRD PPS per treatment base rate for an ESRD facility that is an ETC Participant based on the ESRD facility's MPS, as described in §§ 512.375(a) and 512.380.


*Health Equity Incentive* means the amount added to the ETC Participant's improvement score, calculated as described in § 512.370(c)(1), if the ETC Participant's aggregation group demonstrated sufficient improvement on the home dialysis rate or transplant rate for attributed beneficiaries who are dual eligible or Medicare Low Income Subsidy (LIS) recipients between the Benchmark Year and the MY.


*Home Dialysis Payment Adjustment (HDPA)* means either the Facility HDPA or the Clinician HDPA.


*Home dialysis rate* means the rate of ESRD Beneficiaries attributed to the ETC Participant who dialyzed at home during the relevant MY, as described in § 512.365(b).


*Hospital referral regions (HRRs)* means the regional markets for tertiary medical care derived from Medicare claims data as defined by the Dartmouth Atlas Project at *https://www.dartmouthatlas.org/.*

*Kidney transplant* means a kidney transplant, alone or in conjunction with any other organ.


*Living donor transplant (LDT) Beneficiary* means an ESRD Beneficiary who received a kidney transplant from a living donor.


*Living donor transplant rate* means the rate of ESRD Beneficiaries and, if applicable, Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiaries attributed to the ETC Participant who received a kidney transplant from a living donor during the MY, as described in § 512.365(c)(1)(ii) and § 512.365(c)(2)(ii).


*Managing Clinician* means a Medicare-enrolled physician or non-physician practitioner, identified by a National Provider Identifier (NPI), who furnishes and bills the MCP for managing one or more adult ESRD Beneficiaries.


*Measurement Year (MY)* means the 12-month period for which achievement and improvement on the home dialysis rate and transplant rate are assessed for the purpose of calculating the ETC Participant's MPS and corresponding PPA. Each MY included in the ETC Model and its corresponding PPA Period are specified in § 512.355(c).


*Modality Performance Score (MPS)* means the numeric performance score calculated for each ETC Participant based on the ETC Participant's home dialysis rate and transplant rate, as described in § 512.370(a), which is used to determine the amount of the ETC Participant's PPA, as described in § 512.380.


*Monthly capitation payment (MCP)* means the monthly capitated payment made for each ESRD Beneficiary to cover all routine professional services related to treatment of the patient's renal condition furnished by the physician or non-physician practitioner as specified in § 414.314 of this chapter.


*National Provider Identifier (NPI)* means the standard unique health identifier used by health care providers for billing payors, assigned by the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System (NPPES) in 45 CFR part 162.


*Performance Payment Adjustment (PPA)* means either the Facility PPA or the Clinician PPA.


*Performance Payment Adjustment Period (PPA Period)* means the six-month period during which a PPA is applied in accordance with § 512.380.


*Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiary* means a beneficiary who received a kidney transplant from a living donor prior to beginning dialysis.


*Qualified staff* means both clinical staff and any qualified person (as defined at § 410.48(a) of this chapter) who is an ETC Participant.


*Selected Geographic Area(s)* are those HRRs selected by CMS pursuant to § 512.325(b) for purposes of selecting ESRD facilities and Managing Clinicians required to participate in the ETC Model as ETC Participants.


*Subsidiary ESRD facility* is an ESRD facility owned in whole or in part by another legal entity.


*Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)* means a Federal taxpayer identification number or employer identification number as defined by the Internal Revenue Service in 26 CFR 301.6109-1.


*Transplant rate* means the sum of the transplant waitlist rate and the living donor transplant rate, as described in § 512.365(c).


*Transplant waitlist rate* means the rate of ESRD Beneficiaries attributed to the ETC Participant who were on the kidney transplant waitlist during the MY, as described in § 512.365(c)(1)(i)-(ii) and § 512.365(c)(2)(i)-(ii).



---

[N] [85 FR 61362, Sept. 29, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 62020, Nov. 8, 2021; 89 FR 89213, Nov. 12, 2024]




