# § 721.1055   Benzeneamine, 3,5-difluoro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzeneamine, 3,5-difluoro- (PMN P-97-648; CAS No. 372-39-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. This NCEL is set at 0.4 mg/m
3.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g) and (q).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]




