# § 52.2584   Control strategy; Particulate matter.

(a) Part D—Disapproval—USEPA disapproves Regulation NR 154.11(7)(b) of Wisconsin Administrative Code (RACT Requirements for Coking Operations), which is part of the control strategy to attain and maintain the standards for particulate matter, because it does not contain an enforceable RACT-level numerical visible emission limitation for charging operations.


(b) Approval—On April 30, 1988 and March 30, 1990, the State of Wisconsin submitted committal SIPs for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter equal to or less than 10 micrometers (PM_10_) for the Group II areas within the Cities of DePere, Madison, Milwaukee, Superior, and Waukesha. This committal SIP meets all of the requirements identified in the July 1, 1987, promulgation of the SIP requirements for PM_10_.


(c) Approval—On August 1, 2013, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to their Particulate Matter State Implementation Plan. The submittal established transportation conformity “Conformity” criteria and procedures related to interagency consultation, and enforceability of certain transportation related control and mitigation measures.


(d) Approval—On April 22, 2014, EPA approved the 2006 24-Hour PM_2.5_ maintenance plan for the Milwaukee-Racine nonattainment area (Milwaukee, Racine and Waukesha Counties), as submitted on June 8, 2012. The maintenance plan establishes 2020 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Milwaukee-Racine area of 2.33 tons per winter day 1 (tpwd) and 2.16 tpwd direct PM_2.5_ and 32.62 tpwd and 28.69 tpwd NO_X_ for the years 2020 and 2025, respectively.


(e) Approval—On April 22, 2014, EPA approved the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ comprehensive emissions inventories for the Milwaukee-Racine area (Milwaukee, Racine and Waukesha Counties). Wisconsin's 2006 NO_X_, directly emitted PM_2.5_, SO_2_, VOC, as well as the 2007 supplemental ammonia emissions inventory satisfies the emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Milwaukee-Racine area.


(f) Approval—On December 23, 2015, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for the Milwaukee-Racine-Waukesha (Milwaukee), Wisconsin 2006 24-Hour Particulate Matter Maintenance Plan. The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) for the years 2020 and 2025. The VOC MVEBs for the Milwaukee area are now: 18.274 tons per day for 2020 and 13.778 tons per day for the year 2025.


(g) Approval—On August 8, 2024, EPA approved the 2006 24-Hour PM_2.5_ limited maintenance plan for the second 10-year maintenance period for the Milwaukee-Racine area (Milwaukee, Racine and Waukesha counties) as submitted by the State of Wisconsin on April 8, 2022. The limited maintenance plan submission satisfies the second 10-year planning requirement of section 175A(b) of the Clean Air Act for the Milwaukee-Racine area.







---

[N] [48 FR 9862, Mar. 9, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 33120, Aug. 14, 1990; 79 FR 22417, Apr. 22, 2014; 79 FR 10998, Feb. 27, 2014; 81 FR 8656, Feb. 22, 2016; 89 FR 56233, July 9, 2024]




