# § 601.502   Recognized representative.

(a) A recognized representative is an individual who is


(1) Appointed as an attorney-in-fact under a power of attorney, and a


(2) Member of one of the categories described in § 601.502(b) and who files a declaration of representative, as described in § 601.502(c).


(b) *Categories*—(1) *Attorney.* Any individual who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia;


(2) *Certified public accountant.* Any individual who is duly qualified to practice as a certified public accountant in any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia;


(3) *Enrolled agent.* Any individual who is enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service and is in active status pursuant to the requirements of Circular No. 230;


(4) *Enrolled actuary.* Any individual who is enrolled as an actuary by and is in active status with the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 1242.


(5) *Other individuals*—(i) *Temporary recognition.* Any individual who is granted temporary recognition as an enrolled agent by the Director of Practice (31 CFR 10.5(c)).


(ii) *Practice based on a relationship or special status with a taxpayer.* Any individual authorized to represent a taxpayer with whom/which a special relationship exists (31 CFR 10.7(a) (1)-(6)). (For example, an individual may represent another individual who is his/her regular full-time employer or a member of his/her immediate family; an individual who is a bona fide officer or regular full-time employee of a corporation or certain other organizations may represent that entity.)


(iii) *Unenrolled return preparer.* Any individual who signs a return as having prepared it for a taxpayer, or who prepared a return with respect to which the instructions or regulations do not require that the return be signed by the preparer. The acts which an unenrolled return preparer may perform are limited to representation of a taxpayer before revenue agents and examining officers of the Examination Division in the offices of District Director with respect to the tax liability of the taxpayer for the taxable year or period covered by a return prepared by the unenrolled return prepared (31 CFR 10.7(a)(7)).


(iv) *Special appearance.* Any individual who, upon written application, is authorized by the Director of Practice to represent a taxpayer in a particular matter (31 CFR 10.7(b)).


(c) *Declaration of representative.* A recognized representative must attach to the power of attorney a written declaration (e.g., part II of form 2848) stating the following—



---

[N] [56 FR 24004, May 28, 1991; amended at 57 FR 27356, June 19, 1992]




