# § 152.96   Claim of data gap.

(a) *When a data gap may be claimed.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an applicant may defer his obligation to satisfy an applicable data requirement until the Agency requires the data if no other person has previously submitted to the Agency a valid study that would satisfy the data requirement in question.


(b) *When a data gap may not be claimed*—(1) *Product containing a new active ingredient.* An applicant for registration of a product containing a new active ingredient may not defer his obligation by claiming a data gap unless he can demonstrate to the Agency's satisfaction that the data requirement was imposed so recently that insufficient time has elapsed for the study to have been completed and that, in the public interest, the product should be registered during the limited period of time required to complete the study. Refer to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) section 3(c)(7)(C).


(2) *Product not containing a new active ingredient.* An applicant for registration of a product under FIFRA sections 3(c)(7)(A) or (B) (a product not containing a new active ingredient) may not defer his obligation by claiming a data gap if the data are:


(i) Data needed to determine whether the product is identical or substantially similar to another currently registered product or differs only in ways that would substantially increase the risk of unreasonable adverse effects on the environment.


(ii) Efficacy data specific to the product, if required to be submitted to the Agency.


(iii) If a new use is proposed for a product that is identical or substantially similar to an existing product, data to demonstrate whether the new use would substantially increase the risk of unreasonable adverse effects on the environment.


(c) *Approval of application with a data gap claim*—(1) In accordance with § 152.115(a), any registration that is approved based upon a data gap claim shall be conditioned on the submission of the data no later than the time that the data are required to be submitted for similar products already registered.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Agency will not approve an application if it determines that the data for which a data gap claim has been made are needed to determine if the product meets the requirements of FIFRA sections 3(c)(5) or (7).



---

[N] [79 FR 6826, Feb. 5, 2014]




