# ยง 24.249   Experimentation with new treating material or process.

(a) *General.* The proprietor may, under the provisions of this section, conduct on bonded wine premises such experimentation with a treating material or process as the appropriate TTB officer finds may be conducted in a manner that will not jeopardize the revenue, conflict with wine operations, or be contrary to law.


(b) *Application.* The proprietor who wants to conduct experimentation must file an application with the appropriate TTB officer setting forth in detail the experimentation to be conducted and the facilities and equipment to be used. The proposed experimentation must not be conducted until the appropriate TTB officer has determined that the conduct of such experimentation must not jeopardize the revenue, conflict with wine operations, or be contrary to law, and has approved the application.


(c) *Segregation of operations.* Experimentation authorized under this section will be conducted with the degree of segregation from wine operations as may be required by the appropriate TTB officer under the provisions of ยง 24.27.


(d) *Records.* The proprietor shall, with respect to each experiment authorized by this section, keep records of the kind and quantity of materials received and used and the volume of wine treated and the manner by which disposed.


(e) *Disposition of the wine.* The disposition of the wine subjected to experimental treatment will conform to the conditions stated in the authorization to conduct the experimentation. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, 13685, Mar. 22, 1999]




