# § 635.606   ID/IQ procedures.

(a) *FHWA approval.* The State DOT shall submit its proposed ID/IQ procurement procedures to the Division Administrator for review and approval. Following approval by the Division Administrator, any subsequent changes in procedures and requirements shall also be subject to approval by the Division Administrator before they are implemented. Other contracting agencies may follow approved State DOT procedures in their State or their own procedures if approved by both the State DOT and FHWA. The Division Administrator's approval of ID/IQ procurement procedures may not be delegated or assigned to the State DOT.


(b) *Competition.* ID/IQ procurement procedures shall effectively secure competition in the judgment of the Division Administrator.


(c) *Procurement requirements.* ID/IQ procurement procedures shall include the following procedures and responsibilities:


(1) Review and approval of ID/IQ solicitations;


(2) Review and approval of work item descriptions and specifications;


(3) Approval to advertise solicitations;


(4) Concurrence with ID/IQ contract awards to single or multiple contractors;


(5) Approval of and amendments to formal project agreements and authorizations to proceed pursuant to § 630.106 of this chapter;


(6) Issuance of work orders;


(7) Approval of and amendments to agreement estimates pursuant to § 635.115;


(8) Changed conditions clauses;


(9) Approval of contract changes and extra work pursuant to § 635.120; and


(10) Other procedures as needed to ensure compliance with other requirements in this subpart and under Title 23, U.S.C. and its implementing regulations and 49 CFR part 26.


(d) *Design-build and ID/IQ.* Subject to the approval of the Division Administrator, as described in § 635.606(a), contracting agencies may incorporate the design-build contracting method with ID/IQ contracts. In addition to the requirements of this section, the contracting agency shall include procedures as needed to ensure compliance with part 636 of this chapter and related requirements.




