# § 1051.801   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. All undefined terms have the meaning the Act gives to them. The definitions follow:


*Act* means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.


*Adjustable parameter* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.50.


*Aftertreatment* means relating to a catalytic converter, particulate filter, or any other system, component, or technology mounted downstream of the exhaust valve (or exhaust port) whose design function is to decrease emissions in the engine exhaust before it is exhausted to the environment. Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR), turbochargers, and oxygen sensors are not aftertreatment.


*Alcohol-fueled* means relating to a vehicle with an engine that is designed to run using an alcohol fuel. For purposes of this definition, alcohol fuels do not include fuels with a nominal alcohol content below 25 percent by volume.


*All-terrain vehicle* means a land-based or amphibious nonroad vehicle that meets the criteria listed in paragraph (1) of this definition; or, alternatively the criteria of paragraph (2) of this definition but not the criteria of paragraph (3) of this definition:


(1) Vehicles designed to travel on four low pressure tires, having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering controls, and intended for use by a single operator and no other passengers are all-terrain vehicles.


(2) Other all-terrain vehicles have three or more wheels and one or more seats, are designed for operation over rough terrain, are intended primarily for transportation, and have a maximum vehicle speed higher than 25 miles per hour. Golf carts generally do not meet these criteria since they are generally not designed for operation over rough terrain.


(3) Vehicles that meet the definition of “offroad utility vehicle” in this section are not all-terrain vehicles. However, § 1051.1(a) specifies that some offroad utility vehicles are required to meet the same requirements as all-terrain vehicles.


*Amphibious vehicle* means a vehicle with wheels or tracks that is designed primarily for operation on land and secondarily for operation in water.


*Auxiliary emission-control device* means any element of design that senses temperature, motive speed, engine RPM, transmission gear, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission-control system.


*Brake power* means the usable power output of the engine, not including power required to fuel, lubricate, or heat the engine, circulate coolant to the engine, or to operate aftertreatment devices.


*Calibration* means the set of specifications and tolerances specific to a particular design, version, or application of a component or assembly capable of functionally describing its operation over its working range.


*Certification* means relating to the process of obtaining a certificate of conformity for an engine family that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part.


*Certified emission level* means the highest deteriorated emission level in an engine family for a given pollutant from either transient or steady-state testing.


*Compression-ignition* means relating to a type of reciprocating, internal-combustion engine that is not a spark-ignition engine.


*Crankcase emissions* means airborne substances emitted to the atmosphere from any part of the engine crankcase's ventilation or lubrication systems. The crankcase is the housing for the crankshaft and other related internal parts.


*Critical emission-related component* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Days* means calendar days unless otherwise specified. For example, where we specify working days, we mean calendar days excluding weekends and U.S. national holidays.


*Designated Compliance Officer* means the Manager, Light-Duty Engine Group, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105.


*Designated Enforcement Officer* means the Director, Air Enforcement Division (2242A), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.


*Deteriorated emission level* means the emission level that results from applying the appropriate deterioration factor to the official emission result of the emission-data vehicle.


*Deterioration factor* means the relationship between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point, expressed in one of the following ways:


(1) For multiplicative deterioration factors, the ratio of emissions at the end of useful life to emissions at the low-hour test point.


(2) For additive deterioration factors, the difference between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point.


*Emission-control system* means any device, system, or element of design that controls or reduces the emissions of regulated pollutants from an engine.


*Emission-data vehicle* means a vehicle or engine that is tested for certification. This includes vehicles or engines tested to establish deterioration factors.


*Emission-related maintenance* means maintenance that substantially affects emissions or is likely to substantially affect emission deterioration.


*Engine configuration* means a unique combination of engine hardware and calibration within an engine family. Engines within a single engine configuration differ only with respect to normal production variability or factors unrelated to emissions.


*Engine family* has the meaning given in § 1051.230.


*Evaporative* means relating to fuel emissions that result from permeation of fuel through the fuel system materials and from ventilation of the fuel system.


*Excluded* means relating to an engine that either:


(1) Has been determined not to be a nonroad engine, as specified in 40 CFR 1068.30; or


(2) Is a nonroad engine that is excluded from this part 1051 under the provisions of § 1051.5.


*Exempted* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Exhaust-gas recirculation* means a technology that reduces emissions by routing exhaust gases that had been exhausted from the combustion chamber(s) back into the engine to be mixed with incoming air before or during combustion. The use of valve timing to increase the amount of residual exhaust gas in the combustion chamber(s) that is mixed with incoming air before or during combustion is not considered exhaust-gas recirculation for the purposes of this part.


*Family emission limit (FEL)* means an emission level declared by the manufacturer to serve in place of an otherwise applicable emission standard under the ABT program in subpart H of this part. The family emission limit must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard it replaces. The family emission limit serves as the emission standard for the engine family with respect to all required testing.


*Fuel line* means all hoses or tubing designed to contain liquid fuel or fuel vapor. This includes all hoses or tubing for the filler neck, for connections between dual fuel tanks, and for connecting a carbon canister to the fuel tank. This does not include hoses or tubing for routing crankcase vapors to the engine's intake or any other hoses or tubing that are open to the atmosphere.


*Fuel system* means all components involved in transporting, metering, and mixing the fuel from the fuel tank to the combustion chamber(s), including the fuel tank, fuel tank cap, fuel pump, fuel filters, fuel lines, carburetor or fuel-injection components, and all fuel-system vents. In the case where the fuel tank cap or other components (excluding fuel lines) are directly mounted on the fuel tank, they are considered to be a part of the fuel tank.


*Fuel type* means a general category of fuels such as gasoline or natural gas. There can be multiple grades within a single fuel type, such as winter-grade and all-season gasoline.


*Good engineering judgment* means judgments made consistent with generally accepted scientific and engineering principles and all available relevant information. See 40 CFR 1068.5 for the administrative process we use to evaluate good engineering judgment.


*Hydrocarbon (HC)* means the hydrocarbon group on which the emission standards are based for each fuel type. For alcohol-fueled engines, HC means total hydrocarbon equivalent (THCE). For all other engines, HC means nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC).


*Identification number* means a unique specification (for example, a model number/serial number combination) that allows someone to distinguish a particular vehicle or engine from other similar engines.


*Low-hour* means relating to an engine with stabilized emissions and represents the undeteriorated emission level. This would generally involve less than 24 hours or 240 kilometers of operation.


*Low-permeability material* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1060.801.


*Manufacturer* has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Act. In general, this term includes any person who manufactures a vehicle or engine for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new vehicle or engine into commerce in the United States. This includes importers that import vehicles or engines for resale.


*Maximum engine power* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 90.3 for 2010 and earlier model years and in § 1051.140 for 2011 and later model years. Note that maximum engine power is based on the engine alone, without regard to any governing or other restrictions from the vehicle installation.


*Maximum test speed* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Model year* means one of the following things:


(1) For freshly manufactured vehicles (see definition of “new,” paragraph (1)), model year means one of the following:


(i) Calendar year.


(ii) Your annual new model production period if it is different than the calendar year. This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. For seasonal production periods not including January 1, *model year* means the calendar year in which the production occurs, unless you choose to certify the applicable emission family with the following model year. For example, if your production period is June 1, 2010, through November 30, 2010, your model year would be 2010 unless you choose to certify the emission family for model year 2011.


(2) For an engine originally certified and manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051, *model year* means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For an engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine without having been certified that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051, *model year* means the calendar year in which the engine becomes subject to this part 1051. (See definition of “new,” paragraph (2)).


(3) For a nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application covered by 40 CFR part 90, 91, 1048, or 1054, where that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part 1051, *model year* means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced (see definition of “new,” paragraph (3)).


(4) For engines that are not freshly manufactured but are installed in new recreational vehicles, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the recreational vehicle (see definition of “new,” paragraph (4)).


(5) For imported engines:


(i) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(i) of the definition of “new,” *model year* has the meaning given in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition.


(ii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(ii) of the definition of “new,” *model year* means the calendar year in which the vehicle is modified.


(iii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(iii) of the definition of “new” *model year* means the calendar year in which the engine is assembled in its imported configuration, unless specified otherwise in this part or in 40 CFR part 1068.


*Motor vehicle* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 85.1703(a).


*New* means relating to any of the following things:


(1) A freshly manufactured vehicle for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of vehicle might commonly be thought of as “brand new.”


In the case of this paragraph (1), the vehicle is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.


(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle or stationary engine and becomes new. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service as a recreational vehicle covered by this part 1051.


(3) A nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application covered by 40 CFR part 90, 91, 1048, or 1054, when that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part 1051. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service in a recreational vehicle covered by this part 1051. For example, this would apply to a marine propulsion engine that is no longer used in a marine vessel.


(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in a new vehicle covered by this part 1051. This generally includes installation of used engines in new recreational vehicles. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vehicle or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.


(5) An imported vehicle or engine, subject to the following provisions:


(i) An imported recreational vehicle or recreational-vehicle engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.


(ii) An imported vehicle or engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is new when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vehicle or engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.


(iii) An imported recreational vehicle or recreational-vehicle engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This addresses uncertified vehicles and engines initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of vehicle or engine is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such a vehicle or engine is not prohibited if it has a model year before 2006, since it is not subject to standards.


*Noncompliant* means relating to a vehicle that was originally covered by a certificate of conformity, but is not in the certified configuration or otherwise does not comply with the conditions of the certificate.


*Nonconforming* means relating to vehicle not covered by a certificate of conformity that would otherwise be subject to emission standards.


*Nonmethane hydrocarbon* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Nonroad* means relating to nonroad engines or equipment that includes nonroad engines.


*Nonroad engine* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means all internal-combustion engines except motor-vehicle engines, stationary engines, engines used solely for competition, or engines used in aircraft.


*Off-highway motorcycle* means a two-wheeled vehicle with a nonroad engine and a seat (excluding marine vessels and aircraft). (Note: highway motorcycles are regulated under 40 CFR part 86.)


*Official emission result* means the measured emission rate for an emission-data vehicle on a given duty cycle before the application of any deterioration factor.


*Offroad utility vehicle* means a nonroad vehicle that has four or more wheels, seating for two or more persons, is designed for operation over rough terrain, and has either a rear payload capacity of 350 pounds or more or seating for six or more passengers. Vehicles intended primarily for recreational purposes that are not capable of transporting six passengers (such as dune buggies) are not offroad utility vehicles. (_Note:_ § 1051.1(a) specifies that some offroad utility vehicles are required to meet the requirements that apply for all-terrain vehicles.) Unless there is significant information to the contrary, we consider vehicles to be intended primarily for recreational purposes if they are marketed for recreational use, have a rear payload capacity no greater than 1,000 pounds, and meet at least five of the following criteria:


(1) Front and rear suspension travel is greater than 18 cm.


(2) The vehicle has no tilt bed.


(3) The vehicle has no mechanical power take-off (PTO) and no permanently installed hydraulic system for operating utility-oriented accessory devices.


(4) The engine has in-use operating speeds at or above 4,000 rpm.


(5) Maximum vehicle speed is greater than 35 miles per hour.


(6) The speed at which the engine produces peak power is above 4,500 rpm and the engine is equivalent to engines in ATVs certified by the same manufacturer. For the purpose of this paragraph (6), the engine is considered equivalent if it could be included in the same emission family based on the characteristics specified in § 1051.230(b).


(7) Gross Vehicle Weight Rating is no greater than 3,750 pounds. This is the maximum design loaded weight of the vehicle as defined in 40 CFR 86.1803-01, including passengers and cargo.


*Owners manual* means a document or collection of documents prepared by the engine manufacturer for the owner or operator to describe appropriate engine maintenance, applicable warranties, and any other information related to operating or keeping the engine. The owners manual is typically provided to the ultimate purchaser at the time of sale. The owners manual may be in paper or electronic format.


*Oxides of nitrogen* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Phase 1* means relating to Phase 1 standards of §§ 1051.103, 1051.105, or 1051.107, or other Phase 1 standards specified in subpart B of this part.


*Phase 2* means relating to Phase 2 standards of § 1051.103, or other Phase 2 standards specified in subpart B of this part.


*Phase 3* means relating to Phase 3 standards of § 1051.103, or other Phase 3 standards specified in subpart B of this part.


*Placed into service* means put into initial use for its intended purpose.


*Point of first retail sale* means the location at which the initial retail sale occurs. This generally means an equipment dealership, but may also include an engine seller or distributor in cases where loose engines are sold to the general public for uses such as replacement engines.


*Recreational* means, for purposes of this part, relating to snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, off-highway motorcycles, and other vehicles that we regulate under this part. Note that 40 CFR parts 90 and 1054 apply to engines used in other recreational vehicles.


*Revoke* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Round* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001, unless otherwise specified.


*Scheduled maintenance* means adjusting, repairing, removing, disassembling, cleaning, or replacing components or systems periodically to keep a part or system from failing, malfunctioning, or wearing prematurely. It also may mean actions you expect are necessary to correct an overt indication of failure or malfunction for which periodic maintenance is not appropriate.


*Small-volume manufacturer* means one of the following:


(1) For motorcycles and ATVs, a manufacturer that sold motorcycles or ATVs before 2003 and had annual U.S.-directed production of no more than 5,000 off-road motorcycles and ATVs (combined number) in 2002 and all earlier calendar years. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, the limit applies to the production of the parent company and all of its subsidiaries.


(2) For snowmobiles, a manufacturer that sold snowmobiles before 2003 and had annual U.S.-directed production of no more than 300 snowmobiles in 2002 and all earlier model years. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, the limit applies to the production of the parent company and all of its subsidiaries.


(3) A manufacturer that we designate to be a small-volume manufacturer under § 1051.635.


*Snowmobile* means a vehicle designed to operate outdoors only over snow-covered ground, with a maximum width of 1.5 meters or less.


*Spark-ignition* means relating to a gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark-ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation.


*Suspend* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Test sample* means the collection of engines selected from the population of an engine family for emission testing. This may include testing for certification, production-line testing, or in-use testing.


*Test vehicle or engine* means an engine in a test sample.


*Total hydrocarbon* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the combined mass of organic compounds measured by the specified procedure for measuring total hydrocarbon, expressed as a hydrocarbon with a hydrogen-to-carbon mass ratio of 1.85:1.


*Total hydrocarbon equivalent* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Ultimate purchaser* means, with respect to any new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine for purposes other than resale.


*Ultraviolet light* means electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength between 300 and 400 nanometers.


*United States* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Upcoming model year* means for an engine family the model year after the one currently in production.


*U.S.-directed production volume* means the number of vehicle units, subject to the requirements of this part, produced by a manufacturer for which the manufacturer has a reasonable assurance that sale was or will be made to ultimate purchasers in the United States. This includes vehicles for which the location of first retail sale is in a state that has applicable state emission regulations for that model year, unless we specify otherwise.


*Useful life* means the period during which a vehicle is required to comply with all applicable emission standards, specified as a given number of calendar years and kilometers (whichever comes first). In some cases, useful life is also limited by a given number of hours of engine operation. If an engine has no odometer (or hour meter), the specified number of kilometers (or hours) does not limit the period during which an in-use vehicle is required to comply with emission standards, unless the degree of service accumulation can be verified separately. The useful life for an engine family must be at least as long as both of the following:


(1) The expected average service life before the vehicle is remanufactured or retired from service.


(2) The minimum useful life value.


*Void* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Volatile liquid fuel* means any fuel other than diesel or biodiesel that is a liquid at atmospheric pressure and has a Reid Vapor Pressure higher than 2.0 pounds per square inch.


*We (us, our)* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.


*Wide-open throttle* means maximum throttle opening. Unless this is specified at a given speed, it refers to maximum throttle opening at maximum speed. For electronically controlled or other engines with multiple possible fueling rates, wide-open throttle also means the maximum fueling rate at maximum throttle opening under test conditions.



---

[N] [70 FR 40507, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59257, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]




