# § 441.60   Continuing care.

(a) *Continuing care provider.* For purposes of this subpart, a continuing care provider means a provider who has an agreement with the Medicaid agency to provide reports as required under paragraph (b) of this section and to provide at least the following services to eligible EPSDT beneficiaries formally enrolled with the provider:


(1) With the exception of dental services required under § 441.56, screening, diagnosis, treatment, and referral for follow-up services as required under this subpart.


(2) Maintenance of the beneficiary's consolidated health history, including information received from other providers.


(3) Physicians' services as needed by the beneficiary for acute, episodic or chronic illnesses or conditions.


(4) At the provider's option, provision of dental services required under § 441.56 or direct referral to a dentist to provide dental services required under § 441.56(b)(1)(vi). The provider must specify in the agreement whether dental services or referral for dental services are provided. If the provider does not choose to provide either service, then the provider must refer beneficiaries to the agency to obtain those dental services required under § 441.56.


(5) At the provider's option, provision of all or part of the transportation and scheduling assistance as required under § 441.62. The provider must specify in the agreement the transportation and scheduling assistance to be furnished. If the provider does not choose to provide some or all of the assistance, then the provider must refer beneficiaries to the agency to obtain the transportation and scheduling assistance required under § 441.62.


(b) *Reports.* A continuing care provider must provide to the agency any reports that the agency may reasonably require.


(c) *State monitoring.* If the State plan provides for agreements with continuing care providers, the agency must employ methods described in the State plan to assure the providers' compliance with their agreements.


(d) *Effect of agreement with continuing care providers.* Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, CMS will deem the agency to meet the requirements of this subpart with respect to all EPSDT eligible beneficiaries formally enrolled with the continuing care provider. To be formally enrolled, a beneficiary or beneficiary's family agrees to use one continuing care provider to be a regular source of the described set of services for a stated period of time. Both the beneficiary and the provider must sign statements that reflect their obligations under the continuing care arrangement.


(e) If the agreement in paragraph (a) of this section does not provide for all or part of the transportation and scheduling assistance required under § 441.62, or for dental service under § 441.56, the agency must provide for those services to the extent they are not provided for in the agreement.




