# § 21.3024   Nonduplication; Federal Employees' Compensation Act.

(a) *Civilian employment.* The provisions of this paragraph are applicable to cases where there is eligibility for benefits from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) based on the disability or death as a result of civilian employment of the veteran from whom eligibility for educational assistance is derived. 


(1) *Child, spouse or surviving spouse.* A person who is eligible for educational assistance and is also eligible for Office of Workers' Compensation Programs benefits, under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) must elect which benefit he or she will receive. 


(2) *Veteran, spouse and child—surviving spouse and child.* An eligible person may receive educational assistance notwithstanding that the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) are being paid to a veteran, or surviving spouse. 


(3) *Election.* An election of Office of Workers' Compensation Programs benefits, under the Federal employees' Compensation Act (FECA), by or for a child filed on or after July 4, 1966, is a bar to subsequent payments of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits during the period of concurrent eligibility. An election of Office of Workers' Compensation Programs benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) by a surviving spouse filed on or after December 1, 1968, is a bar to subsequent payments of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits during the period of concurrent eligibility. 


(b) *Military service.* The provisions of this paragraph are applicable to cases where there is eligibility for benefits from Office of Workers' Compensation Program, under the Federal Employee's Compensation Act (FECA) based on the disability or death as a result of military service by the veteran from whom eligibility for educational assistance is derived. 


(1) *Child, spouse or surviving spouse.* A person who is eligible for educational assistance and is also eligible for Office of Workers' Compensation Programs benefits, under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) must elect which benefit he or she will receive. The election may be made at any time. 


(2) *Veteran, spouse and child—surviving spouse and child.* An eligible person may receive educational assistance notwithstanding that the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs benefits, under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) are being paid to a veteran, or surviving spouse. 



---

[N] [40 FR 42879, Sept. 17, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 27826, July 8, 1985]




