# ยง 0.29c   Reporting allegations of employee misconduct.

(a) *Reporting to the OIG.* Evidence and non-frivolous allegations of criminal wrongdoing or serious administrative misconduct by Department employees shall be reported to the OIG, or to a supervisor or a Department component's internal affairs office for referral to the OIG, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Reporting to the Department's Office of Professional Responsibility (DOJ-OPR).* Employees shall report to DOJ-OPR evidence and non-frivolous allegations of serious misconduct by Department attorneys that relate to the exercise of their authority to investigate, litigate, or provide legal advice. Employees shall also report to DOJ-OPR evidence and non-frivolous allegations of serious misconduct by Department law enforcement personnel that are related to allegations of misconduct by a Department attorney that relate to the exercise of the attorney's authority to investigate, litigate, or provide legal advice.


(c) *Reporting to the Drug Enforcement Administration Office of Professional Responsibility (DEA-OPR).* Evidence and non-frivolous allegations of serious misconduct by employees of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) shall be reported by the OIG to the Drug Enforcement Administration Office of Professional Responsibility (DEA-OPR) or to the Deputy Attorney General.


(d) *Reporting to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Office of Professional Responsibility (FBI-OPR).* Evidence and non-frivolous allegations of serious misconduct by employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) shall be reported by the OIG to the FBI-OPR except as provided in ยง 0.29d of this subpart, or to the Deputy Attorney General.



---

[N] [Order No. 2167-98, 63 FR 36847, July 8, 1998, as amended by Order No. 2492-2001, 66 FR 37903, July 20, 2001]






