# § 220.313   Instruction.

(a) *Program.* Beginning December 27, 2010, each railroad shall maintain a written program of instruction and examination of each railroad operating employee and each supervisor of the railroad operating employee on the meaning and application of the railroad's operating rules implementing the requirements of this subpart if these requirements are pertinent to the employee's duties. If all requirements of this subpart are satisfied, a railroad may consolidate any portion of the instruction or examination required by this subpart with the program of instruction required under § 217.11 of this chapter.


(1) The written program of instruction and examination shall address the requirements of this subpart, as well as consequences of noncompliance.


(2) The written program of instruction and examination shall include, but is not limited to, an explanation of the following:


(i) When a railroad operating employee must have personal electronic devices turned off with the earpiece removed from the ear as required by this subpart.


(ii) If a railroad supplies an electronic device to its railroad operating employees, when a railroad operating employee may use such a device. The employee must be instructed on what constitutes an authorized business purpose.


(iii) The potential penalties and other consequences of committing a violation of this subpart, both those imposed by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and those imposed by the railroad, as well as any distinction between the requirements of this subpart and any more stringent requirements imposed by the railroad and the related distinction between the two sets of potential consequences.


(b) *Implementation schedule.* Each employee performing duties subject to the requirements in this subpart shall be initially instructed prior to March 28, 2011.


(1) Beginning March 28, 2011, no employee shall perform work requiring compliance with the operating rules implementing the requirements of this subpart unless the employee has been instructed on requirements of this subpart within the previous three years.


(2) The records of successful completion of instruction and examination required by this section shall document the instruction of each employee under this subpart.


(c) *Records.* Written records documenting successful completion of instruction and examination of each employee and of his or her supervisors shall be made and shall be retained at the railroad's system headquarters and at the division headquarters for each division where the employee is assigned for three calendar years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate and made available to representatives of FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours. Each railroad to which this part applies is authorized to retain a program, or any records maintained to prove compliance with such a program, by electronic recordkeeping in accordance with §§ 217.9(g) and 217.11(c) of this chapter.


(d) *Approval process.* Upon review of the program of instruction and examination required by this section, the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer may, for cause stated, disapprove the program. Notification of such disapproval shall be made in writing and specify the basis for the disapproval.


(1) If the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer disapproves the program, the railroad has 35 days from the date of the written notification of such disapproval to—


(i) Amend its program and submit it to the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer for approval; or


(ii) Provide a written response in support of the program to the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer, who informs the railroad of FRA's final decision in writing.


(2) A failure to submit the program with the necessary revisions to the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer in accordance with this paragraph is considered a failure to implement a program under this subpart.




