# § 48.4081-7   Taxable fuel; conditions for refunds of taxable fuel tax under section 4081(e).

(a) *Overview.* This section provides reporting requirements and other conditions that a person paying tax to the government under section 4081 must satisfy to receive a refund (but not a credit) under section 4081(e) with respect to taxable fuel on which a prior tax was paid to the government under section 4081. No credit against any tax imposed under the Internal Revenue Code is allowed under this section.


(b) *Conditions to allowance of refund.* A claim for refund of tax imposed by section 4081 with respect to taxable fuel is allowed under section 4081(e) and this section only if—


(1) A tax imposed by section 4081 with respect to the taxable fuel was paid to the government and not credited or refunded (the “first tax”);


(2) After imposition of the first tax, another tax was imposed by section 4081 with respect to the same taxable fuel and was also paid to the government (the “second tax”);


(3) The person that paid the second tax to the government has filed a timely claim for refund that contains the information required under paragraph (d) of this section; and


(4) The person that paid the first tax to the government has met the reporting requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Reporting requirements*—(1) *Reporting by persons paying the first tax.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the person that paid the first tax under § 48.4081-3 (the first taxpayer) must file a report that is in substantially the same form as the model report provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section (or such other model report as the Commissioner may prescribe) and contains all information necessary to complete such model report (the first taxpayer's report). A first taxpayer's report must be filed with the return to which the report relates (or at such other time, or in such other manner, as prescribed by the Commissioner).


(2) *Model first taxpayer's report.*

(3) *Optional reporting for certain taxable events.* Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply with respect to a tax imposed under § 48.4081-2 (removal at a terminal rack), § 48.4081-3(c)(1)(ii) (nonbulk entries into the United States), or § 48.4081-3(g) (removals or sales by blenders). However, if the person liable for the tax expects that another tax will be imposed under section 4081 with respect to the taxable fuel, that person should (but is not required to) file a first taxpayer's report.


(4) *Information provided to subsequent owners, etc.*—(i) *By person required to file first taxpayer's report.* A first taxpayer required to file a first taxpayer's report under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must give a copy of the report to—


(A) The person to whom the first taxpayer sells (within the meaning of § 48.4081-1)) the taxable fuel within the bulk transfer/terminal system; or


(B) The owner of the taxable fuel immediately before the imposition of the first tax, if the first taxpayer is not the owner at that time.


(ii) *By person filing optional first taxpayer's report.* A first taxpayer filing a first taxpayer's report under paragraph (c)(3) of this section should (but is not required to) give a copy of the report to—


(A) The person to whom the first taxpayer sells the taxable fuel; or


(B) The owner of the taxable fuel immediately before the imposition of the first tax, if the first taxpayer is not the owner at that time.


(iii) *By person receiving first taxpayer's report.* A person that receives a copy of the first taxpayer's report and subsequently sells (within the meaning of § 48.4081-1)) the taxable fuel within the bulk transfer/terminal system must give the copy and a statement that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to the buyer. A person that receives a copy of the first taxpayer's report and subsequently sells the taxable fuel outside the bulk transfer/terminal system should (but is not required to) give the copy and a statement that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to the buyer, if that person expects that another tax will be imposed under section 4081 with respect to the taxable fuel.


(iv) *Form of statement*—(A) *In general.* A statement satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (c)(4)(iv) if it is provided at the bottom or on the back of the copy of the first taxpayer's report (or in an attached document). This statement must contain all information necessary to complete the model statement provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iv)(B) of this section (or such other model statement as the Commissioner may prescribe) but need not be in the same format.


(B) *Model statement describing subsequent sale.*

(v) *Sale to multiple buyers.* If the first taxpayer's report relates to taxable fuel divided among more than one buyer, multiple copies of the first taxpayer's report must be made at the stage that the taxable fuel is divided and each buyer must be given a copy of the report.


(d) *Form and content of claim*—(1) *In general.* The following rules apply to claims for refund under section 4081(e):


(i) The claim must be made by the person that paid the second tax to the government and must include all the information described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(ii) The claim must be made on Form 8849 (or such other form as the Commissioner may designate) in accordance with the instructions on the form. The form should be marked *Section 4081(e) Claim* at the top. Section 4081(e) claims must not be included with a claim for a refund under any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code.


(2) *Information to be included in the claim.* Each claim for a refund under section 4081(e) must contain the following information with respect to the taxable fuel covered by the claim:


(i) Volume and type of taxable fuel.


(ii) Date on which the claimant incurred the tax liability to which this claim relates (the second tax).


(iii) Amount of second tax that claimant paid to the government and a statement that claimant has not included the amount of this tax in the sales price of the taxable fuel to which this claim relates and has not collected that amount from the person that bought the taxable fuel from claimant.


(iv) Name, address, and employer identification number of the person that paid the first tax to the government.


(v) A copy of the first taxpayer's report that relates to the taxable fuel covered by the claim.


(vi) If the taxable fuel covered by the claim was bought other than from the first taxpayer, a copy of the statement of subsequent seller that the claimant received with respect to that taxable fuel.


(e) *Time for filing claim.* A claim for refund under section 4081(e) may be filed any time after the claimant has filed the return of the second tax and before the end of the period prescribed by section 6511 for the filing of a claim for a refund.


(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section.


(g) *Effective date.* This section is effective in the case of taxable fuel with respect to which the first tax is imposed after September 30, 1995.



---

[N] [T.D. 8421, 57 FR 32424, July 22, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8609, 60 FR 40086, Aug. 7, 1995; T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10457, Mar. 14, 1996; T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17157, Mar. 31, 2000]




