# ยง 1437.6   Coverage period.

(a) *Coverage period.* The coverage period is the time during which coverage is available against prevented planting, a loss of production, or loss of value, as applicable, of the eligible crop as a result of an eligible cause of loss specified in ยง 1437.10. Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, coverage periods start no earlier than 1 calendar day after date of filing of a valid application for coverage as specified in ยง 1437.7.




(1) If an application for coverage is filed within 30 calendar days of the end of a coverage period, the application for coverage is invalid and will not be processed by FSA. In the event the application for coverage is invalid as discussed in this paragraph, service fees will not be refunded.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, coverage is never retroactive.


(b) *Annual crops.* Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the coverage period for annual crops, including annual forage crops,


(1) Begins the later of:


(i) 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed; or


(ii) The date the crop is planted, not to exceed the late planting period; and


(2) Ends on the earlier of:


(i) The date harvest is complete;


(ii) The normal harvest date of the crop in the area;


(iii) The date the crop is abandoned; or


(iv) The date the crop is destroyed.


(c) *Biennial and perennial crops.* Except as otherwise specified in this part, the coverage period for biennial and perennial crops begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date. The coverage ends as determined by FSA.


(d) *Value loss crops.* Except as otherwise specified in this part, the coverage period for value loss crops, including ornamental nursery, aquaculture, Christmas tree crops, ginseng, and turfgrass sod; and other eligible crops, including floriculture and mushrooms begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date. The coverage ends the last day of the crop year, as determined by FSA.


(e) *Honey.* Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the coverage period for honey begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date of the application for coverage is filed; 1 calendar day after the application closing date; or the date the colonies are set in place for honey production. The coverage ends the last day of the crop year.




(f) *Maple sap.* Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the coverage period for maple sap begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day  after the application closing date. The coverage ends on the earlier of the date harvest is complete; or the normal harvest date.


(g) *Biennial and perennial forage crops.* Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, for biennial and perennial forage crops the coverage period begins the later of 1 calendar day after the date the application for coverage is filed or 1 calendar day after the application closing date; for first year seedings, the date the crop was planted; or the date following the normal harvest date. The coverage ends on the normal harvest date of the subsequent year.


(h) *2019 and 2020 crop years.* For the 2019 and 2020 crop years only, if a crop's application closing date is before April 8, 2019, the coverage period of the crop will be as specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section except that the date coverage begins will be retroactive as long as the application for coverage is filed by the application closing date as specified in ยง 1437.7(i). This limited retroactive coverage for the 2019 and 2020 crop years only will begin 1 calendar day after the established application closing date, which would be the same as if they had filed by the deadlines as specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 74574, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 12219, Mar. 2, 2020; 88 FR 1891, Jan. 11, 2023]




