# § 173.232   Articles containing hazardous materials, n.o.s.

(a) Articles containing hazardous materials may be classified as otherwise provided by this subchapter under the proper shipping name for the hazardous materials they contain or in accordance with this section. For the purposes of this section, “article” means machinery, apparatus, or other devices containing one or more hazardous materials (or residues thereof) that are an integral element of the article, necessary for its functioning, and that cannot be removed for the purpose of transport. An inner packaging is not an article. For articles that do not have an existing proper shipping name and that contain only hazardous materials within the permitted limited quantity amounts specified in column (8A) of the § 172.101 Table, see UN3363, Dangerous goods in machinery or apparatus, as prescribed in § 172.102(c)(1), Special provision 136, and § 173.222.


(b) Such articles may contain batteries. Lithium batteries that are integral to the article must be of a type proven to meet the testing requirements of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, Part III, subsection 38.3 (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter), except when otherwise specified by this subchapter.


(c) This section does not apply to articles for which a more specific proper shipping name already exists in the § 172.101 Table. This section does not apply to hazardous materials of Class 1, Division 6.2, Class 7, or radioactive material contained in articles.


(d) Articles containing hazardous materials must be assigned to the appropriate class or division determined by the hazards present using, where applicable, the precedence criteria prescribed in § 173.2a for each of the hazardous materials contained in the article. If hazardous materials classified as Class 9 are contained within the article, all other hazardous materials present in the article must be considered to present a higher hazard.


(e) Subsidiary hazards must be representative of the primary hazard posed by the other hazardous materials contained within the article. When only one item of hazardous materials is present in the article, the subsidiary hazard(s), if any, is the subsidiary hazard(s) identified in column 6 of the § 172.101 Table. If the article contains more than one item of hazardous materials and these could react dangerously with one another during transport, each of the hazardous materials must be enclosed separately.


(f)(1) Packagings must conform to the Packing Group II performance level. The following packagings are authorized:


(i) Drums (1A2, 1B2, 1N2, 1H2, 1D, 1G);


(ii) Boxes (4A, 4B, 4N, 4C1, 4C2, 4D, 4F, 4G, 4H1, 4H2); and


(iii) Jerricans (3A2, 3B2, 3H2).


(2) In addition, for robust articles, the following non-specification packagings are authorized:


(i) Strong outer packagings constructed of suitable material and of adequate strength and design in relation to the packaging capacity and its intended use. Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part, except for the requirements in §§ 173.24(a)(1) and 173.27(e).


(ii) Articles may be transported unpackaged or on pallets when the hazardous materials are afforded equivalent protection by the article in which they are contained.


(g) The nature of the containment must be as follows—


(1) In the event of damage to the receptacles containing the hazardous materials, no leakage of the hazardous materials from the machinery or apparatus is possible. A leakproof liner may be used to satisfy this requirement.


(2) Receptacles containing hazardous materials must be secured and cushioned so as to prevent their breakage or leakage and to control their movement within the machinery or apparatus during normal conditions of transportation. Cushioning material must not react dangerously with the content of the receptacles. Any leakage of the contents must not substantially impair the protective properties of the cushioning material.


(3) Receptacles for gases, their contents, and filling densities must conform to the applicable requirements of this subchapter, unless otherwise approved by the Associate Administrator.


(h) For transport by aircraft, the following additional requirements apply:


(1) Articles transported under UN3548, which do not have an existing proper shipping name, and which contain only environmentally hazardous substances where the quantity of the environmentally hazardous substance in the article exceeds 5 L or 5 kg, must be prepared for transport in accordance with this section for transport by air. In addition to the environmentally hazardous substance, the article may also contain lithium cells or batteries that comply with § 173.185(c)(4).


(2) Articles transported under UN3538, which do not have an existing proper shipping name, and which contain only gases of Division 2.2 without a subsidiary hazard, but excluding refrigerated liquefied gases and gases forbidden for transport on passenger aircraft, where the quantity of the Division 2.2 gas exceeds the quantity limits for UN 3363, as prescribed in § 173.222 must be prepared for transport in accordance with this section. Articles transported under this provision are limited to a maximum net quantity of gas of 75 kg by passenger aircraft and 150 kg by cargo-only aircraft. In addition to the Division 2.2 gas, the article may also contain lithium cells or batteries that comply with § 173.185(c)(4).





---

[N] [85 FR 27896, May 11, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 25486, Apr. 10, 2024]




