# § 86.448-2006   What provisions apply to vehicles certified under the Recreational-vehicle program?

(a) *General provisions.* If you are a highway-motorcycle manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce into commerce a new highway motorcycle with an engine below 50 cc if it is already certified to the requirements that apply to recreational vehicles under 40 CFR parts 1051. A highway motorcycle is a motorcycle that is a motor vehicle. If you comply with all of the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 1051 for each recreational vehicle to also be a valid certificate of conformity for the motor vehicle under this part 86 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 86. See § 86.447-2006 for similar provisions that apply to nonroad engines produced for highway motorcycles.


(b) *Nonrecreational-vehicle provisions.* If you are not a recreational-vehicle manufacturer, you may produce highway motorcycles from recreational vehicles with engines below 50 cc under this section as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the recreational vehicle or its engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for installation in a highway motorcycle, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new highway motorcycle. Such modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.


(c) *Liability.* Vehicles for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines and vehicles exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR part 1051. This applies to engine manufacturers, vehicle manufacturers, and all other persons as if the highway motorcycles were recreational vehicles. The prohibited acts of 42 U.S.C. 7522 apply to these new highway motorcycles; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 1051 for each recreational vehicle to also be a valid certificate of conformity for the highway motorcycle under this part 86 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines or vehicles do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 86 or 40 CFR 1068.505.


(d) *Specific requirements.* If you are a recreational-vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new highway motorcycle and its engine, the highway motorcycle is eligible for an exemption under this section:


(1) Your motorcycle must have an engine below 50 cc and it must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity as a recreational vehicle issued under 40 CFR part 1051.


(2) You must not make any changes to the certified recreational vehicle that we could reasonably expect to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes, you do not qualify for this exemption:


(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration.


(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the vehicle manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.


(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original vehicle manufacturer's specified ranges.


(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in highway motorcycles. This includes highway and off-highway motorcycles, without regard to which company completes the manufacturing of the highway motorcycle. Show this as follows:


(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information.


(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the vehicle to confirm this based on their sales information.


(4) The highway motorcycle must have the vehicle emission control information we require under 40 CFR part 1051.


(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the highway motorcycle in a position where it will remain clearly visible. In the supplemental label, do the following:


(i) Include the heading: “HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.


(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.


(iii) State: “THIS VEHICLE WAS ADAPTED FOR HIGHWAY USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.”.


(iv) State the date you finished modifying the vehicle (month and year), if applicable.


(6) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:


(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) List the highway motorcycle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year.


(iii) State: “We produced each listed highway motorcycle without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 86.448-2006.”.


(e) *Failure to comply.* If your highway motorcycles do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 86 and 40 CFR part 85, and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 1051 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 86. Introducing these motorcycles into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR part 85.


(f) *Data submission.* We may require you to send us emission test data on the duty cycle for Class I motorcycles.


(g) *Participation in averaging, banking and trading.* Recreational vehicles adapted for use as highway motorcycles under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 86. These engines may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 1051. These engines must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 1051 if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an applicable standard.



---

[N] [70 FR 40436, July 13, 2005]




