# § 573.450   Fermented ammoniated condensed whey.

(a) *Identity.* The product is produced by the *Lactobacillus delbrueckii* fermentation of whey with the addition of ammonia.


(b) *Specifications.* The product contains 35 to 55 percent crude protein and not more than 42 percent equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen sources.


(c) *Uses.* The product is used as a source of protein and nonprotein nitrogen for cattle.


(d) *Limitations.* (1) Store in a closed vented tank equipped for agitation. Agitate 5 minutes before using. Do not store at temperature above 110 °F (43 °C). 


(2) The maximum level of use of fermented ammoniated condensed whey and equivalent crude protein from all other added forms of nonprotein nitrogen shall not exceed 30 percent of the dietary crude protein. 


(3) The additive may be used as follows: 


(i) Mixed with grain, roughage, or grain and roughage prior to feeding. 


(ii) As a component of free-choice liquid feeds, used to supplement the diets of cattle fed other sources of nutrients, fermented ammoniated condensed whey shall not exceed 80 percent of the free-choice liquid feed.


(e) *Labeling.* The label shall bear, in addition to other information required by the act:


(1) The name of the additive.


(2) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen.


(3) Adequate directions for use in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.



---

[N] [43 FR 33708, July 1, 1978, as amended at 46 FR 49115, Oct. 6, 1981; 89 FR 67856, Aug. 22, 2024]

 




