# ยง 100.87   Volunteer activity for party committees.

The payment by a state or local committee of a political party of the costs of campaign materials (such as pins, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures, posters, party tabloids or newsletters, and yard signs) used by such committee in connection with volunteer activities on behalf of any nominee(s) of such party is not a contribution, provided that the following conditions are met: 


(a) *Exemption not applicable to general public communication or political advertising.* Such payment is not for cost incurred in connection with any broadcasting, newspaper, magazine, bill board, direct mail, or similar type of general public communication or political advertising. For purposes of this paragraph, the term *direct mail* means any mailing(s) by a commercial vendor or any mailing(s) made from commercial lists. 


(b) *Allocation.* The portion of the cost of such materials allocable to Federal candidates must be paid from contributions subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act. *But see* 11 CFR 100.24, 104.17(a), and part 300, subpart B for exempt activities that also constitute Federal election activity. 


(c) *Contributions designated for particular Federal candidates.* Such payment is not made from contributions designated by the donor to be spent on behalf of a particular candidate or candidates for Federal office. For purposes of this paragraph, a contribution shall not be considered a designated contribution if the party committee disbursing the funds makes the final decision regarding which candidate(s) shall receive the benefit of such disbursement. 


(d) *Distribution of materials by volunteers.* Such materials are distributed by volunteers and not by commercial or for-profit operations. For the purposes of this paragraph, payments by the party organization for travel and subsistence or customary token payments to volunteers do not remove such individuals from the volunteer category. 


(e) *Reporting.* If made by a political committee such payments shall be reported by the political committee as disbursements in accordance with 11 CFR 104.3 but need not be allocated to specific candidates in committee reports. 


(f) *State candidates and their campaign committees.* Payments by a State candidate or his or her campaign committee to a State or local political party committee for the State candidate's share of expenses for such campaign materials are not contributions, provided the amount paid by the State candidate or his or her committee does not exceed his or her proportionate share of the expenses. 


(g) *Exemption not applicable to campaign materials purchased by national party committees.* Campaign materials purchased by the national committee of a political party and delivered to a State or local party committee, or materials purchased with funds donated by the national committee to such State or local committee for the purchase of such materials, shall not qualify under this exemption. Rather, the cost of such materials shall be subject to the limitations of 52 U.S.C. 30116(d) and 11 CFR 109.32.



---

[N] [67 FR 50585, Aug. 5, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 78680, Dec. 26, 2002; 79 FR 77845, Dec. 29, 2014]




