# ยง 5001.457   Changes prior to loan closing.

(a) *Change in borrower prior to closing.* Any change in borrower ownership or organization prior to the issuance of the loan note guarantee must meet the applicable guaranteed program's eligibility requirements and must be approved by the Agency.


(b) *Transfer to new lender prior to issuance of the loan note guarantee.* Prior to issuance of the loan note guarantee, a lender can request a transfer of an outstanding conditional commitment to a new lender by providing the Agency with a letter from the lender, the borrower, and the proposed new lender. The request must include the reason(s) the current lender no longer desires to be the lender for the project.


(1) The Agency may approve the transfer from the current lender to the proposed new lender provided the new proposed lender is an eligible lender (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section) and no material adverse changes have occurred in the:


(i) Ownership, control or legal structure of the borrower; and


(ii) Borrower's written plan, scope of work, or the purpose or intent of the project.






(2) The Agency will determine if the proposed new lender is eligible in accordance with ยง 5001.130 of this part prior to approving the transfer of lender. The new lender must execute a new application form and a lender's agreement (unless the new lender already has a valid lender's agreement with the Agency) and must complete a new credit evaluation in accordance with ยง 5001.202 of this part. The Agency may require the new lender to provide other updated application items as specified by the Agency.


(3) If the Agency approves the transfer to the new lender, the Agency will issue a letter of amendment to the original conditional commitment reflecting the new lender who must acknowledge acceptance of the amended conditional commitment in writing.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]










