# § 555.41   General.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Licenses and permits issued on and after May 24, 2003*—(1) *In general.* (i) Each person intending to engage in business as an importer or manufacturer of, or a dealer in, explosive materials, including black powder, must, before commencing business, obtain the license required by this subpart for the business to be operated.


(ii) Each person who intends to acquire for use explosive materials within the State in which he resides on no more than 6 separate occasions during the 12-month period in which the permit is valid must obtain a limited permit under this subpart. (See § 555.105(b) for definition of “6 separate occasions.”)


(iii) Each person who intends to acquire for use explosive materials from a licensee or permittee in a State other than the State in which he resides, or from a foreign country, or who intends to transport explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce, or who intends to acquire for use explosive materials within the State in which he resides on more than 6 separate occasions during a 12-month period, must obtain a user permit under this subpart.


(iv) It is not necessary to obtain a permit if the user intends only to lawfully purchase commercially manufactured black powder in quantities not to exceed 50 pounds, intended to be used solely for sporting, recreational, or cultural purposes in antique firearms or in antique devices.


(2) *Importers, manufacturers, and dealers.* Each person intending to engage in business as an explosive materials importer, manufacturer, or dealer must file an application, with the required fee (*see* § 555.42), with ATF in accordance with the instructions on the form (*see* § 555.45). A license will, subject to law, entitle the licensee to transport, ship, and receive explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce, and to engage in the business specified by the license, at the location described on the license. A separate license must be obtained for each business premises at which the applicant is to manufacture, import, or distribute explosive materials except under the following circumstances:


(i) A separate license will not be required for storage facilities operated by the licensee as an integral part of one business premises or to cover a location used by the licensee solely for maintaining the records required by this part.


(ii) A separate license will not be required of a licensed manufacturer with respect to his on-site manufacturing.


(iii) It will not be necessary for a licensed importer or a licensed manufacturer (for purposes of sale or distribution) to also obtain a dealer's license in order to engage in business on his licensed premises as a dealer in explosive materials. No licensee will be required to obtain a user permit to lawfully transport, ship, or receive explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce.


(iv) A separate license will not be required of licensed manufacturers with respect to their on-site manufacture of theatrical flash powder.


(3) *Users of explosive materials.* (i) A limited permit will, subject to law, entitle the holder of such permit to receive for his use explosive materials from a licensee or permittee in his state of residence on no more than 6 separate occasions during the 12-month period in which the permit is valid. A limited permit does not authorize the receipt or transportation of explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce. Holders of limited permits who need to receive explosive materials on more than 6 separate occasions during a 12-month period must obtain a user permit in accordance with this subpart.


(ii) Each person intending to acquire explosive materials from a licensee in a State other than a State in which he resides, or from a foreign country, or who intends to transport explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce, must file an application for a user permit, with the required fee (*see* § 555.43), with ATF in accordance with the instructions on the form (*see* § 555.45). A user permit will, subject to law, entitle the permittee to transport, ship, and receive in interstate or foreign commerce explosive materials. Only one user permit per person is required under this part, irrespective of the number of locations relating to explosive materials operated by the holder of the user permit.



---

[N] [ATF No. 1, 68 FR 13783, Mar. 20, 2003, as amended by ATF 5F, 70 FR 30633, May 27, 2005; ATF 2017R-21, 84 FR 13799, Apr. 8, 2019]




