# ยง 3501.101   General.

(a) In accordance with 5 CFR 2635.105, the regulations in this part apply to employees of the Department of the Interior and supplement the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch contained in 5 CFR part 2635. In addition to the regulations in 5 CFR part 2635 and this part, employees of the Department are subject to the employee responsibilities and conduct regulations at 5 CFR part 735; the executive branch financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634; and the Department's employee responsibilities and conduct regulations at 43 CFR part 20.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this part:


(1) *Department* means the U.S. Department of the Interior and any of its components.


(2) *Bureau* means each major program operating component of the Department, the Office of the Secretary, the Office of the Solicitor, and the Office of the Inspector General.


(3) *Ethics Counselor* means the head of each bureau, except that the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy is the Ethics Counselor for employees within the Office of the Secretary.


(4) *Deputy Ethics Counselor* means the bureau personnel officer or other qualified headquarters employee who has been delegated responsibility for the operational duties of the Ethics Counselor for the bureau.


(c) *Bureau instructions.* With the concurrence of the Designated Agency Ethics Official, each Ethics Counselor is authorized, consistent with 5 CFR 2635.105(c), to issue explanatory guidance and establish procedures necessary to implement this part and part 2635 of this title for his or her bureau.



---

[N] [62 FR 53718, Oct. 16, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 34259, June 24, 1998]




