# § 192.461   External corrosion control: Protective coating.

(a) Each external protective coating, whether conductive or insulating, applied for the purpose of external corrosion control must—


(1) Be applied on a properly prepared surface; 


(2) Have sufficient adhesion to the metal surface to effectively resist underfilm migration of moisture; 


(3) Be sufficiently ductile to resist cracking; 


(4) Have sufficient strength to resist damage due to handling (including, but not limited to, transportation, installation, boring, and backfilling) and soil stress; and


(5) Have properties compatible with any supplemental cathodic protection. 


(b) Each external protective coating which is an electrically insulating type must also have low moisture absorption and high electrical resistance. 


(c) Each external protective coating must be inspected just prior to lowering the pipe into the ditch and backfilling, and any damage detrimental to effective corrosion control must be repaired. 


(d) Each external protective coating must be protected from damage resulting from adverse ditch conditions or damage from supporting blocks. 


(e) If coated pipe is installed by boring, driving, or other similar method, precautions must be taken to minimize damage to the coating during installation. 


(f) Promptly after the backfill of an onshore steel transmission pipeline ditch following repair or replacement (if the repair or replacement results in 1,000 feet or more of backfill length along the pipeline), but no later than 6 months after the backfill, the operator must perform an assessment to assess any coating damage and ensure integrity of the coating using direct current voltage gradient (DCVG), alternating current voltage gradient (ACVG), or other technology that provides comparable information about the integrity of the coating. Coating surveys must be conducted, except in locations where effective coating surveys are precluded by geographical, technical, or safety reasons.


(g) An operator must notify PHMSA in accordance with § 192.18 at least 90 days in advance of using other technology to assess integrity of the coating under paragraph (f) of this section.


(h) An operator of an onshore steel transmission pipeline must develop a remedial action plan and apply for any necessary permits within 6 months of completing the assessment that identified the deficiency. The operator must repair any coating damage classified as severe (voltage drop greater than 60 percent for DCVG or 70 dBµV for ACVG) in accordance with section 4 of NACE SP0502 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7) within 6 months of the assessment, or as soon as practicable after obtaining necessary permits, not to exceed 6 months after the receipt of permits.


(i) An operator of an onshore steel transmission pipeline must make and retain for the life of the pipeline records documenting the coating assessment findings and remedial actions performed under paragraphs (f) through (h) of this section.





---

[N] [Amdt. 192-4, 36 FR 12302, June 30, 1971, as amended by Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52268, Aug. 24, 2022]






