# ยง 28.51   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Banking institution* means a national bank.


(b) *Federal banking agencies* means the OCC, the FRB, and the FDIC.


(c) *International assets* means those assets required to be included in banking institutions' *Country Exposure Report* forms (FFIEC 009).


(d) *International loan* means a loan as defined in the instructions to the *Report of Condition and Income* for the respective banking institution (FFIEC 031, 032, 033 and 034) and made to a foreign government, or to an individual, a corporation, or other entity not a citizen of, resident in, or organized or incorporated in the United States.


(e) *Restructured international loan* means a loan that meets the following criteria: 


(1) The borrower is unable to service the existing loan according to its terms and is a resident of a foreign country in which there is a generalized inability of public and private sector obligors to meet their external debt obligations on a timely basis because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country; and 


(2) The terms of the existing loan are amended to reduce stated interest or extend the schedule of payments; or 


(3) A new loan is made to, or for the benefit of, the borrower, enabling the borrower to service or refinance the existing debt. 


(f) *Transfer risk* means the possibility that an asset cannot be serviced in the currency of payment because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country of the obligor. 



---

[N] [61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 57048, Oct. 26, 1998; 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]




