# § 272.43   Review and appeal procedures.

(a) *Exclusive procedures.* Notwithstanding the audit appeal procedures of part 205 of this chapter, the provisions of this section shall be the exclusive remedy available to an Operator for the review and appeal of any disallowance of subsidy for a M&R expense claimed or any penalty assessed pursuant to § 272.31.


(b) *Request for review.* An Operator may request review by:


(1) The Director, Office of Ship Operations, with respect to any disallowance by the Region office of a claimed M&R expense, after receiving the notification required by § 272.41(c); or


(2) The Director, Office of Financial Approvals, with respect to any disallowance of a claimed M&R expense, after receiving the notification required by § 272.42(b).


(c) *Timeliness of request.* The Operator shall file all requests for review pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section within 60 days after the date of the audit notification. Any disallowance with respect to which the Operator fails to file a timely request for review shall be final and shall not be subject to appeal to the Board pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) *Notification of review determination.* The appropriate MARAD Office Director shall notify the Operator by letter, with respect to each timely filed review request, of the Director's determination and the reasons for each disallowance and whether the determination is final or subject to the submission of additional information.


(e) *Appeal to the Maritime Subsidy Board*—(1) *Right to appeal.* An Operator may appeal a MARAD Office Director's final determination issued pursuant to § 272.32 (penalties) or § 272.43 (review of claims disallowance or of audit results) of this section to the Board in writing.


(2) *Contents and timeliness.* The Operator shall set forth in any appeal the reasons for the Operator's objection to a penalty or disallowance of M&R subsidy and shall file such appeal with the Secretary of the Board within 60 days after the date of the notification sent to the operator by the appropriate Director pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or § 272.33.




