# § 831.203   Continuation of coverage for employees of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.

(a) Permanent Federal Aviation Administration employees assigned to Washington National Airport or Dulles International Airport who elect to transfer to the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, retain their retirement coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code. 


(b) *Eligibility requirements.* To be eligible for continuation of retirement coverage, an employee must (1) be a permanent Federal Aviation Administration employee assigned to the Metropolitan Washington Airports who elects to transfer to the Airports Authority; (2) be subject to subchapter III chapter 83 of title 5 United States Code on the day before the date the lease takes effect; and (3) become continually employed by the Airports Authority without a break in service. A “break in service” means a separation from employment of at least 3 calendar days. 


(c) *Employee deductions.* Employees of the Airports Authority who have continuing coverage under title 5 retirement provisions are deemed to consent to deductions from their basic pay for the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. The amounts deducted will be the same as if the employees were still employed by the Federal Government. The Airports Authority must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts deducted from an employee's pay. 


(d) *Employer contributions.* The Airports Authority must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions that would be required for employees covered by the Civil Service Retirement System. 


(e) *Sick leave.* An employee who retires, or dies leaving a survivor entitled to an annuity, from the Airports Authority within the 5 year period beginning on the date the lease takes effect will be permitted to credit unused sick leave in his or her annuity computation. After the 5 year period, use of unused sick leave in the annuity computation will be permitted if the employee is under a formal leave system as defined in § 831.302.



---

[N] [52 FR 19125, May 21, 1987, and 53 FR 10055, Mar. 29, 1988. Redesignated at 53 FR 10055, Mar. 29, 1988] 




