# § 721.10711   Alkyl substituted catechol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl substituted catechol (PMN P-13-197) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4) (NIOSH-certified particulate respirator with an APF of at least 1,000), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., place policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of at least 1,000 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4);


(A) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a full face piece.


(B) NIOSH-certified pressure-demand supplied-air respirator equipped with a full face piece.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]




