# § 1010.45   Suspensions.

(a) *Suspension notice—prior to effective date.* (1) If it appears to the Director that a Statement of Record or an amendment is on its face incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, the Director shall so advise the developer, by issuing a suspension notice, within a reasonable time after the filing of such materials but prior to the time the materials would otherwise be effective.


(2) A suspension notice issued pursuant to this subsection shall suspend the effective date of the Statement of Record or the amendment. It shall continue in effect until 30 days, or such earlier date as the Director may determine, after the necessary amendments are submitted which correct all deficiencies cited in the notice.


(3) Upon receipt of a suspension notice, the developer has 15 days in which to request a hearing. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held within 20 days of the receipt of the request by the Director.


(b) *Suspension orders—subsequent to effective date.* (1) A notice of proceedings to suspend an effective Statement of Record may be issued to a developer if the Director has reasonable grounds to believe that an effective Statement of Record includes an untrue statement of a material fact, or omits a material fact required by the Act or rules and regulations, or omits a material fact which is necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Director may, after notice, and after opportunity for a hearing requested pursuant to § 1012.220 within 15 days of receipt of such notice, issue an order suspending the Statement of Record. In the event that a suspension order is issued, such order shall remain in effect until the developer has amended the Statement of Record or otherwise complied with the requirements of the order. When the developer has complied with the requirements of the order, the Director shall so declare and thereupon the suspension order shall cease to be effective.


(2) If the Director undertakes an examination of a developer or its records to determine whether a suspension order should be issued, and the developer fails to cooperate with the Director or obstructs, or refuses to permit the Director to make such examination, the Director may issue an order suspending the Statement of Record. Such order shall remain in effect until the developer has complied with the requirements of the order. When the developer has complied with the requirements of the order, the Director shall so declare and thereupon the suspension order shall cease to be effective. In accordance with the procedure described in § 1012.235, a hearing may be requested.


(3) Upon receipt of an amendment to an effective Statement of Record, the Director may issue an order suspending the Statement of Record until the amendment becomes effective if the Director has reasonable grounds to believe that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of purchasers. In accordance with the procedure described in § 1012.235, a hearing may be requested.


(4) Suspension orders issued pursuant to this subsection shall operate to suspend the Statement of Record as of the date the order is either served on the developer or its registered agent or is delivered by certified or registered mail to the address of the developer or its authorized agent.




