# ยง 1777.1   General.

(a) This part outlines Rural Utilities Service (RUS) policies and procedures for making Water and Waste Facility loans and grants authorized under Section 306C of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(c)), as amended.


(b) Agency officials will maintain liaison with officials of other federal, Tribal, state, regional, and local development agencies to coordinate related programs to achieve rural development objectives.


(c) Agency officials will cooperate with appropriate Tribal and state agencies in making loans and/or grants that support Tribal and state strategies for rural area development.


(d) Funds specifically appropriated for Tribal members in accordance with this part will be considered for use by Federally Recognized Tribes regardless of whether State development strategies include Tribes and their reservations. Tribal members residing on such reservations must have an equal opportunity to participate in this program.


(e) Entities eligible for a grant under the 306D Water Systems for Rural and Native Villages in Alaska Program are not eligible to receive grant assistance under this regulation from funds appropriated for Tribal members as referenced in paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) Federal statutes provide for extending the Agency's financial programs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, age, or physical/mental handicap (provided the participant possesses the capacity to enter into legal contracts).






