# ยง 345.307   Rate protest.

(a) *Request for reconsideration.* An employer may appeal a determination of a contribution rate computed under this part by filing a request for reconsideration with the Director of Policy and Systems within 90 days after the date on which the Board notified the employer of its rate of contribution for the next ensuing calendar year. Within 45 days of the receipt of a request for reconsideration, the Director shall issue a decision on the protest.


(b) *Appeal to the Board.* An employer aggrieved by the decision of the Director of Policy and Systems under paragraph (a) of this section may appeal to the Board. Such appeal shall be filed with the Secretary to the Board within 30 days after the date on which the Director notified the employer of the decision on reconsideration. The Board may decide such appeal without a hearing or, in its discretion, may refer the matter to a hearings officer pursuant to part 319 of this chapter.


(c) *Decision of the Board final.* Subject to judicial review provided for in section 5(f) of the RUIA, the decision of the Board under paragraph (b) of this section is final with respect to all issues determined therein. 


(d) *Waiver of time limits.* A request for reconsideration or appeal under this section shall be forfeited if the request or appeal is not filed within the time prescribed, unless reasonable cause, as defined in this part, for failure to file timely is shown. 


(e) *Rate pending review.* Pending review of the protested rate, the employer shall continue to pay contributions at such rate. Any adjustment in the contributions paid at such rate as the result of an appeal shall be in accordance with ยง 345.118 of this part. 


(f) The amount of a contribution, interest, or penalty may be protested in accord with ยง 345.124 of this part.



---

[N] [67 FR 13568, Mar. 25, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 13764, Mar. 17, 2015]




