# § 3430.1102   Definitions.

The definitions applicable to the FINI grants program under this subpart include:


*Community food assessment* means a collaborative and participatory process that systematically examines a broad range of community food issues and assets, so as to inform change actions to make the community more food secure.


*Emergency feeding organization* means a public or nonprofit organization that administers activities and projects (including the activities and projects of a charitable institution, a food bank, a food pantry, a hunger relief center, a soup kitchen, or a similar public or private nonprofit eligible recipient agency) providing nutrition assistance to relieve situations of emergency and distress through the provision of food to needy persons, including low-income and unemployed persons. (See 7 U.S.C. 7501).


*Exemplary practices* means high quality community food security work that emphasizes food security, nutritional quality, environmental stewardship, and economic and social equity.


*Expert reviewers* means individuals selected from among those recognized as uniquely qualified by training and experience in their respective fields to give expert advice on the merit of grant applications in such fields who evaluate eligible proposals submitted to this program in their respective area(s) of expertise.


*Food security* means access to affordable, nutritious, and culturally appropriate food for all people at all times.


*Fruits and vegetables* means, for the purposes of the incentives provided under these grants, any variety of fresh, canned, dried, or frozen whole or cut fruits and vegetables without added sugars, fats or oils, and salt (*i.e.* sodium).


*Logic model* means a systematic and visual way to present and share an understanding of the relationships among resources available to operate a program, and includes: Planned activities and anticipated results; and the presentation of the resources, inputs, activities, outputs, outcomes and impacts.


*Outcomes* means the changes in the wellbeing of individuals that can be attributed to a particular project, program, or policy, or that a program hopes to achieve over time. They indicate a measurable change in participant knowledge, attitudes, or behaviors.


*Process evaluation* means examining program activities in terms of:


(1) The age, sex, race, occupation, or other demographic variables of the target population;


(2) The program's organization, funding, and staffing; and


(3) The program's location and timing. Process evaluation focuses on program activities rather than outcomes.


*PromiseZone* refers to designated high-poverty communities “where the federal government will partner with and invest in communities to create jobs, leverage private investment, increase economic activity, expand educational opportunities, and improve public safety.” See *https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/promise-zones/.*

*Nonprofit organization* means a special type of organizationthat has been organized to meet specific tax-exempt purposes. To qualify for nonprofit status, your organizationmust be formed to benefit:


(1) The public;


(2) A specific group of individuals; or


(3) The membership of the nonprofit.


*StrikeForce* means the “USDA's StrikeForce Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity, which works to address the unique set of challenges faced by many of America's rural communities. Through StrikeForce, USDA is leveraging resources and collaborating with partners and stakeholders to improve economic opportunity and quality of life in these areas. See *http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome?navid=STRIKE_FORCE* for more information.


*Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)* means the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 *et seq.*).


*Value chain* means adding value to a product, including production, marketing, and the provision of after-sales service and incorporating fair pricing to farms. It also involves keeping the final pricing to customers within competitive range. Value chain development, therefore, is a process of building relationships between supplier and buyer that are reciprocal and win-win; instead of always striving to buy at lowest cost.




