# § 92.5   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Agency* means an Executive Agency as defined by section 105 of title 5, United States Code, the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Postal Rate Commission, a Military Department as defined by section 102 of title 5, United States Code, an agency or court in the judicial branch, an agency of the legislative branch, and any other independent establishments which are entities of the Federal Government. In DOT each operating element will act for the agency in collecting debts under this rule.


(b) *Creditor agency* means the agency to which the debt is owed.


(c) *Debt* means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include, but are not necessarily limited to, erronerous payments made to employees, overpayments of benefits, salary or other allowances, loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and all other similar sources. This term does not include a Government claim arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 1-9602) as amended; the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301-1397f); the tariff laws of the United States; or any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., emergency and travel advances under 5 U.S.C. 5522, 5705 or 5724 and employee training expenses under 5 U.S.C. 4108).


(d) *Debt Claim Form* means the form used by DOT when requesting that an agency, other than DOT, assist in the recovery of funds.


(e) *Delinquent debt* means a debt which has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written notification or applicable contractual agreement, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made by that date, or if, at any time thereafter, the debtor fails to satisfy obligations under a payment agreement with the creditor agency.


(f) *Disposable pay* means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. (See 5 CFR 581.105 (b) through (f) for items required by law to be withheld, and therefore excluded from disposable pay for the purposes of this regulation).


(g) *DOT operating element* (see 49 CFR 1.3) means a DOT Operating Administration including—


(1) U.S. Coast Guard.


(2) Federal Aviation Administration.


(3) Federal Highway Administration.


(4) Federal Railroad Administration.


(5) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


(6) Urban Mass Transportation Administration.


(7) St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.


(8) Maritime Administration.


(9) Research and Special Program Administration.


(10) The Office of the Secretary.


(h) *Employee* means a current or former employee of a Federal agency, including a member of the Armed Forces (including retired members) or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves). However, employees paid from non-appropriated funds are not included.


(i) *FCCS* means the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR Ch. II, jointly published by the Department of Justice and the General Accounting Office.


(j) *Hearing* means an informal conference before a hearing official in which the employee and the DOT operating element are given an opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument. The hearing official shall be either an administrative law judge or an individual not under the supervision or control of the Department.


(k) *Paying agency* means the agency authorizing the payment of the employee's current pay.


(l) *Salary offset* means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of a present or former employee with or without his or her consent. It includes a single offset from the final salary of an employee whose employment ends.


(m) *Waiver* means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or any other law. 




