# § 721.10057   Dodecanedioic acid, 1, 12-dihydrazide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as dodecanedioic acid, 1, 12-dihydrazide (PMNs P-01-759 and P-05-555; CAS No. 4080-98-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. The following NIOSH-approved respirators meet the minimum requirement for § 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; supplied air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece. Because the substance is a dermal sensitizer and irritates mucous membranes, half-face respirators do not provide adequate protection.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), and (g)(2)(i).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 32465, July 8, 2009]




