# § 1718.100   General.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this subpart is to set forth the policies, requirements, and procedures governing loan contracts entered into between the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) and distribution borrowers or, in some cases, other electric borrowers.


(b) *Flexibility for individual circumstances.* The intent of this subpart is to provide the flexibility to address the different needs and different credit risks of individual borrowers, and other special circumstances of individual lending situations. The model loan contract contained in appendix A of this subpart provides an example of what a loan contract with an “average” or “typical” distribution borrower may look like under “average” or “typical” circumstances. Depending on the credit risks and other circumstances of individual loans, RUS may execute loan contracts with provisions that are substantially different than those set forth in the model. RUS may develop alternative model loan contract provisions. If it does, such provisions will be made available to the public.


(c) *Resolution of any differences in contractual provisions.* If any provision of the loan contract appears to be in conflict with provisions of the mortgage, the loan contract shall have precedence with respect to the contractual relationship between the borrower and RUS with respect to such provision. If either document is silent on a matter addressed in the other document, the other document shall have precedence with respect to the contractual relationship between the borrower and RUS with respect to such matter.


(d) *Certain loan contract provisions subject to subsequent rulemaking.* If a loan contract provision imposes an obligation or limitation on the borrower whose interpretation or specification is subject to RUS regulations or the discretion of the Administrator or RUS, such interpretation or specification shall be subject to subsequent rulemaking. Such interpretation or specification of the borrower's obligations or limitations may not exceed the authority granted to the Administrator or RUS in the loan contract provision.




