# § 711.6   Chemical substances for which information is not required.

The following groups or categories of chemical substances are exempted from some or all of the reporting requirements of this part, with the following exception: A chemical substance described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (4), or (b) of this section is not exempted from any of the reporting requirements of this part if that chemical substance is the subject of a rule proposed or promulgated under TSCA sections 4, 5(a)(2), 5(b)(4), or 6, or is the subject of an enforceable consent agreement (ECA) developed under the procedures of 40 CFR part 790, or is the subject of an order issued under TSCA sections 4, 5(e), or 5(f), or is the subject of relief that has been granted under a civil action under TSCA sections 5 or 7.


(a) *Full exemptions.* The following categories of chemical substances are exempted from the reporting requirements of this part.


(1) *Polymers.* (i) Any chemical substance described with the word fragments “*polym,” “*alkyd,” or “*oxylated” in the Chemical Abstracts (CA) Index Name in the Master Inventory File, where the asterisk (*) in the listed word fragments indicates that any sets of characters may precede, or follow, the character string defined.


(ii) Any chemical substance that is identified in the Master Inventory File as an enzyme, lignin, a polysaccharide (cellulose, gum, starch), a protein (albumin, casein, gelatin, gluten, hemoglobin), rubber, siloxane and silicone, or silsesquioxane.


(iii) This exclusion does not apply to a polymeric substance that has been depolymerized, hydrolyzed, or otherwise chemically modified, except in cases where the intended product of this reaction is totally polymeric in structure.


(2) *Microorganisms.* Any combination of chemical substances that is a living organism, and that meets the definition of *microorganism* at 40 CFR 725.3. Any chemical substance produced from a living microorganism is reportable under this part unless otherwise excluded.


(3) *Naturally occurring chemical substances.* Any naturally occurring chemical substance, as described in 40 CFR 710.4(b). The applicability of this exclusion is determined in each case by the specific activities of the person who manufactures the chemical substance in question. Some chemical substances can be manufactured both as described in 40 CFR 710.4(b) and by means other than those described in 40 CFR 710.4(b). If a person described in § 711.8 manufactures a chemical substance by means other than those described in 40 CFR 710.4(b), the person must report regardless of whether the chemical substance also could have been produced as described in 40 CFR 710.4(b). Any chemical substance that is produced from such a naturally occurring chemical substance described in 40 CFR 710.4(b) is reportable unless otherwise excluded.


(4) *Water and certain forms of natural gas.* Chemical substances with the following Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number (CASRN): CASRN 7732-18-5, water; CASRN 8006-14-2, natural gas; CASRN 8006-61-9, gasoline, natural; CASRN 64741-48-6, natural gas (petroleum), raw liq. mix; CASRN 68410-63-9, natural gas, dried; CASRN 68425-31-0, gasoline (natural gas), natural; and CASRN 68919-39-1, natural gas condensates.


(b) *Partial exemptions.* The following groups of chemical substances are partially exempted from the reporting requirements of this part (*i.e.,* the information described in § 711.15(b)(4) need not be reported for these chemical substances). Such chemical substances are not excluded from the other reporting requirements under this part.


(1) *Petroleum process streams.* EPA has designated the chemical substances listed in Table 1 of this paragraph by CASRN, as partially exempt from reporting under the CDR.


(2) *Specific exempted chemical substances*—(i) *Exemption.* EPA has determined that, at this time, the information in § 711.15(b)(4) associated with the chemical substances listed in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section is of low current interest.


(ii) *Considerations.* In making its determination of whether this partial exemption should apply to a particular chemical substance, EPA will consider the totality of information available for the chemical substance in question, including but not limited to, one or more of the following considerations:


(A) Whether the chemical substance qualifies or has qualified in past IUR or CDR collections for the reporting of the information described in § 711.15(b)(4).


(B) The chemical substance's chemical and physical properties or potential for persistence, bioaccumulation, health effects, or environmental effects (considered independently or together).


(C) The information needs of EPA, other Federal agencies, Tribes, States, and local governments, as well as members of the public.


(D) The availability of other complementary risk screening information.


(E) The availability of comparable processing and use information.


(F) Whether the potential risks of the chemical substance are adequately managed.


(iii) *Amendments.* EPA may amend the chemical substance list in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section on its own initiative or in response to a request from the public based on EPA's determination of whether the information in § 711.15(b)(4) is of low interest.


(A) Any person may request that EPA amend the chemical substance list in Table 2 in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section. Your request must be in writing and must be submitted to the address provided in 40 CFR 700.17(a). Please label your request as follows: Attention: TSCA Chemical Data Reporting—Partial Exemption Request. Requests must identify the chemical substance in question, as well as its CASRN or other chemical identification number as identified in § 711.15(b)(3)(i), and must contain a written rationale for the request that provides sufficient specific information, addressing the considerations listed in § 711.6(b)(2)(ii), including cites and relevant documents, to demonstrate to EPA that the collection of the information in § 711.15(b)(4) for the chemical substance in question either is or is not of low current interest. If a request related to a particular chemical substance is resubmitted, any subsequent request must clearly identify new information contained in the request. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the request. EPA will issue a written response to each request within 120 days of receipt of the request, and will maintain copies of these responses in a docket that will be established for each reporting cycle.


(B) As needed, the Agency will initiate rulemaking to make revisions to Table 2 in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.


(C) To assist EPA in reaching a decision regarding a particular request prior to a given principal reporting year, requests must be submitted to EPA no later than 12 months prior to the start of the next principal reporting year.


(iv) *List of chemical substances.* EPA has designated the chemical substances listed in Table 2 of this paragraph by CASRN, as partially exempt from reporting under the CDR.





---

[N] [76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 35098, June 19, 2014; 79 FR 66658, Nov. 10, 2014; 81 FR 17395, Mar. 29, 2016; 85 FR 20138, Apr. 9, 2020]





