# § 70.42   Returns prepared or executed by appropriate TTB officers.

(a) *Preparation of returns*—(1) *General.* If any person, required by provisions of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau or by the regulations prescribed thereunder to make a return, fails to make such return, it may be prepared by an appropriate TTB officer provided the person required to make the return consents to disclose all information necessary for the preparation of such return. The return upon being signed by the person required to make it must be received by the appropriate TTB officer, as the return of such person. 


(2) *Responsibility of person for whom return is prepared.* A person for whom a return is prepared in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall for all legal purposes remain responsible for the correctness of the return to the same extent as if the return had been prepared by such person.


(b) *Execution of returns*—(1) *General.* If any person, required by provisions of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau or by the regulations prescribed thereunder to make a return, fails to make a return at the time prescribed therefor, or makes, willfully or otherwise, a false or fraudulent return, the appropriate TTB officer must make such return from such officer's own knowledge and from such information as the officer can obtain through testimony or otherwise. 


(2) *Status of returns.* Any return made in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and subscribed by the appropriate TTB officer is prima facie good and sufficient for all legal purposes. 


(c) *Cross references.* (1) For provisions that the return executed by an appropriate TTB officer will not start the running of the period of limitations on assessment and collection, see 26 U.S.C. 6501(b)(3) and § 70.222(b) of this part. 


(2) For additions to the tax and additional amounts for failure to file returns, see section 6651 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(3) For additions to the tax for failure to pay tax, see sections 5684, 5761, and 6653 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(4) For failure to make deposit of taxes or overstatement of deposit claims, see section 6656 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(5) For an additional penalty for tendering a bad check or money order, see section 6657 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(6) For certain failures to pay tax with respect to cases pending under Title 11 of the United States Code, see section 6658 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(7) For failure to supply identifying numbers, see section 6676 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(8) For penalties for aiding and abetting understatement of tax liability, see section 6701 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(9) For criminal penalties for willful failure to make returns, see sections 7201, 7202, and 7203 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(10) For criminal penalties for willfully making false or fraudulent returns, see sections 7206 and 7207 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(11) For authority to examine books and witnesses, see section 7602 of the Internal Revenue Code and § 70.22.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-251, 52 FR 19314, May 22, 1987. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47606, 47610, Nov. 14, 1990; T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29024, May 29, 2001]




