# § 522.1192   Ivermectin.

(a) *Specifications.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) Each mL of solution contains 10 mg ivermectin.


(3) Each mL of solution contains 2.7 mg ivermectin.


(b) *Sponsors.* See sponsors in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for use as in paragraph (e) of this section.




(1) Nos. 000010, 016592, 055529, 058005, and 061133 for use of the product described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as in paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(5) of this section; and


(2) No. 000010 for use of the product described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section as in paragraphs (e)(3) and (e)(6) of this section.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.344 of this chapter.


(d) *Special considerations.* (1) See § 500.25 of this chapter.


(2) Labeling shall bear the following precaution: “This product should not be used in other animal species as severe adverse reactions, including fatalities in dogs, may result.”


(e) *Conditions of use*—(1) [Reserved]


(2) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* 200 micrograms per kilogram (µg/kg) of body weight by subcutaneous injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment and control of gastrointestinal nematodes (adults and fourth-stage larvae) (*Haemonchus placei*, *Ostertagia ostertagi* (including inhibited larvae), *O. lyrata*, *Trichostrongylus axei*, *T. colubriformis*, *Cooperia oncophora*, *C. punctata*, *C. pectinata*, *Oesophagostomum radiatum*, *Nematodirus helvetianus* (adults only), *N. spathiger* (adults only), *Bunostomum phlebotomum*); lungworms (adults and fourth-stage larvae) (*Dictyocaulus viviparus*); grubs (parasitic stages) (*Hypoderma bovis*, *H. lineatum*); sucking lice (*Linognathus vituli*, *Haematopinus eurysternus*, *Solenopotes capillatus*); mites (*scabies*) (*Psoroptes ovis* (syn. *P. communis* var. *bovis*), *Sarcoptes scabiei* var. *bovis*). For control of infections and to protect from reinfection with *D. viviparus* and *O. radiatum* for 28 days after treatment; *O. ostertagi*, *T. axei*, and *C. punctata* for 21 days after treatment; *H. placei* and *C. oncophora* for 14 days after treatment.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not treat cattle within 35 days of slaughter. Because a withdrawal time in milk has not been established, do not use in female dairy cattle of breeding age. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in pre-ruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal.


(3) *Swine*—(i) *Amount.* 300 µg/kg of body weight by subcutaneous injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment and control of gastrointestinal roundworms (adults and fourth-stage larvae) (large roundworm, *Ascaris suum*; red stomach worm, *Hyostrongylus rubidus*; nodular worm, *Oesophagostomum* spp.; threadworm, *Strongyloides ransomi* (adults only)); somatic roundworm larvae (threadworm, *S. ransomi* (somatic larvae)); lungworms (*Metastrongylus* spp. (adults only)); lice (*H. suis*); and mites (*S. scabiei* var. *suis*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not treat swine within 18 days of slaughter.


(4) *American bison*—(i) *Amount.* 200 µg/kg of body weight by subcutaneous injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment and control of grubs (*H. bovis*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not slaughter within 56 days of last treatment.


(5) *Reindeer*—(i) *Amount.* 200 µg/kg of body weight by subcutaneous injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment and control of warbles (*Oedemagena tarandi*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not treat reindeer within 56 days of slaughter.


(6) *Ranch-raised foxes*—(i) *Amount.* 200 µg/kg of body weight by subcutaneous injection. Repeat in 3 weeks.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment and control of ear mites (*Otodectes cynotis*).



---

[N] [72 FR 27735, May 17, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 62771, Nov. 7, 2007; 74 FR 9049, Mar. 2, 2009; 75 FR 26647, May 12, 2010; 76 FR 57906, Sept. 19, 2011; 78 FR 17597, Mar. 22, 2013; 81 FR 59134, Aug. 29, 2016; 84 FR 8974, Mar. 13, 2019; 84 FR 32992, July 11, 2019; 84 FR 39184, Aug. 9, 2019; 88 FR 27699, May 3, 2023]




