# § 485.70   Personnel qualifications.

This section sets forth the qualifications that must be met, as a condition of participation, under § 485.58, and as a condition of coverage of services under § 410.100 of this chapter. 


(a) A facility physician must be a doctor of medicine or osteopathy who—


(1) Is licensed under State law to practice medicine or surgery; and


(2) Has had, subsequent to completing a 1-year hospital internship, at least 1 year of training in the medical management of patients requiring rehabilitation services; or


(3) Has had at least 1 year of full-time or part-time experience in a rehabilitation setting providing physicians' services similar to those required in this subpart.


(b) A licensed practical nurse must be licensed as a practical or vocational nurse by the State in which practicing, if applicable. 


(c) An occupational therapist and an occupational therapy assistant must meet the qualifications in § 484.115 of this chapter.


(d) An orthotist must—


(1) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable;


(2) Have successfully completed a training program in orthotics that is jointly recognized by the American Council on Education and the American Board for Certification in Orthotics and Prosthetics; and


(3) Be eligible to take that Board's certification examination in orthotics.


(e) A physical therapist and a physical therapist assistant must meet the qualifications in § 484.115 of this chapter.


(f) A *prosthetist* must—


(1) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable;


(2) Have successfully completed a training program in prosthetics that is jointly recognized by the American Council on Education and the American Board for Certification in Orthotics and Prosthetics; and


(3) Be eligible to take that Board's certification examination in prosthetics.


(g) A *psychologist* must be certified or licensed by the State in which he or she is practicing, if that State requires certification or licensing, and must hold a masters degree in psychology from and educational institution approved by the State in which the institution is located.


(h) A *registered nurse* must be a graduate of an approved school of nursing and be licensed as a registered nurse by the State in which practicing, if applicable.


(i) A *rehabilitation counselor* must—


(1) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable;


(2) Hold at least a bachelor's degree; and


(3) Be eligible to take the certification examination administered by the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification.


(j) A respiratory therapist must complete one the following criteria:


(1) *Criterion 1.* All of the following must be completed:


(i) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable.


(ii) Have successfully completed a nationally-accredited educational program for respiratory therapists.


(iii)(A) Be eligible to take the registry examination administered by the National Board for Respiratory Care for respiratory therapists; or


(B) Have passed the registry examination administered by the National Board for Respiratory Care for respiratory therapists.


(2) *Criterion 2:* All of the following must be completed:


(i) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable.


(ii) Have equivalent training and experience as determined by the National Board for Respiratory Care.


(k) A *respiratory therapy technician* must—


(1) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable;


(2) Have successfully completed a training program accredited by the Committees on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) in collaboration with the Joint Review Committee for Respiratory Therapy Education; and


(3) Either—


(i) Be eligible to take the certification examination for respiratory therapy technicians administered by the National Board for Respiratory Therapy, Inc,; or


(ii) Have equivalent training and experience as determined by the National Board for Respiratory Therapy, Inc.


(l) A *social worker* must—


(1) Be licensed by the State in which practicing, if applicable;


(2) Hold at least a bachelor's degree from a school accredited or approved by the Council on Social Work Education; and


(3) Have 1 year of social work experience in a health care setting.


(m) A speech-language pathologist must meet the qualifications set forth in part 484 of this chapter.



---

[N] [48 FR 56293, Dec. 15, 1982. Redesignated and amended at 50 FR 33034, Aug. 16, 1985; 51 FR 41352, Nov. 14, 1986; 60 FR 2327, Jan. 9, 1995; 72 FR 66408, Nov. 27, 2007; 73 FR 69941, Nov. 19, 2008; 74 FR 62014, Nov. 25, 2009; 82 FR 4591, Jan. 13, 2017; 86 FR 61622, Nov. 5, 2021; 88 FR 36510, June 5, 2023]




