# ยง 2470.2   Definitions.

(a) The terms *agency, labor organization,* and *conditions of employment* as used in this subchapter shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a). When used in connection with 3 U.S.C. 431, the term *agency* as used in the Panel's regulations in this subchapter means an employing office as defined in 3 U.S.C. 401(a)(4).


(b) The term *Executive Director* means the Executive Director of the Panel.


(c) The terms *designated representative* or *designee* of the Panel means a Panel member, a staff member, or other individual designated by the Panel to act on its behalf.


(d) The term *hearing* means a factfinding hearing, arbitration hearing, or any other hearing procedure deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 7119.


(e) The term *impasse* means that point in the negotiation of conditions of employment at which the parties are unable to reach agreement, notwithstanding their efforts to do so by direct negotiations and by the use of mediation or other voluntary arrangements for settlement.


(f) The term *Panel* means the Federal Service Impasses Panel described in 5 U.S.C. 7119(c) or a quorum thereof.


(g) The term *party* means the agency or the labor organization participating in the negotiation of conditions of employment.


(h) The term *quorum* means a majority of the members of the Panel.


(i) The term *voluntary arrangements* means any method adopted by the parties for the purpose of assisting them in their resolution of a negotiation dispute which is not inconsistent with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7119.



---

[N] [45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 19693, May 2, 1983; 63 FR 46159, Aug. 31, 1998]




