# ยง 850.209   Covered foreign person.

(a) The term *covered foreign person* means:


(1) A person of a country of concern that engages in a covered activity; or


(2) A person that directly or indirectly holds a board seat on, a voting or equity interest (other than through securities or interests that would satisfy the conditions in ยง 850.501(a) if held by a U.S. person) in, or any contractual power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of any person or persons described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from or through which it:


(i) Derives more than 50 percent of its revenue individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it derives at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its revenue, on an annual basis;


(ii) Derives more than 50 percent of its net income individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it derives at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its net income, on an annual basis;


(iii) Incurs more than 50 percent of its capital expenditure individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it incurs at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its capital expenditure, on an annual basis; or


(iv) Incurs more than 50 percent of its operating expenses individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it incurs at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its operating expenses, on an annual basis.


(3) With respect to a covered transaction described in ยง 850.210(a)(5), the person of a country of concern that participates in the joint venture is deemed to be a covered foreign person by virtue of its participation in the joint venture.


(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section:


(1) Calculations shall be based on an audited financial statement from the most recent year. If an audited financial statement is not available, the most recent unaudited financial statement shall be used instead. If no financial statement is available, an independent appraisal shall be used instead. If no independent appraisal is available, a good-faith estimate shall be used instead.


(2) Where an amount is not denominated in U.S. dollars, the U.S. dollar equivalent shall be determined based on the most recent published rate of exchange available on the Department of the Treasury's website.


