# § 169.150   Salad dressing.

(a) *Description.* Salad dressing is the emulsified semisolid food prepared from vegetable oil(s), one or both of the acidifying ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section, one or more of the egg yolk-containing ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and a starchy paste prepared as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. One or more of the ingredients in paragraph (e) of this section may also be used. The vegetable oil(s) used may contain an optional crystallization inhibitor as specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section. All the ingredients from which the food is fabricated shall be safe and suitable. Salad dressing contains not less than 30 percent by weight of vegetable oil and not less egg yolk-containing ingredient than is equivalent in egg yolk solids content to 4 percent by weight of liquid egg yolks. Salad dressing may be mixed and packed in an atmosphere in which air is replaced in whole or in part by carbon dioxide or nitrogen.


(b) *Acidifying ingredients.* (1) Any vinegar or any vinegar diluted with water, or any such vinegar or diluted vinegar mixed with an optional acidifying ingredient as specified in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. For the purpose of this paragraph, any blend of two or more vinegars is considered to be a vinegar.


(2) Lemon juice and/or lime juice in any appropriate form, which may be diluted with water.


(c) *Egg yolk-containing ingredients.* Liquid egg yolks, frozen egg yolks, dried egg yolks, liquid whole eggs, frozen whole eggs, dried whole eggs, or any one of more of the foregoing ingredients listed in this paragraph with liquid egg white or frozen egg white.


(d) *Starchy paste.* It may be prepared from a food starch, food starch-modified, tapioca flour, wheat flour, rye flour, or any two or more of these. Water may be added in the preparation of the paste.


(e) *Other optional ingredients.* The following optional ingredients may also be used:


(1) Salt.


(2) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.


(3) Any spice (except saffron or turmeric) or natural flavoring, provided it does not impart to the salad dressing a color simulating the color imparted by egg yolk.


(4) Monosodium glutamate.


(5) Stabilizers and thickeners. Dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate may be added in accordance with § 172.810 of this chapter.


(6) Citric and/or malic acid may be used in an amount not greater than 25 percent of the weight of the acids of the vinegar or diluted vinegar calculated as acetic acid.


(7) Sequestrant(s), including but not limited to calcium disodium EDTA (calcium disodium ethylenediamine-tetraacetate) and/or disodium EDTA (disodium ethylenediamine-tetraactetate), may be used to preserve color and/or flavor.


(8) Crystallization inhibitors, including but not limited to oxystearin, lecithin, or polyglycerol esters of fatty acids.


(f) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “Salad dressing”.


(g) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14481, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 25325, May 17, 1977; 58 FR 2886, Jan. 6, 1993]




