# § 60.5365a   Am I subject to this subpart?

You are subject to the applicable provisions of this subpart if you are the owner or operator of one or more of the onshore affected facilities listed in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section, that is located within the Crude Oil and Natural Gas source category, as defined in § 60.5430a, for which you commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 18, 2015, and on or before December 6, 2022. Facilities located inside and including the Local Distribution Company (LDC) custody transfer station are not subject to this subpart. An affected facility must continue to comply with the requirements of this subpart until it begins complying with a more stringent requirement, that applies to the same affected facility, in an approved, and effective, state or Federal plan that implements subpart OOOOc of this part, or modifies or reconstructs after December 6, 2022, and thus becomes subject to subpart OOOOb of this part.


(a) Each well affected facility, which is a single well that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. The provisions of this paragraph do not affect the affected facility status of well sites for the purposes of § 60.5397a. The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section apply to wells that are hydraulically refractured: 


(1) A well that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing is not an affected facility, provided that the requirements of § 60.5375a(a)(1) through (4) are met. However, hydraulic refracturing of a well constitutes a modification of the well site for purposes of paragraph (i)(3)(iii) of this section, regardless of affected facility status of the well itself.


(2) A well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing not conducted pursuant to § 60.5375a(a)(1) through (4) is a modification to the well.


(3) Except as provided in § 60.5365a(i)(3)(iii), refracturing of a well, by itself, does not affect the modification status of other equipment, process units, storage vessels, compressors, pneumatic pumps, or pneumatic controllers.


(4) A well initially constructed after September 18, 2015, and on or before December 6, 2022, that conducts a well completion operation following hydraulic refracturing is considered an affected facility regardless of this provision.


(b) Each centrifugal compressor affected facility, which is a single centrifugal compressor using wet seals. A centrifugal compressor located at a well site, or an adjacent well site and servicing more than one well site, is not an affected facility under this subpart.


(c) Each reciprocating compressor affected facility, which is a single reciprocating compressor. A reciprocating compressor located at a well site, or an adjacent well site and servicing more than one well site, is not an affected facility under this subpart.


(d) Each pneumatic controller affected facility:


(1) Each pneumatic controller affected facility not located at a natural gas processing plant, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller operating at a natural gas bleed rate greater than 6 scfh.


(2) Each pneumatic controller affected facility located at a natural gas processing plant, which is a single continuous bleed natural gas-driven pneumatic controller.


(e) Each storage vessel affected facility, which is a single storage vessel as specified in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(1) A single storage vessel that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after September 18, 2015, and on or before November 16, 2020, is a storage vessel affected facility if its potential for VOC emissions is equal to or greater than 6 tons per year (tpy) as determined according to this paragraph (e)(1). The potential for VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology, based on the maximum average daily throughput (as defined in § 60.5430a) determined for a 30-day period prior to the applicable emission determination deadline specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv). The determination may take into account requirements under a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or tribal authority.


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, a single storage vessel that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after November 16, 2020, is a storage vessel affected facility if the potential for VOC emissions is equal to or greater than 6 tpy as determined according to paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section. The determination may take into account requirements under a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or tribal authority. The potential for VOC emissions is calculated on an individual storage vessel basis and is not averaged across the number of storage vessels at the site.


(i) For each storage vessel receiving liquids pursuant to the standards for well affected facilities in § 60.5375a, including wells subject to § 60.5375a(f), you must determine the potential for VOC emissions within 30 days after startup of production of the well, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section. The potential for VOC emissions must be calculated for each individual storage vessel using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology, based on the maximum average daily throughput, as defined in § 60.5430a, determined for a 30-day period of production.


(ii) For each storage vessel located at a compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant, you must determine the potential for VOC emissions prior to startup of the compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant using either method described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) Determine the potential for VOC emissions using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology and based on the throughput established in a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or tribal authority; or


(B) Determine the potential for VOC emissions using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology and based on projected maximum average daily throughput. Maximum average daily throughput is determined using a generally accepted engineering model (*e.g.,* volumetric condensate rates from the storage vessels based on the maximum gas throughput capacity of each producing facility) to project the maximum average daily throughput for the storage vessel.


(3) If a storage vessel battery, which consists of two or more storage vessels, meets all of the design and operational criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section through legally and practicably enforceable standards in a permit or other requirement established under Federal, state, local, or tribal authority, then each storage vessel in such storage vessel battery is a storage vessel affected facility.


(i) The storage vessels must be manifolded together with piping such that all vapors are shared among the headspaces of the storage vessels;


(ii) The storage vessels must be equipped with a closed vent system that is designed, operated, and maintained to route the vapors back to the process or to a control device;


(iii) The vapors collected in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section must be routed back to the process or to a control device that reduces VOC emissions by at least 95.0 percent; and


(iv) The VOC emissions, averaged across the number of storage vessels in the battery meeting all of the criteria of paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section, are equal to or greater than 6 tpy.


(v) If a storage vessel battery meeting all of the criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section through legally and practicably enforceable standards in a permit or other requirements established under Federal, state, local, or tribal authority, emits less than 6 tpy of VOC emissions averaged across the number of storage vessels in the battery, none of the storage vessels in the battery are storage vessel affected facilities.


(4) A storage vessel affected facility that subsequently has its potential for VOC emissions decrease to less than 6 tpy shall remain an affected facility under this subpart.


(5) For storage vessels not subject to a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under Federal, state, local, or tribal authority, any vapor from the storage vessel that is recovered and routed to a process through a VRU designed and operated as specified in this section is not required to be included in the determination of potential for VOC emissions for purposes of determining affected facility status, provided you comply with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) You meet the cover requirements specified in § 60.5411a(b).


(ii) You meet the closed vent system requirements specified in § 60.5411a(c) and (d).


(iii) You must maintain records that document compliance with paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(iv) In the event of removal of apparatus that recovers and routes vapor to a process, or operation that is inconsistent with the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must determine the storage vessel's potential for VOC emissions according to this section within 30 days of such removal or operation.


(6) The requirements of this paragraph (e)(6) apply to each storage vessel affected facility immediately upon startup, startup of production, or return to service. A storage vessel affected facility that is reconnected to the original source of liquids is a storage vessel affected facility subject to the same requirements that applied before being removed from service. Any storage vessel that is used to replace any storage vessel affected facility is subject to the same requirements that applied to the storage vessel affected facility being replaced.


(7) A storage vessel with a capacity greater than 100,000 gallons used to recycle water that has been passed through two stage separation is not a storage vessel affected facility.


(f) The group of all equipment within a process unit at an onshore natural gas processing plant is an affected facility.


(1) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement that is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.


(2) Equipment associated with a compressor station, dehydration unit, sweetening unit, underground storage vessel, field gas gathering system, or liquefied natural gas unit is covered by §§ 60.5400a, 60.5401a, 60.5402a, 60.5421a, and 60.5422a if it is located at an onshore natural gas processing plant. Equipment not located at the onshore natural gas processing plant site is exempt from the provisions of §§ 60.5400a, 60.5401a, 60.5402a, 60.5421a, and 60.5422a.


(3) The equipment within a process unit of an affected facility located at onshore natural gas processing plants and described in paragraph (f) of this section are exempt from this subpart if they are subject to and controlled according to subparts VVa, GGG, or GGGa of this part.


(g) Sweetening units located at onshore natural gas processing plants that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 18, 2015, and on or before November 16, 2020, and sweetening units that commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 16, 2020.


(1) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas produced from either onshore or offshore wells is an affected facility; and


(2) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas followed by a sulfur recovery unit is an affected facility.


(3) Facilities that have a design capacity less than 2 long tons per day (LT/D) of hydrogen sulfide (H_2_S) in the acid gas (expressed as sulfur) are required to comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 60.5423a(c) but are not required to comply with §§ 60.5405a through 60.5407a and §§ 60.5410a(g) and 60.5415a(g).


(4) Sweetening facilities producing acid gas that is completely re-injected into oil-or-gas-bearing geologic strata or that is otherwise not released to the atmosphere are not subject to §§ 60.5405a through 60.5407a, 60.5410a(g), 60.5415a(g), and 60.5423a.


(h) Each pneumatic pump affected facility:


(1) For natural gas processing plants, each pneumatic pump affected facility, which is a single natural gas-driven diaphragm pump.


(2) For well sites, each pneumatic pump affected facility, which is a single natural gas-driven diaphragm pump. A single natural gas-driven diaphragm pump that is in operation less than 90 days per calendar year is not an affected facility under this subpart provided the owner/operator keeps records of the days of operation each calendar year and submits such records to the EPA Administrator (or delegated enforcement authority) upon request. For the purposes of this section, any period of operation during a calendar day counts toward the 90 calendar day threshold.


(i) Except as provided in § 60.5365a(i)(2), the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, as defined in § 60.5430a, is an affected facility.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) A well site that only contains one or more wellheads is not an affected facility under this subpart. The affected facility status of a separate tank battery surface site has no effect on the affected facility status of a well site that only contains one or more wellheads.


(3) For purposes of § 60.5397a, a “modification” to a well site occurs when:


(i) A new well is drilled at an existing well site;


(ii) A well at an existing well site is hydraulically fractured; or


(iii) A well at an existing well site is hydraulically refractured.


(4) For purposes of § 60.5397a, a “modification” to an existing source separate tank battery surface site occurs when:


(i) Any of the actions in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section occurs at an existing source separate tank battery surface site;


(ii) A well sending production to an existing source separate tank battery site is modified, as defined in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section; or


(iii) A well site subject to the requirements in § 60.5397a removes all major production and processing equipment, as defined in § 60.5430a, such that it becomes a wellhead only well site and sends production to an existing source separate tank battery surface site.


(j) The collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station, as defined in § 60.5430a, is an affected facility. For purposes of § 60.5397a, a “modification” to a compressor station occurs when:


(1) An additional compressor is installed at a compressor station; or


(2) One or more compressors at a compressor station is replaced by one or more compressors of greater total horsepower than the compressor(s) being replaced. When one or more compressors is replaced by one or more compressors of an equal or smaller total horsepower than the compressor(s) being replaced, installation of the replacement compressor(s) does not trigger a modification of the compressor station for purposes of § 60.5397a.



---

[N] [81 FR 35898, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 57070, Sept. 14, 2020; 85 FR 57438, Sept. 15, 2020; 89 FR 17037, Mar. 8, 2024]




