# ยง 777.24   Replacement housing payments.

(a) Residential displaced persons are eligible for replacement housing payments as follows:


(1) Residential displaced persons who lawfully and continuously owned and occupied a displacement dwelling for not less than 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations are entitled to the benefits set out in paragraph (b) of this section. Such displaced persons may alternately choose the benefits under paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) Residential displaced persons who lawfully and continuously owned and occupied, and residential displaced persons who were tenants and lawfully and continuously occupied, a displacement dwelling for not less than 90 days prior to the initiation of negotiations are entitled to the benefits set out in paragraph (e) of this section.


(3) Where the replacement housing payment provided hereunder does not provide for housing within the financial means (see ยง 777.13(j)) of the displaced person, see ยง 777.27, Last Resort Housing.


(b) *Benefits for 180 Day Owner Occupants.* Displaced persons eligible under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are entitled to benefits as set out below:


(1) An amount which is the sum of:


(i) The amount which must be added to the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling to provide a total amount equal to the lesser of:


(A) The reasonable cost of a comparable replacement dwelling as determined by paragraph (c) of this section; or


(B) The purchase price of a decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwelling actually purchased and occupied by the displaced person; plus


(ii) Interest Cost (see paragraph (d) of this section); plus


(iii) Incidental Expenses (see paragraph (h) of this section).


(2) The benefits in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, are limited to a maximum payment of $22,500.


(3) The benefits in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, are available only if a decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwelling is purchased within 12 months after the latter of:


(i) The date of acquisition or, in the case of condemnation, the date the required amount is deposited in a court for the displaced person's benefit, or


(ii) The date the person moves from the displacement dwelling.


(c) *Determining the Cost of a Comparable Replacement Dwelling.* The cost of a comparable replacement dwelling for purposes of benefits to be paid to 180 day owner occupants will be determined by applying the following:


(1) If available, at least three representative comparable replacement dwellings must be examined and the payment offer computed on the cost of the fair market value of the dwelling most closely comparable to the displacement dwelling.


(2) To the extent, feasible, comparable replacement dwellings will be selected from the neighborhood in which the displacement dwelling was located. If this is not possible, comparable replacement dwellings will be selected from nearby or similar neighborhoods where housing costs are similar.


(d) *Increased Mortgage Interest Costs.* The amount to be paid to a displaced 180 day owner occupant for increased mortgage interest costs is the amount, if any, by which the present value of the interest on the mortgage loan(s) on the replacement dwelling plus any other debt service costs exceeds the present value of the interest on the mortgage loan(s) on the displacement dwelling plus purchaser's points and loan origination fees, subject to the following:


(1) The payment must be based only on bona fide mortgages that were a valid lien on the displacement dwelling for at least 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations. All such mortgages on the displacement dwelling must be used to compute the payment.


(2) The payment must be based on the unpaid mortgage balance on the displacement dwelling or the new mortgage amount, whichever is less.


(3) The payment must be based on the remaining term of the mortgage on the displacement dwelling or the actual term of the new mortgage, whichever is shorter.


(4) The new mortgage must be a bona fide mortgage and its interest rate must not exceed the prevailing interest rate currently charged by mortgage lending institutions in the area in which the replacement dwelling is located.


(5) The discount rate used to compute the present value of the increased interest cost must be the prevailing interest rate paid on demand savings deposits by commercial banks in the area in which the replacement dwelling is located.


(6) Purchaser's points and loan origination fees, but not seller's points, are reimbursable to the extent they are not paid as incidental expenses, they do not exceed rates normal to similar real estate transactions in the area, and the Postal Service determines them to be necessary. The computation of such points and fees shall be based on the unpaid mortgage balance on the displacement dwelling, or the new mortgage amount, whichever is less.


(e) *Benefits for 90 Day Owner Occupant and Tenants.* Displaced persons eligible under paragraph (a)(2) of this section are entitled to benefits as set out below:


(1) Rental assistance benefits, as set out in paragraph (f) of this section or downpayment assistance benefits, as set out in paragraph (g) of this section.


(2) The benefits in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, are limited to $5,250.


(3) The benefits in (e)(1) above are available only if a decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwelling is purchased or rented within 12 months after the latter of:


(i) The date of acquisition or, in the case of condemnation, the date the required amount is deposited in the court for the displaced person's benefit, or


(ii) The date the person moves from the displacement dwelling.


(f) *Rental Assistance.* The rental assistance benefits, not to exceed $5,250, for 90 day owner occupants and tenants will be computed as follows:


(1) The amount which must be added to 42 times the average monthly rental paid at the displacement dwelling (or, if the displaced person is an owner occupant, the fair market rental value had the displacement dwelling been rented) for the three-month period prior to displacement to provide a total amount equal to the lesser of:


(i) 42 times the reasonable monthly rental of a comparable replacement dwelling; or 


(ii) 42 times the actual monthly rental cost of the decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling actually rented and occupied by the displaced person.


(2) If utilities are included in either the replacement dwelling or the displacement dwelling rent, appropriate utilities must be factored into both rentals. If utilities are not included in either monthly rental then the payment will be computed using the base rental rates.


(3) If, in the opinion of the Postal Service, the monthly rental at the displacement dwelling is significantly below the fair market rent of the displacement dwelling, such fair market rent must be used in computing the rental assistance payment.


(4) The payment under this section must be disbursed in a lump-sum amount unless the Postal Service determines on a case-by-case basis, for good cause, that the payment should be made in installments. Where the rental assistance payment exceeds $5,250 under the provisions of Last Resort Housing, (ยง 777.27), installment payments or payments through escrow accounts may be considered.


(g) *Downpayment assistance.* Downpayment assistance, not to exceed $5,250, is available to 90 day owner occupants and 90 day tenants. This $5,250 amount may be considered to include the full amount of the required downpayment and incidental expenses.


(h) *Incidental Expenses.* Incidental expenses covered under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (g) of this section are those reasonable costs actually incurred by the displaced person incident to the purchase of a replacement dwelling and customarily paid by the buyer (not to exceed the costs of such for a comparable replacement dwelling). They include: 


(1) Legal, closing, and related costs, including those for title search and insurance, preparing conveyance instruments, notary fees, preparing surveys and plats, and recording fees.


(2) Lender, FHA, or VA appraisal fees.


(3) FHA or VA application fee.


(4) Certification of structural soundness when required by the lender.


(5) Credit report.


(6) Owner's and mortgagee's evidence or assurance of title. 


(7) Escrow agent's fee.


(8) State revenue or documentary stamps, sales or transfer taxes.


(9) Such other costs as the Postal Service determines to be incidental to the purchase.



---

[N] [51 FR 6983, Feb. 27, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 48029, Dec. 17, 1987]




