# ยง 1605.17   Redesignation and recharacterization.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to the redesignation of contributions which, due to employing agency error, were contributed to the participant's traditional balance when they should have been contributed to the participant's Roth balance or were contributed to the participant's Roth balance when they should have been contributed to the participant's traditional balance. This section also applies to the recharacterization of contributions which, due to employing agency error, were contributed as tax-deferred contributions when they should have been contributed as tax-exempt contributions (or vice versa). It is the responsibility of the employing agency to determine whether it has made an error that entitles a participant to error correction under this section.


(b) *Method of correction.* The employing agency must promptly submit a redesignation record or a recharacterization record in accordance with this part and the procedures provided to employing agencies by the Board and/or the TSP record keeper in bulletins or other guidance.

(c) *Processing redesignations and recharacterizations.* (1) Upon receipt of a properly submitted redesignation record, the TSP record keeper shall treat the erroneously submitted contribution (and associated positive earnings) as if the contribution had been made to the correct balance on the date that it was contributed to the wrong balance. The TSP record keeper will adjust the participant's traditional balance and the participant's Roth balance accordingly. The TSP record keeper will also adjust the participant's Roth initiation date as necessary.


(2) Upon receipt of a properly submitted recharacterization record or recharacterization request, the TSP record keeper will update the tax characterization of the erroneously characterized contribution.

(3) Agency automatic (1%) contributions and agency matching contributions cannot be redesignated as Roth contributions or recharacterized as tax-exempt contributions.

(4) There is no breakage associated with redesignation or recharacterization actions.



---

[N] [77 FR 26426, May 4, 2012, as amended at 87 FR 31678, May 24, 2022]




