# ยง 322.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this regulation, the following terms are defined:


(a) The term *navigable waters of the United States* and all other terms relating to the geographic scope of jurisdiction are defined at 33 CFR part 329. Generally, they are those waters of the United States that are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide shoreward to the mean high water mark, and/or are presently used, or have been used in the past, or may be susceptible to use to transport interstate or foreign commerce.


(b) The term *structure* shall include, without limitation, any pier, boat dock, boat ramp, wharf, dolphin, weir, boom, breakwater, bulkhead, revetment, riprap, jetty, artificial island, artificial reef, permanent mooring structure, power transmission line, permanently moored floating vessel, piling, aid to navigation, or any other obstacle or obstruction.


(c) The term *work* shall include, without limitation, any dredging or disposal of dredged material, excavation, filling, or other modification of a navigable water of the United States.


(d) The term *letter of permission* means a type of individual permit issued in accordance with the abbreviated procedures of 33 CFR 325.2(e).


(e) The term *individual permit* means a DA authorization that is issued following a case-by-case evaluation of a specific structure or work in accordance with the procedures of this regulation and 33 CFR part 325, and a determination that the proposed structure or work is in the public interest pursuant to 33 CFR part 320.


(f) The term *general permit* means a DA authorization that is issued on a nationwide or regional basis for a category or categories of activities when:


(1) Those activities are substantially similar in nature and cause only minimal individual and cumulative environmental impacts; or


(2) The general permit would result in avoiding unnecessary duplication of the regulatory control exercised by another Federal, state, or local agency provided it has been determined that the environmental consequences of the action are individually and cumulatively minimal. (See 33 CFR 325.2(e) and 33 CFR part 330.)


(g) The term *artificial reef* means a structure which is constructed or placed in the navigable waters of the United States or in the waters overlying the outer continental shelf for the purpose of enhancing fishery resources and commercial and recreational fishing opportunities. The term does not include activities or structures such as wing deflectors, bank stabilization, grade stabilization structures, or low flow key ways, all of which may be useful to enhance fisheries resources.




