# § 404.1750   Notice of charges against a representative.

(a) The General Counsel or other delegated official will prepare a notice containing a statement of charges that constitutes the basis for the proceeding against the representative.


(b) We will send this notice to the representative either by certified or registered mail, to his or her last known address, or by personal delivery.


(c) We will advise the representative to file an answer, within 14 business days from the date of the notice, or from the date the notice was delivered personally, stating why he or she should not be suspended or disqualified from acting as a representative in dealings with us.


(d) The General Counsel or other delegated official may extend the 14-day period specified in paragraph (c) of this section for good cause, in accordance with § 404.911.


(e) The representative must—


(1) Answer the notice in writing under oath (or affirmation); and


(2) File the answer with the Social Security Administration, at the address specified on the notice, within the 14-day time period specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(f) If the representative does not file an answer within the 14-day time period specified in paragraph (c) of this section (or the period extended in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section), he or she does not have the right to present evidence, except as may be provided in § 404.1765(g).



---

[N] [45 FR 52090, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 24131, May 29, 1991; 62 FR 38452, July 18, 1997; 63 FR 41417, Aug. 4, 1998; 71 FR 2876, Jan. 18, 2006; 76 FR 80246, Dec. 23, 2011; 83 FR 30855, July 2, 2018]




