# § 510.455   Requirements for free-choice medicated feeds.

(a) *What is free-choice medicated feed?* For the purpose of this part, free-choice medicated feed is medicated feed that is placed in feeding or grazing areas and is not intended to be consumed fully at a single feeding or to constitute the entire diet of the animal. Free-choice feeds include, but are not limited to, medicated blocks (agglomerated feed compressed or rendered into a solid mass and cohesive enough to hold its form), mineral mixes, and liquid feed tank supplements (“lick tank” supplements) containing one or more new animal drugs. The manufacture of medicated free-choice feeds is subject to the current good manufacturing practice regulations in part 225 of this chapter for medicated feeds.


(b) *What is required for new animal drugs intended for use in free-choice feed?* Any new animal drug intended for use in free-choice feed must be approved for such use under section 512 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 360(b)) or listed in the index under section 572 of the act (21 U.S.C. 360ccc-1). Such approvals under section 512 of the act must be:


(1) An original new animal drug application (NADA),


(2) A supplemental NADA, or


(3) An abbreviated NADA.


(c) *What are the approval requirements under section 512 of the act for new animal drugs intended for use in free-choice feed?* An approval under section 512 of the act for a Type A medicated article intended for use in free-choice feed must contain the following information:


(1) Data, or reference to data in a master file (MF), showing that the target animal consumes the new animal drug in the Type C free-choice feed in an amount that is safe and effective (consumption/effectiveness data); and


(2) Data, or reference to data in an MF, showing the relevant ranges of conditions under which the drug will be chemically and physically stable in the Type C free-choice feed under field conditions.


(d) *How are consumption/effectiveness and/or stability data to be submitted?* The data must be submitted as follows:


(1) Directly in the NADA, by a sponsor; and/or


(2) To an MF that a sponsor may then reference in its NADA with written consent of the MF holder.


(e) *What will be stated in the published approval for a new animal drug intended for use in free-choice feed?* The approval of a new animal drug intended for use in free-choice feed, as published in this subchapter, will include:


(1) The formula and/or specifications of the free-choice medicated feed, where the owner of this information requests such publication, or


(2) A statement that the approval has been granted for a proprietary formula and/or specifications.


(f) *When is a medicated feed mill license required for the manufacture of a free-choice medicated feed?* An approved medicated feed mill license is required for the manufacture of the following types of feeds:


(1) All free-choice medicated feeds that contain a Category II drug, and


(2) Free-choice medicated feeds that contain a Category I drug and use a proprietary formula and/or specifications.



---

[N] [69 FR 30197, May 27, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 69121, Dec. 6, 2007]




