# ยง 1318.02   Definitions.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the term *cannabis* means any plant of the genus Cannabis.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the term *medicinal cannabis* means a drug product made from the cannabis plant, or derivatives thereof, that can be legally marketed under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the term *cannabis preparation* means cannabis that was delivered to the Administration and subsequently converted by a registered manufacturer into a mixture (solid or liquid) containing cannabis, cannabis resin, or extracts of cannabis.


(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the term *cannabis resin* means the separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from the cannabis plant.


(e) As used in this part, the terms *cannabis, medicinal cannabis,* and *cannabis preparation* do not include any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that falls outside the definition of marihuana in section 102(16) of the Controlled Substances Act (the Act) (21 U.S.C. 802(16)).


(f) The term *Single Convention* means the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961 (18 U.S.T. 1407).


(g) The term *bona fide supply agreement* means a letter of intent, purchase order or contract between an applicant and a researcher or manufacturer registered under the Act.


(h) The term *registered researcher or manufacturer* means a person registered under the Act to perform research or manufacture of marihuana in Schedule I.




