# § 301.7602-2   Third party contacts.

(a) *In general.* Subject to the exceptions in paragraph (f) of this section, no officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may contact any person other than the taxpayer with respect to the determination or collection of such taxpayer's tax liability without giving the taxpayer reasonable notice in advance that such contacts may be made. A record of persons so contacted must be made and given to the taxpayer upon the taxpayer's request. 


(b) *Third-party contact defined.* Contacts subject to section 7602(c) and this regulation shall be called “third-party contacts.” A third-party contact is a communication which— 


(1) Is initiated by an IRS employee; 


(2) Is made to a person other than the taxpayer; 


(3) Is made with respect to the determination or collection of the tax liability of such taxpayer; 


(4) Discloses the identity of the taxpayer being investigated; and 


(5) Discloses the association of the IRS employee with the IRS. 


(c) *Elements of third-party contact explained*—(1) *Initiation by an IRS employee*—(i) *Explanation*—(A) *Initiation.* An IRS employee initiates a communication whenever it is the employee who first tries to communicate with a person other than the taxpayer. Returning unsolicited telephone calls or speaking with persons other than the taxpayer as part of an attempt to speak to the taxpayer are not initiations of third-party contacts. 


(B) *IRS employee.* For purposes of this section, an IRS employee includes all officers and employees of the IRS, the Chief Counsel of the IRS and the National Taxpayer Advocate, as well as a person described in section 6103(n), an officer or employee of such person, or a person who is subject to disclosure restrictions pursuant to a written agreement in connection with the solicitation of an agreement described in section 6103(n) and its implementing regulations. No inference about the employment or contractual relationship of such other persons with the IRS may be drawn from this regulation for any purpose other than the requirements of section 7602(c). 


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (c)(1): 


(2) *Person other than the taxpayer*—(i) *Explanation.* The phrases “person other than the taxpayer” and “third party” are used interchangeably in this section, and do not include— 


(A) An officer or employee of the IRS, as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, acting within the scope of his or her employment; 


(B) Any computer database or website regardless of where located and by whom maintained, including databases or web sites maintained on the Internet or in county courthouses, libraries, or any other real or virtual site; or 


(C) A current employee, officer, or fiduciary of a taxpayer when acting within the scope of his or her employment or relationship with the taxpayer. Such employee, officer, or fiduciary shall be conclusively presumed to be acting within the scope of his or her employment or relationship during business hours on business premises. 


(ii) *Examples:* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (c)(2):


(3) *With respect to the determination or collection of the tax liability of such taxpayer*—(i) *Explanation*—(A) *With respect to.* A contact is “with respect to” the determination or collection of the tax liability of such taxpayer when made for the purpose of either determining or collecting a particular tax liability and when directly connected to that purpose. While a contact made for the purpose of determining a particular taxpayer's tax liability may also affect the tax liability of one or more other taxpayers, such contact is not for that reason alone a contact “with respect to” the determination or collection of those other taxpayers' tax liabilities. Contacts to determine the tax status of a pension plan under chapter 1, subchapter D (Deferred Compensation) of the Internal Revenue Code, are not “with respect to” the determination of plan participants” tax liabilities. Contacts to determine the tax status of a bond issue under chapter 1, subchapter B, Part IV (Tax Exemption Requirements for State and Local Bonds) of the Internal Revenue Code, are not “with respect to” the determination of the bondholders' tax liabilities. Contacts to determine the tax status of an organization under chapter 1, subchapter F (Exempt Organizations) of the Internal Revenue Code, are not “with respect to” the determination of the contributors' liabilities, nor are any similar determinations “with respect to” any persons with similar relationships to the taxpayer whose tax liability is being determined or collected. 


(B) *Determination or collection.* A contact is with respect to the “determination or collection” of the tax liability of such taxpayer when made during the administrative determination or collection process. For purposes of this paragraph (c) only, the administrative determination or collection process may include any administrative action to ascertain the correctness of a return, make a return when none has been filed, or determine or collect the tax liability of any person as a transferee or fiduciary under chapter 71 of title 26. 


(C) *Tax liability.* A *tax liability* means the liability for any tax imposed by title 26 of the United States Code (including any interest, additional amount, addition to the tax, or penalty) and does not include the liability for any tax imposed by any other jurisdiction nor any liability imposed by other Federal statutes. 


(D) *Such taxpayer.* A contact is with respect to the determination or collection of the tax liability of “such taxpayer” when made while determining or collecting the tax liability of a particular, identified taxpayer. Contacts made during an investigation of a particular, identified taxpayer are third-party contacts only as to the particular, identified taxpayer under investigation and not as to any other taxpayer whose tax liabilities might be affected by such contacts. 


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the operation of this paragraph (c)(3):


(4) *Discloses the identity of the taxpayer being investigated*—(i) *Explanation.* An IRS employee discloses the taxpayer's identity whenever the employee knows or should know that the person being contacted can readily ascertain the taxpayer's identity from the information given by the employee. 


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (c)(4): 


(5) *Discloses the association of the IRS employee with the IRS.* An IRS employee discloses his association with the IRS whenever the employee knows or should know that the person being contacted can readily ascertain the association from the information given by the employee. 


(d) *Pre-contact notice*—(1) *In general.* An officer or employee of the IRS may not make third-party contacts without providing reasonable notice in advance to the taxpayer that contacts may be made. The pre-contact notice may be given either orally or in writing. If written notice is given, it may be given in any manner that the IRS employee responsible for giving the notice reasonably believes will be received by the taxpayer in advance of the third-party contact. Written notice is deemed reasonable if it is— 


(i) Mailed to the taxpayer's last known address; 


(ii) Given in person; 


(iii) Left at the taxpayer's dwelling or usual place of business; or 


(iv) Actually received by the taxpayer. 


(2) *Pre-contact notice not required.* Pre-contact notice under this section need not be provided to a taxpayer for third-party contacts of which advance notice has otherwise been provided to the taxpayer pursuant to another statute, regulation or administrative procedure. For example, Collection Due Process notices sent to taxpayers pursuant to section 6330 and its regulations constitute reasonable advance notice that contacts with third parties may be made in order to effectuate a levy. 


(e) *Post-contact reports*—(1) *Requested reports.* A taxpayer may request a record of persons contacted in any manner that the Commissioner reasonably permits. The Commissioner may set reasonable limits on how frequently taxpayer requests need be honored. The requested report may be mailed either to the taxpayer's last known address or such other address as the taxpayer specifies in the request. 


(2) *Contents of record*—(i) *In general.* The record of persons contacted should contain information, if known to the IRS employee making the contact, which reasonably identifies the person contacted. Providing the name of the person contacted fully satisfies the requirements of this section, but this section does not require IRS employees to solicit identifying information from a person solely for the purpose of the post-contact report. The record need not contain any other information, such as the nature of the inquiry or the content of the third party's response. The record need not report multiple contacts made with the same person during a reporting period. 


(ii) *Special rule for employees.* For contacts with the employees, officers, or fiduciaries of any entity who are acting within the scope of their employment or relationship, it is sufficient to record the entity as the person contacted. A fiduciary, officer or employee shall be conclusively presumed to be acting within the scope of his employment or relationship during business hours on business premises. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2)(ii), the term *entity* means any business (whether operated as a sole proprietorship, disregarded entity under § 301.7701-2 of the regulations, or otherwise), trust, estate, partnership, association, company, corporation, or similar organization. 


(3) *Post-contact record not required.* A post-contact record under this section need not be made, or provided to a taxpayer, for third-party contacts of which the taxpayer has already been given a similar record pursuant to another statute, regulation, or administrative procedure. 


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (e): 


(f) *Exceptions*—(1) *Authorized by taxpayer*—(i) *Explanation.* Section 7602(c) does not apply to contacts authorized by the taxpayer. A contact is “authorized” within the meaning of this section if— 


(A) The contact is with the taxpayer's authorized representative, that is, a person who is authorized to speak or act on behalf of the taxpayer, such as a person holding a power of attorney, a corporate officer, a personal representative, an executor or executrix, or an attorney representing the taxpayer; or 


(B) The taxpayer or the taxpayer's authorized representative requests or approves the contact. 


(ii) *No prevention or delay of contact.* This section does not entitle any person to prevent or delay an IRS employee from contacting any individual or entity. 


(2) *Jeopardy*—(i) *Explanation.* Section 7602(c) does not apply when the IRS employee making a contact has good cause to believe that providing the taxpayer with either a general pre-contact notice or a record of the specific person contacted may jeopardize the collection of any tax. For purposes of this section only, good cause includes a reasonable belief that providing the notice or record will lead to— 


(A) Attempts by any person to conceal, remove, destroy, or alter records or assets that may be relevant to any tax examination or collection activity; 


(B) Attempts by any person to prevent other persons, through intimidation, bribery, or collusion, from communicating any information that may be relevant to any tax examination or collection activity; or 


(C) Attempts by any person to flee, or otherwise avoid testifying or producing records that may be relevant to any tax examination or collection activity. 


(ii) *Record of contact.* If the circumstances described in this paragraph (f)(2) exist, the IRS employee must still make a record of the person contacted, but the taxpayer need not be provided the record until it is no longer reasonable to believe that providing the record would cause the jeopardy described. 


(3) *Reprisal*—(i) *In general.* Section 7602(c) does not apply when the IRS employee making a contact has good cause to believe that providing the taxpayer with either a general pre-contact notice or a specific record of the person being contacted may cause any person to harm any other person in any way, whether the harm is physical, economic, emotional or otherwise. A statement by the person contacted that harm may occur against any person is sufficient to constitute good cause for the IRS employee to believe that reprisal may occur. The IRS employee is not required to further question the contacted person about reprisal or otherwise make further inquiries regarding the statement. 


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (f)(3):


(4) *Pending criminal investigations*—(i) *IRS criminal investigations.* Section 7602(c) does not apply to contacts made during an investigation, or inquiry to determine whether to open an investigation, when the investigation or inquiry is— 


(A) Made against a particular, identified taxpayer for the primary purpose of evaluating the potential for criminal prosecution of that taxpayer; and 


(B) Made by an IRS employee whose primary duties include either identifying or investigating criminal violations of the law. 


(ii) *Other criminal investigations.* Section 7602(c) does not apply to contacts which, if reported to the taxpayer, could interfere with a known pending criminal investigation being conducted by law enforcement personnel of any local, state, Federal, foreign or other governmental entity. 


(5) *Governmental entities.* Section 7602(c) does not apply to any contact with any office of any local, state, Federal or foreign governmental entity except for contacts concerning the taxpayer's business with the government office contacted, such as the taxpayer's contracts with or employment by the office. The term *office* includes any agent or contractor of the office acting in such capacity. 


(6) *Confidential informants.* Section 7602(c) does not apply when the employee making the contact has good cause to believe that providing either the pre-contact notice or the record of the person contacted would identify a confidential informant whose identity would be protected under section 6103(h)(4). 


(7) *Nonadministrative contacts*—(i) *Explanation.* Section 7602(c) does not apply to contacts made in the course of a pending court proceeding. 


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (f)(7): 


(g) *Effective Date.* This section is applicable on December 18, 2002.



---

[N] [T.D. 9028, 67 FR 77421, Dec. 18, 2002]




