# § 21.4215   Decision of Director of VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction.

(a) *Decision.* The Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction will render a written decision on the issue or issues of discontinuance or denial that were the subject of the Committee on Educational Allowances proceedings. 


(b) *Basis of decision.* (1) The decision of the Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction will be based upon all admissible evidence of record, including—


(i) The recommendations of the Committee on Educational Allowances;


(ii) The hearing transcript and the documents admitted in evidence; and


(iii) The ruling on legal issues referred to appropriate authority.


(2) The decision will clearly describe the evidence and state the facts on which the decision is based and, in the event that the decision differs from the recommendations of the Committee on Educational Allowances, will give the reasons and facts relied upon by the Director in deciding not to follow the Committee majority's recommendations.


(c) *Correction of deficiencies.* If the Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction believes that the record provided for review is incomplete or for any reason should be reopened, before rendering a decision he or she will order VA staff to gather any additional necessary evidence and will notify the educational institution that it may comment upon the new evidence added. The Director will then notify the educational institution as to whether the matter will be resubmitted to the Committee on Educational Allowances for further proceedings, on the basis of the new circumstances. If the matter is referred back to the Committee, the Director will defer a decision until he or she has received the Committee's new recommendations based upon all of the evidence of record.


(d) *Effective date.* If the decision of the Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction is adverse to the educational institution, the decision shall indicate specifically the effective date of each adverse action covered by the decision.


(e) *Notification of decision.* (1) The Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction shall send a copy of the decision to the educational institution by certified mail, return receipt requested. A copy of the decision also will be provided by regular mail to the institution's legal representative of record, if any. If the decision is adverse to the educational institution, the Director will enclose a notice of the educational institution's right to have the Director, Education Service review the decision.


(2) The Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction will also send a copy of the decision to:


(i) The State approving agency; and


(ii) VA Counsel.


(3) The Director of the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction shall post a copy of the decision at the VA Regional Processing Office of jurisdiction. A copy of the decision shall be published in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [63 FR 35836, July 1, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 16973, Apr. 5, 2007; 74 FR 14669, Mar. 31, 2009]




