# § 100.501   Special Local Regulations; Marine Events Within the Fifth Coast Guard District.

(a) *Applicability.* Paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section apply to the marine events listed in paragraph (i) of this section. These regulations are effective annually, for the duration of each event listed in paragraph (i) of this section. Annual notice of the exact times, and dates if there is a range of possible dates, of the effective period of the regulation with respect to each event, the geographical area, and details concerning the nature of the event and the number of participants and type(s) of vessels involved will be published in Local Notices to Mariners and via Broadcast Notice to Mariners over VHF-FM marine band radio.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


*Buffer zone* means a neutral area that surrounds the perimeter of the regulated area or a race area within a regulated area. The buffer zone provides separation between a race area and spectator area, or between the regulated area and other vessels that are operating in the vicinity of the regulated area for marine event. The purpose of a buffer zone is to minimize potential collision conflicts between participants, participants and non-participants, or between participants and non-participants with nearby transiting vessels.


*Captain of the Port Representative* or *COTP Representative* means a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the Coast Guard designated by name by the Captain of the Port to verify an event's compliance with the conditions of its approved permit.


*Event Patrol Commander* or *Event PATCOM* means a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the Coast Guard who has been designated by the respective Coast Guard Sector—Captain of the Port to enforce these regulations.


*Non-participant* means a person or a vessel not registered with the event sponsor either as a participant or an official patrol vessel.


*Official patrol vessel* or *official patrol* means any vessel assigned or approved by the respective Captain of the Port with a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer on board and displaying a Coast Guard ensign, or any state or local law enforcement vessel approved by the Captain of the Port in accordance with current local agreements.


*Participant* means any person or vessel registered with the event sponsor as participating in the event or otherwise designated by the event sponsor as having a function tied to the event.


*Race area* means an area bound by coordinates provided in latitude and longitude within the regulated area, inside of which the actual racing events are held.


*Regulated area* means an area where special local regulations apply to a specific described waterway to include creeks, sounds, bays, rivers, and oceans. Regulated areas include all navigable waters of a specific body of water described with intent to define boundaries where the Coast Guard enforces special local regulations. Boundaries may be described from shoreline to shoreline, reference bridges or other fixed structures, by points and lines defined by latitude and longitude. All coordinates reference Datum: NAD 1983.


*Spectator area* means an area bound by coordinates provided in latitude and longitude within the regulated area that outlines the boundary of an area reserved for non-participant vessels watching the event.


(c) *Patrol of the Marine Event.* The respective COTP may assign one or more official patrol vessels, as described in § 100.40, to each regulated event listed in the table. For each event assigned a patrol vessel, an Event PATCOM will be designated to oversee the patrol. The patrol vessel and the Event PATCOM may be contacted on VHF-FM Channel 16. The Event PATCOM may terminate the event, or the operation of any vessel participating in the marine event, at any time if deemed necessary for the protection of life or property.


(d) *Special local regulations*—(1) *Controls on vessel movement.* The Event PATCOM or official patrol vessel may forbid and control the movement of all persons and vessels in the regulated area(s). When hailed or signaled by an official patrol vessel, the person or vessel being hailed must immediately comply with all directions given. Failure to do so may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.


(2) *Directions, instructions, and minimum speed necessary.* (i) The operator of a vessel in the regulated area must stop the vessel immediately when directed to do so by an official patrol vessel and then proceed only as directed.


(ii) A person or vessel must comply with all instructions of the Event PATCOM or official patrol vessel.


(iii) A vessel operator may request permission to enter and transit through a regulated area by contacting the Event PATCOM or official patrol vessel on VHF-FM channel 16. When authorized to transit through the regulated area, the vessel must proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course that minimizes wake near the event area.


(3) *Race area.* Only participants and official patrol vessels are allowed to enter the race area.


(4) *Spectator area.* Non-participants are only allowed inside the regulated area if they remain within a designated spectator area or have authorization from the Event PATCOM or official patrol vessel to transit through the area. A non-participant vessel must be stationary or operate at a safe speed while within the designated spectator area. On scene official patrol vessels or the Event PATCOM will direct non-participant vessels to the spectator area. A non-participant must contact the Event PATCOM or official patrol vessel to request permission to pass through the regulated area. If permission is granted, the non-participant must pass directly through the regulated area at minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course that minimizes wake and without loitering.


(5) *Regulated area.* Non-participants are only allowed inside the regulated area to pass through or enter and remain within a designated spectator area. A non-participant must contact the Event PATCOM or an official patrol vessel to request permission to either enter the Spectator Area or pass through the regulated area. If permission is granted, the non-participant may enter the spectator area or pass directly through the regulated area as instructed by the Event PATCOM or official patrol vessel at minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course that minimizes wake and without loitering.


(6) *Postponement or cancellation.* The respective COTP, or Event PATCOM may postpone or cancel a marine event at any time if, in the COTP's sole discretion, the COTP determines that cancellation is necessary for the protection of life or property.


(e) *Contact information.* Questions about marine events should be addressed to the local Coast Guard Captain of the Port for the area in which the marine event is occurring. Contact information is listed below. For a description of the geographical area of each Coast Guard Sector—Captain of the Port Zone, please see subpart 3.25 of this chapter.


(1) Coast Guard Sector Delaware Bay—Captain of the Port Zone, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: (215) 271-4940.


(2) Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region—Captain of the Port Zone, Baltimore, Maryland: (410) 576-2525.


(3) Coast Guard Sector Virginia—Captain of the Port Zone, Portsmouth, Virginia: (757) 483-8567.


(4) Coast Guard Sector North Carolina—Captain of the Port Zone, Wilmington, North Carolina: (910) 343-3882.


(f) *Application for marine events.* The application requirements of § 100.15 apply to all marine events listed in paragraph (i) of this section. For information on applying for a marine event permit, contact the Captain of the Port for the area in which the marine event will occur, at the phone numbers listed above.


(g) *Enforcement periods.* Each year prior to an event the Coast Guard will announce details concerning the event, including the exact date(s) and time(s) of the enforcement period of the special local regulation and the geographical area, in the Local Notices to Mariners and by Broadcast Notice to Mariners over VHF-FM marine band radio. In the case of inclement weather or other just cause found by the respective COTP, the event may be conducted within 30 days before or after the date(s) listed in paragraph (i) of this section. If the event is held on an alternate date from that listed in paragraph (i) the Coast Guard will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ announcing the exact dates and time of the enforcement period with respect to the special local regulation in addition to announcement in the Local Notices to Mariners and Broadcast Notice to Mariners.


(h) *Regulations for specific marine events in paragraph (i) of this section*—(1) *USNA Blue Angels Air Show, Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region—COTP Zone.* Except for an emergency situation, a vessel may not anchor or maintain station within the spectator area without the permission of the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or designated Event PATCOM. The COTP Maryland-National Capital Region has designated this spectator area for commercial small passenger vessel use. This area is closed except for commercial small passenger vessels holding a valid Certificate of Inspection regulated under 46 CFR chapter I, subchapters K and T (46 CFR 114.110, and 175.110). Vessels that meet the requirements of this section may request access to the Severn River spectator area by contacting the City of Annapolis Harbormaster at (410) 263-7973 or email *harbormaster@annapolis.gov* to obtain a vessel spectator area application. Vessel spectator area applications shall be submitted no later than 10 calendar days prior to the event date. Applicants will be notified by the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or COTP representative regarding status of applications and further instructions. All vessels shall contact the Event PATCOM on VHF-FM channels 16 or 22A prior to transiting to the spectator area to confirm entry approval. Vessels approved for spectator area access shall follow the instructions issued by the official patrol vessels or the Event PATCOM when entering the regulated area. The regulations for this event will restrict access to some of the anchorage grounds at Annapolis Harbor, MD, specifically Middle Ground Anchorage, South Anchorage, and Naval Anchorage for Small Craft, listed at 33 CFR 110.159(a)(1) through (4).


(2) *Air Show Baltimore, Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region—COTP Zone.* Except for an emergency situation, a vessel may not anchor or hold station within the spectator area without the permission of the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or Event PATCOM. The COTP Maryland-National Capital Region has designated this spectator area for commercial small passenger vessel use. This area is closed except for commercial small passenger vessels holding a valid Certificate of Inspection regulated under 46 CFR chapter I, subchapters K and T (46 CFR 114.110 and 175.110). Vessels that meet the requirements of this section may request access to the Patapsco River spectator area by contacting the Sail Baltimore at (410) 522-7300 or emailing *info@sailbaltimore.org* to obtain a vessel spectator area application. Vessel spectator area applications shall be submitted no later than 10 calendar days prior to the event date. Applicants will be notified by the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or COTP representative regarding status of applications and further instructions. All vessels shall contact the Event PATCOM on VHF-FM channels 16 or 22A prior to transiting to the spectator area to confirm entry approval. Vessels approved for spectator area access shall follow the instructions issued by on scene official patrol vessels or the Event PATCOM when entering the regulated area. The regulations for this event will restrict access to some of the anchorage grounds listed at 33 CFR 110.158, Baltimore Harbor, MD. Specifically anchorage grounds:


(i) Anchorage No. 1, general anchorage;


(ii) Anchorage No. 2, general anchorage;


(iii) Anchorage No. 3A, general anchorage; and


(iv) Anchorage No. 3B, general anchorage and


(v) Anchorage No. 3C, general anchorage.


(i) *Special Local Regulations—Recurring Events Within the Fifth Coast Guard District by COTP Zone.* All coordinates listed reference Datum NAD 1983. As noted in paragraph (g) of this section, the enforcement period for each of the listed special local regulations is subject to change.


(1) *Coast Guard Sector Delaware Bay—COTP Zone.*

(2) *Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region—COTP Zone.*

(3) *Coast Guard Sector Virginia—COTP Zone.*

(4) *Coast Guard Sector North Carolina—COTP Zone.*


---

[N] [USCG-2020-0332, 86 FR 61696, Nov. 8, 2021, as amended by USCG-2022-0073, 87 FR 26272, May 4, 2022; USCG-2023-0510, 88 FR 67949, Oct. 3, 2023]




