# § 723.4   Appearance before the board; notice; counsel; witnesses; access to records.

(a) *General.* In each case in which the Board determines a hearing is warranted, the applicant will be entitled to appear before the Board either in person or by counsel of his/her selection or in person with counsel. Additional provisions apply to cases processed under the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (10 U.S.C. 1034).


(b) *Notice.* (1) In each case in which a hearing is authorized, the Board's staff will transmit to the applicant a written notice stating the time and place of hearing. The notice will be mailed to the applicant, at least 30 days prior to the date of hearing, except that an earlier date may be set where the applicant waives his/her right to such notice in writing.


(2) Upon receipt of the notice of hearing, the applicant will notify the Board in writing at least 15 days prior to the date set for hearing as to whether he/she will be present at the hearing and will indicate to the Board the name of counsel, if represented by counsel, and the names of such witnesses as he/she intends to call. Cases in which the applicant notifies the Board that he/she does not desire to be present at the hearing will be considered in accordance with § 723.5(b)(2).


(c) *Counsel.* As used in this part, the term “counsel” will be construed to include members in good standing of the federal bar or the bar of any state, accredited representatives of veterans' organizations recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under 38 U.S.C. 3402, or such other persons who, in the opinion of the Board, are considered to be competent to present equitably and comprehensively the request of the applicant for correction, unless barred by law. Representation by counsel will be at no cost to the government.


(d) *Witnesses.* The applicant will be permitted to present witnesses in his/her behalf at hearings before the Board. It will be the responsibility of the applicant to notify his/her witnesses and to arrange for their appearance at the time and place set for hearing. Appearance of witnesses will be at no cost to the government.


(e) *Access to records.* (1) It is the responsibility of the applicant to procure such evidence not contained in the official records of the Department of the Navy as he/she desires to present in support of his/her case.


(2) Classified or privileged information may be released to applicants only by proper authorities in accordance with applicable regulations.


(3) Nothing in this part authorizes the furnishing of copies of official records by the Board. Requests for copies of these records should be submitted in accordance with applicable regulations governing the release of information. The BCNR can provide a requestor with information regarding procedures for requesting copies of these records from the appropriate retention agency.




