# ยง 986.177   Reports of pecans received by handlers.

(a) *Summary report.* Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month, a summary report of inshell domestic pecans received, and all shipments, inventory, and committed inventory for pecans following the month of activity. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. The report shall be submitted to the Council on APC Form 1 and contain the following information:


(1) The name and address of the handler;


(2) The month covered by the report;


(3) The total weight and type of inshell pecans received during the reporting period;


(4) The total weight and type of inshell pecans received year to date;


(5) Assessments due on pecans received during the reporting period to be paid by the due date of the report;


(6) The weight of all shipments of pecans, inshell and shelled, and inter-handler transfers shipped and received during the reporting period;


(7) The weight of all shipments of pecans, inshell and shelled, and inter-handler transfers shipped and received in the previous month and year to date;


(8) Total inventory held by handler;


(9) All the inventory committed (pecans not shipped, but sold or otherwise obligated) whether for domestic sale or export; and,


(10) The weight of all shelled or inshell pecans under contract for purchase from other handlers.


(b) *Pecans purchased outside the United States and inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling and returned to the United States as shelled meats.* Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month following the month of activity, a summary report of shelled and inshell pecans imported during the preceding month. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. The report shall be submitted to the Council on APC Form 2 and contain the following information:


(1) The name and address of the handler;


(2) The month covered by the report;


(3) The date the pecans were imported;


(4) The country of origin; 


(5) The total weight of shelled and inshell pecans received, and the weight by variety for improved pecans received;


(6) The weight of inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling;


(7) The date shelled pecans returned to the United States after shelling in Mexico;


(8) The weight of shelled pecans returned to the United States after shelling in Mexico; and


(9) The total weight of inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling, and shelled pecans returned from Mexico, year to date.



---

[N] [83 FR 7361, Feb. 21, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 19654, Apr. 8, 2020]




