# § 15.812   Pilots.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, the following vessels, not sailing on register, when underway on the navigable waters of the United States, must be under the direction and control of an individual qualified to serve as Pilot under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate:


(1) Coastwise seagoing vessels propelled by machinery and subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 33, and coastwise seagoing tank barges subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 37.


(2) Vessels that are not authorized by their COI to proceed beyond the Boundary Line established in part 7 of this chapter, are in excess of 1,600 GRT propelled by machinery, and are subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 33.


(3) Vessels operating on the Great Lakes, that are propelled by machinery and subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 33, or are tank barges subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 37.


(b) The following individuals may serve as a Pilot on a vessel subject to paragraph (a) of this section, when underway on the navigable waters of the United States that are designated areas:


(1) An individual holding a valid MMC officer endorsement as First-Class Pilot, operating within the restrictions of their credential, may serve as Pilot on any vessel to which this section applies.


(2) An individual holding a valid MMC officer endorsement as Master or Mate, employed aboard a vessel within the restrictions of their credential, may serve as Pilot on a vessel of not more than 1,600 GRT propelled by machinery, described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, provided they—


(i) Are at least 21 years old;


(ii) Are able to show current knowledge of the waters to be navigated, as required in § 11.713 of this subchapter; and


(iii) Provide evidence of completing a minimum of four roundtrips over the route to be traversed while in the wheelhouse as watchstander or observer. At least one of the roundtrips must be made during the hours of darkness if the route is to be traversed during darkness.


(3) An individual holding a valid MMC officer endorsement as Master, Mate, or operator employed aboard a vessel within the restrictions of their credential, may serve as Pilot on a tank barge or tank barges totaling not more than 10,000 GRT/GT, described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, provided they -


(i) Are at least 21 years old;


(ii) Are able to show current knowledge of the waters to be navigated, as required in § 11.713 of this subchapter;


(iii) Have a current physical examination in accordance with the provisions of § 11.709 of this subchapter;


(iv) Have at least 6 months of service in the deck department on towing vessels engaged in towing operations; and


(v) Provide evidence of completing a minimum of 12 roundtrips over the route to be traversed, as an observer or under instruction in the wheelhouse. At least three of the roundtrips must be made during the hours of darkness if the route is to be traversed during darkness.


(c) An individual holding a valid MMC officer endorsement as Master, Mate, or operator, employed aboard a vessel within the restrictions of their credential, may serve as a Pilot for a vessel subject to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, when underway on the navigable waters of the United States that are not designated areas of pilotage waters, provided they—


(1) Are at least 21 years old;


(2) Are able to show current knowledge of the waters to be navigated, as required in § 11.713 of this subchapter; and


(3) Have a current physical examination in accordance with the provisions of § 11.709 of this subchapter.


(d) In any instance in which the qualifications of a person satisfying the requirements for pilotage through the provisions of this subpart are questioned by the Coast Guard, the individual must, within a reasonable time, provide the Coast Guard with documentation proving compliance with the applicable portions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section


(e) Federal pilotage requirements contained in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are summarized in the following two quick reference tables


(1) Table 1 to § 15.812(e)(1) provides a guide to the pilotage requirements for inspected, self-propelled vessels.


(2) Table 2 to § 15.812(e)(2) provides a guide to the pilotage requirements for tank barges.


(f) In Prince William Sound, Alaska, coastwise seagoing vessels over 1,600 GRT and propelled by machinery and subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 37 must—


(1) When operating from 60°49′ north latitude to the Port of Valdez, be under the direction and control of an individual holding a or MMC endorsed as Pilot who—


(i) Is operating under the authority of an MMC;


(ii) Holds a License issued by the State of Alaska; and


(iii) Is not a crewmember of the vessel; and


(2) Navigate with either two credentialed deck officers on the bridge or an individual holding a or MMC endorsed as Pilot, when operating south of 60°49′ north latitude and in the approaches through Hinchinbrook Entrance and in the area bounded—


(i) On the West by a line 1 mile west of the western boundary of the Traffic Separation Scheme


(ii) On the East by 146°00′ West longitude;


(iii) On the North by 60°49′ North latitude; and


(iv) On the South by that area of Hinchinbrook Entrance within the territorial sea bounded by 60°07′ North latitude and 146°31.5′ West longitude.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 78005, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0348, 87 FR 3223, Jan. 21, 2022; USCG-2020-0069, 87 FR 66591, Nov. 4, 2022; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102338, Dec. 17, 2024]




