# ยง 17.240   Sharing health-care resources.

Subject to such terms and conditions as the Under Secretary for Health shall prescribe, agreements may be entered into for sharing medical resources between Department health-care facilities and any health-care provider, or other entity or individual with geographical limitations determined by the Under Secretary for Health, provided:


(a) The agreement will achieve one of the following purposes: (1) It will secure the use of a health-care resource which otherwise might not be feasibly available by providing for the mutual use or exchange of use of health-care resources when such an agreement will obviate the need for a similar resource to be installed or provided at a facility operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or 


(2) It will secure effective use of Department of Veterans Affairs health-care resources by providing for the mutual use, or exchange of use, of health-care resources in a facility operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, which have been justified on the basis of veterans' care, but which are not utilized to their maximum effective capacity; and 


(b) The agreement is determined to be in the best interest of the prevailing standards of the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Program; and 


(c) The agreement provides for reciprocal reimbursement based on a charge which covers the full cost of the use of health-care resources, incidental hospital care or other needed services, supplies used, and normal depreciation and amortization costs of equipment. 


(d) Reimbursement for medical care rendered to an individual who is entitled to hospital or medical services (Medicare) under subchapter XVIII of chapter 7 of title 42 U.S.C., and who has no entitlement to medical care from the Department of Veterans Affairs, will be made to such facility, or if the contract or agreement so provides, to the community health care facility which is party to the agreement, in accordance with:


(1) Rates prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, after consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and


(2) Procedures jointly prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to assure reasonable quality of care and service and efficient and economical utilization of resources.



---

[N] [32 FR 6841, May 4, 1967, as amended at 35 FR 18198, Nov. 28, 1970; 39 FR 1846, Jan. 15, 1974; 45 FR 6940, Jan. 31, 1980; 47 FR 58250, Dec. 30, 1982; 54 FR 34983, Aug. 23, 1989. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014] 




