# ยง 35.30   General provisions.

(a) *Applicability.* This subpart applies to any sales of electric power subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under Part II of the Federal Power Act from public utilities to the Administrator of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) at the average system cost (ASC) of that utility's resources (electric power generation by the utility) pursuant to section 5(c) of the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 830-839h. The ASC is determined by BPA in accordance with 18 CFR part 301.


(b) *Effectiveness of rates.* (1) During the period between the date of BPA's determination of ASC and the date of the final order issued by the Commission, the utility may charge the rate based on the ASC determined by BPA, subject to ยง 35.31(c) of this part.


(2) Except as otherwise provided under this section, the ASC ordered by the Commission will be deemed in effect from the beginning of the relevant exchange period, as defined in ยง 301.1(b)(95) of this chapter. For any initial exchange period after the Commission approves a new ASC methodology, the ASC will be effective retroactively under this paragraph only if the utility files its new ASC within the time allowed under BPA procedures. Any utility that files a revised ASC with BPA in accordance with this paragraph must promptly file with the Commission a notice of timely filing of the new ASC.


(c) *Filing requirements.* Within 15 business days of the date of issuance of the BPA report on a utility's ASC, the utility must file with the Commission the ASC determined by BPA, the BPA written report, the utility's ASC schedules, material necessary to comply with 18 CFR 35.13(c), and any other material requested by the Commission or its staff.



---

[N] [Order 337, 48 FR 46976, Oct. 17, 1983, as amended by Order 400, 49 FR 39300, Oct. 5, 1984]




