# ยง 1322.9   Hearing procedures.

In meeting the requirements of section 614(d)(3) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 3057e(d)(3)), if the Assistant Secretary for Aging disapproves an application from an eligible organization, the eligible organization may file a written request for a hearing with the Departmental Appeals Board (DAB) in accordance with 45 CFR part 16.


(a) The request shall be postmarked or delivered in person within 30 days of the date of the disapproval notice. If it requests a hearing, the eligible organization shall submit to the DAB, as part of the request, a full written response to each objection specified in the notice of disapproval, including the pertinent facts and reasons in support of its response, and all documentation to support its position as well as any documentation requested by the DAB.


(b) Upon receipt of appeal for reconsideration of a rejected application or activities proposed by an applicant, the DAB will notify the applicant by certified mail that the appeal has been received.


(c) The DAB may refer an appeal to its Alternative Dispute Resolution Division for mediation prior to making a decision. After consideration of the record, the DAB will issue a written decision, based on the record, that sets forth the reasons for the decision and the evidence on which it was based. A disapproval decision issued by the DAB represents the final determination of the Assistant Secretary for Aging and remains in effect unless reversed or stayed on judicial appeal, except that the Assistant Secretary for Aging may modify or set aside the decision before the record of the proceedings under this subpart is filed in court.


(d) Either the eligible organization or the staff of the Administration on Aging may request for good cause an extension of any of the time limits specified in this section.






