# § 4022.93   Who will get benefits PBGC may owe me at the time of my death?

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, we will pay any benefits we owe you at the time of your death to the person(s) surviving you in the following order—


(1) *Designee with the PBGC.* The person(s) you designated with us to get any benefits we may owe you at the time of your death. See § 4022.94 for information on designating with us. 


(2) *Spouse.* Your spouse. We will consider a person to whom you are married to be your spouse even if you and that person are separated, unless a decree of divorce or annulment has been entered in a court. 


(3) *Children.* Your children and descendants of your deceased children. 


(i) *Adopted children.* In determining who is a child or descendant, an adopted child is treated the same way as a natural child. 


(ii) *Child dies before parent.* If one of your children dies before you, any of your grandchildren through that deceased child will equally divide that deceased child's share; if one of your grandchildren through that deceased child dies before that deceased child, any of your great-grandchildren through that deceased grandchild will equally divide that deceased grandchild's share; and so on. 


(4) *Parents.* Your parents. A parent includes an adoptive parent. 


(5) *Estate.* Your estate, provided your estate is open. 


(6) *Next of kin.* Your next of kin in accordance with applicable state law.


(b) *Pre-trusteeship deaths.* If you die before the date we take over your plan and, by that date, the plan administrator has not paid all benefits owed to you at the time of your death, we will pay any benefits we owe you at the time of your death to the person(s) designated by or under the plan to get those benefits (provided the designation clearly applies to those benefits). If there is no such designation, we will pay those benefits to your spouse, children, parents, estate, or next of kin under the rules in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section. 


(c) *Deaths shortly after trusteeship.* If you die within 180 days after the date we take over your plan and you have not designated anyone with the PBGC under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, we will pay any benefits we owe you at the time of your death to the person(s) designated by or under the plan to get those benefits (provided the designation clearly applies to those benefits) before paying those benefits to your spouse, children, parents, estate, or next of kin under the rules in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section. 


(d) *Lump-sum payments to surviving spouses.* For a deceased participant whose benefit under § 4022.7(b) has a lump-sum value not exceeding the dollar amount specified in section 203(e)(1) of ERISA, payment will be made to the surviving spouse (if any) if such spouse would otherwise be entitled to receive a qualified preretirement survivor annuity under section 205(a)(2) of ERISA, and the surviving spouse will receive highest priority under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [67 FR 16957, Apr. 8, 2002, as amended at 88 FR 44052, July 11, 2023]






