# §  62.5340   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Massachusetts Plan for the Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Plants (Section 111(d) Plan).


(b) *Official submission of plan.* Revised State Plan for the control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing municipal waste combustors—as submitted December 18, 2018, by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which EPA incorporates by reference.


(c) *Identification of sources.* The plan applies to existing sources in the following categories of sources:


(1) Municipal waste combustors.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies at the EPA Region 1 Regional Office, Air and Radiation Division, 5 Post Office Square-Suite 100, Boston, MA, 617-918-1078 and from the source listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. You may also inspect the materials at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fr.inspection@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. 1 Winter Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02108, 617-292-5500, *mass.gov/orgs/massachusetts-department-of-environmental-protection;* Code of Massachusetts Regulations (CMR):


(i) 310 CMR 7.08(2): Title 310—Department of Environmental Protection, chapter 7.00—Air Pollution Control, section 7.08—U Incinerators, paragraph (2) “Municipal Waste Combustors,” in effect March 9, 2018 (as corrected and revised through August 21, 1998), excluding the following: subparagraph (2)(a) “Site Assignment”; the definition of “materials separation plan” in subparagraph (2)(c); and subparagraph (2)(f)8. “Material Separation Plan”.


(ii) [Reserved]





---

[N] [86 FR 59858, Oct. 29, 2021]






