# § 165.40   General provisions.

(a) *What is the purpose of the regulations in this subpart?* The regulations in this subpart establish design and construction requirements for refillable containers used for the distribution or sale of some pesticide products.


(b) *Do I have to comply with the regulations in this subpart?* (1) You must comply with all of the regulations in this subpart if you are a registrant who distributes or sells a pesticide product in refillable containers. If your pesticide product is subject to the regulations in this subpart as set out in § 165.43, your pesticide product must be distributed or sold in a refillable container that meets the standards of these regulations. This includes your pesticide products that are repackaged according to subpart D of this part.


(2) You must comply with the regulations in § 165.45(f) for stationary pesticide containers if you are a refiller of a pesticide product and you are not the registrant of the pesticide product. If the pesticide product is subject to the regulations in this subpart as set out in § 165.43, the stationary pesticide containers used to distribute or sell the product must meet the standards of § 165.45(f).


(3) If you are a refiller of a pesticide product and you are not a registrant of the pesticide product, § 165.45(a)(2) provides an exemption from some of the requirements in § 165.45(a)(1) .


(c) *When do I have to comply?* Any pesticide product packaged in a refillable container and released for shipment by you after August 16, 2011 must be packaged in a refillable container that complies with the regulations of this subpart.



---

[N] [71 FR 47422, Aug. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 64226, Oct. 29, 2008]




