# ยง 3282.452   Participation in monitoring.

(a) *Joint monitoring teams.* (1) The Secretary or the Secretary's agent shall develop and coordinate joint monitoring teams which shall be made up of qualified personnel provided by SAAs and by the Secretary or the Secretary's agent. The Secretary or the Secretary's agent shall determine whether personnel are qualified based on education or experience. 


(2) The joint monitoring teams will operate generally on a regional basis. To the extent possible, the teams shall be so scheduled that personnel provided by an SAA will be monitoring operations in manufactured home plants from which manufactured homes are shipped into their State. 


(3) Personnel from an SAA shall not participate on joint monitoring teams operating within their State. 


(4) States are encouraged but not required to participate on joint monitoring teams. 


(b) *State monitoring.* A State may carry out monitoring of IPIA functions at plant facilities within the State if the State is not acting as an IPIA. Where a State wishes to carry out monitoring activities it shall do so in coordination with the Secretary and the Secretary's agent. To the extent that the State is performing adequate monitoring, the frequency of the joint team monitoring may be reduced to one visit per year consistent with the requirements of ยง 3282.453. 


(c) *Review of staff capability.* The monitoring party shall review the capability of the PIA's staff to perform the functions it is required to perform. 


(d) *Review of interpretations.* The monitoring party shall review all records of interpretations of the standards made by the PIA to determine whether they are consistent and to determine whether there are any conflicts which should be referred to the Secretary for determination. 


(e) *DAPIA.* Monitoring parties shall review on a random basis at least 10 percent of the design and quality assurance manual approvals made by each DAPIA in each year. 


(f) *IPIA.* The monitoring parties shall assure that the IPIAs are carrying out all of the functions for which they have been accepted. In particular, they shall assure that the manufacturing process is as stated in the certification reports, that the IPIAs are carrying out the required number of inspections, that inspections are effective, and that the IPIAs are maintaining complete label control as required by ยง 3282.362. A monitoring team shall monitor the IPIA's office procedures, files, and label control and the monitoring team shall send copies of its report to the Secretary or the Secretary's agent, which shall send copies to all monitoring teams which monitor the operations of the subject IPIA. 


(g) *Remedial actions.* The monitoring parties shall review the remedial action records of the manufacturers and of the primary inspection agencies closely to determine whether the primary inspection agencies have been carrying out their responsibilities with respect to remedial actions. 




