# ยง 210.38   Record.

(a) *Definition of the record.* The record shall consist of all pleadings, the notice of investigation, motions and responses, all briefs and written statements, and other documents and things properly filed with the Secretary, in addition to all orders, notices, and initial determinations of the administrative law judge, orders and notices of the Commission, hearing and conference transcripts, evidence admitted into the record (including physical exhibits), and any other items certified into the record by the administrative law judge or the Commission.


(b) *Reporting and transcription.* Hearings shall be reported and transcribed by the official reporter of the Commission under the supervision of the administrative law judge, and the transcript shall be a part of the record. 


(c) *Corrections.* Changes in the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance. A motion to correct a transcript shall be addressed to the administrative law judge, who may order that the transcript be changed to reflect such corrections as are warranted, after consideration of any objections that may be made. Such corrections shall be made by the official reporter by furnishing substitute typed pages, under the usual certificate of the reporter, for insertion in the transcript. The original uncorrected pages shall be retained in the files of the Commission.




(d) *Certification of record.* Any record created, including all physical exhibits entered into evidence or such photographic reproductions thereof as the administrative law judge approves, shall be certified to the Commission by the administrative law judge at the time the administrative law judge files an initial determination, or a recommended determination, or at such earlier time as the Commission may order.



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38324, July 7, 2008; 90 FR 245, Jan. 3, 2025]




