# ยง 229.1109   (Item 1109) Trustees and other transaction parties.

(a) *Trustees.* Provide the following information for each trustee:


(1) State the trustee's name and describe the trustee's form of organization.


(2) Describe to what extent the trustee has had prior experience serving as a trustee for asset-backed securities transactions involving similar pool assets, if applicable.


(3) Describe the trustee's duties and responsibilities regarding the asset-backed securities under the governing documents and under applicable law. In addition, describe any actions required by the trustee, including whether notices are required to investors, rating agencies or other third parties, upon an event of default, potential event of default (and how defined) or other breach of a transaction covenant and any required percentage of a class or classes of asset-backed securities that is needed to require the trustee to take action.


(4) Describe any limitations on the trustee's liability under the transaction agreements regarding the asset-backed securities transaction.


(5) Describe any indemnification provisions that entitle the trustee to be indemnified from the cash flow that otherwise would be used to pay the asset-backed securities.


(6) Describe any contractual provisions or understandings regarding the trustee's removal, replacement or resignation, as well as how the expenses associated with changing from one trustee to another trustee will be paid.


(b) *Asset representations reviewer.* Provide the following for each asset representations reviewer:


(1) State the asset representations reviewer's name and describe its form of organization.


(2) Describe to what extent the asset representations reviewer has had prior experience serving as an asset representations reviewer for asset-backed securities transactions involving similar pool assets.


(3) Describe the asset representations reviewer's duties and responsibilities regarding the asset-backed securities under the governing documents and under applicable law. In addition, describe any actions required of the asset representations reviewer, including whether notices are required to investors, rating agencies or other third parties, and any required percentage of a class or classes of asset-backed securities that is needed to require the asset representations reviewer to take action.


(4) Disclose the manner and amount in which the asset representations reviewer is compensated.


(5) Describe any limitations on the asset representations reviewer's liability under the transaction agreements regarding the asset-backed securities transaction.


(6) Describe any indemnification provisions that entitle the asset representations reviewer to be indemnified from the cash flow that otherwise would be used to pay holders of the asset-backed securities.


(7) Describe any contractual provisions or understandings regarding the asset representations reviewer's removal, replacement or resignation, as well as how the expenses associated with changing from one asset representations reviewer to another asset representations reviewer will be paid.



---

[N] [70 FR 1597, Jan. 7, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 57314, Sept. 24, 2014]




