# § 261a.10   Appeal of adverse determination of request for access or amendment.

(a) *Appeal.* You may appeal a denial of a request made pursuant to § 261a.5 or § 261a.8 of this part within 10 business days after we notify you that we denied your request. Your appeal must—


(1) Be made in writing with the words “PRIVACY ACT APPEAL” written prominently on the first page and addressed to the Secretary of the Board, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551;


(2) Specify the background of the request; and


(3) Provide reasons why you believe the initial denial is in error.


(b) *Determination.* We will make a determination on your appeal within 30 business days from the date we receive it, unless we extend the time for good cause.


(1) If we grant your appeal regarding a request for amendment, we will take the necessary steps to amend your record and, when appropriate and possible, notify prior recipients of the record of our action.


(2) If we deny your appeal, we will inform you of such determination, tell you our reasons for the denial, and tell you about your rights to file a statement of disagreement and to have a court review our decision.


(c) *Statement of disagreement.* (1) If we deny your appeal regarding a request for amendment, you may file a concise statement of disagreement with the denial. We will maintain your statement with the record you sought to amend and any disclosure of the record will include a copy of your statement of disagreement.


(2) When practicable and appropriate, we will provide a copy of the statement of disagreement to any prior recipients of the record.




