# § 60.480a   Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities in the synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry.


(2) The group of all equipment (defined in § 60.481a) within a process unit is an affected facility.


(b) Any affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after November 7, 2006, and on or before April 25, 2023, shall be subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(c) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement which is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.


(d)(1) If an owner or operator applies for one or more of the exemptions in this paragraph, then the owner or operator shall maintain records as required in § 60.486a(i).


(2) Any affected facility that has the design capacity to produce less than 1,000 Mg/yr (1,102 ton/yr) of a chemical listed in § 60.489 is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.


(3) If an affected facility produces heavy liquid chemicals only from heavy liquid feed or raw materials, then it is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.


(4) Any affected facility that produces beverage alcohol is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.


(5) Any affected facility that has no equipment in volatile organic compounds (VOC) service is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.


(e) *Alternative means of compliance*—(1) *Option to comply with part 65.* (i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a through 60.487a for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, the requirements of §§ 60.485a(d), (e), and (f), and 60.486a(i) and (j) still apply. Other provisions applying to an owner or operator who chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.


(ii) *Part 60, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) do not apply to owners or operators of equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.


(2) *Part 63, subpart H.* (i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a through 60.487a for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, the requirements of § 60.485a(d), (e), and (f), and § 60.486a(i) and (j) still apply.


(ii) *Part 60, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) do not apply to owners or operators of equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 63 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, must comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart A.


(f) Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and flare related requirements of any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 60.619a, § 60.669a, or § 60.709a, in lieu of all flare related requirements in any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63.



---

[N] [72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 31375, June 2, 2008; 89 FR 43070, May 16, 2024]






