# § 165.557   Security Zone; Potomac River, Montgomery County, MD.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Captain of the Port (COTP)* means the Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to act on his or her behalf.


*Designated representative* means a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to enforce the security zone described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


*Public vessel* has the same meaning as that term is defined under 46 U.S.C. 2101.


(b) *Location.* Coordinates used in this section are based on datum NAD 83.


(1) *Security zone.* The following area is a security zone: All navigable waters of the Potomac River, from shoreline to shoreline, within an area bounded on the west by a line connecting the following points: Latitude 39°03′44.7″ N, longitude 077°21′47″ W, thence north to latitude 39°04′03″ N, longitude 077°21′47″ W, and bounded on the east by a line connecting the following points: Latitude 39°04′04″ N, longitude 077°19′58″ W, thence south to latitude 39°03′41.35″ N, longitude 077°20′05.30″ W.


(2) *Transit lane.* All waters within the Potomac River, contiguous with the Maryland shoreline and extending out into the Potomac River approximately 250 yards, within an area bounded by a line connecting the following points: Beginning at the Maryland shoreline at latitude 39°04′03″ N, longitude 077°21′47″ W, thence south to latitude 39°03′55.3″ N, longitude 077°21′47″ W, thence east to latitude 39°03′56.8″ N, longitude 077°20′00.3″ W, thence north to the Maryland shoreline at latitude 39°04′04″ N, longitude 077°19′58″ W, thence back along the shoreline to the originating point.


(c) *Regulations.* The general security zone regulations found in § 165.33 apply to the security zone created by this section.


(1) Except for public vessels, entry into or remaining in the security zone described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or designated representative when the aforementioned security zone is being enforced. At the start of each enforcement, all persons and vessels within the security zone must depart the zone immediately or obtain authorization from the COTP or designated representative to remain within the zone. All vessels authorized to remain in the zone shall proceed as directed by the COTP or designated representative.


(2) Persons and vessel operators who intend to enter or transit the security zone while the zone is being enforced must obtain authorization from the COTP or designated representative. Access to the zone will be determined by the COTP or designated representative on a case-by-case basis when the zone is enforced. Persons and vessel operators requesting permission to enter or transit the security zone may contact the COTP or designated representative at telephone number 410-576-2675, on marine band radio VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz), or by visually or verbally hailing the on-scene law enforcement vessel enforcing the zone. On-scene Coast Guard personnel enforcing this section can be contacted on marine band radio, VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz). The operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel, or other Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency vessel, by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means. When authorized by the COTP or designated representative to enter the security zone all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or designated representative and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while within the security zone.


(3) The transit lane, described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, is the only part of the security zone through which persons and vessels may travel. Before entering the transit lane, persons or vessels must have authorization as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. All persons and vessels shall operate at bare steerage or no-wake speed while transiting through the lane, and must not loiter, stop, or anchor, unless authorized or otherwise instructed by the COTP or a designated representative.


(4) The U.S. Coast Guard may secure the entire security zone, including transit lane, if deemed necessary to address security threats or concerns.


(5) The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted by Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in the patrol and enforcement of the security zone described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(d) *Enforcement.* The Coast Guard activates the security zone when requested by the U.S. Secret Service for the protection of individuals who qualify for protection under 18 U.S.C 3056(a) or Presidential memorandum. The COTP will provide the public with notice of enforcement of security zone by Broadcast Notice to Mariners (BNM), information release at the website: *www.news.uscg.mil/Baltimore/* and via a recorded message at telephone number (410) 576-2675 as well as on-scene notice by designated representative or other appropriate means in accordance with § 165.7.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0448, 85 FR 29620, May 18, 2020]






