# § 86.201   General applicability.

(a) Vehicles are subject to cold temperature testing requirements as described in subpart S of this part and 40 CFR part 600.


(b) *Migration to 40 CFR parts 1065 and 1066.* This subpart transitions to rely on the test procedure specifications in 40 CFR parts 1065 and 1066 as follows:


(1) Through model year 2021, manufacturers may use the test procedures specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or, using good engineering judgement, elements of both. For any EPA testing before model year 2022, EPA will use the manufacturer's selected procedures for applying acceptable speed-tolerance criteria. For any other parameters, EPA may conduct testing using either of the specified procedures. As allowed under this part, manufacturers may use carryover data from previous model years to demonstrate compliance with emission standards, without regard to the provisions of this section.


(2) For vehicles certified before model year 2022 to any of the Tier 3 emission standards specified in subpart S of this part, manufacturers must determine overall driver accuracy based on driven cycle energy as described in 40 CFR 1066.425(j).


(c) *Interim procedures.* Through model year 2021, manufacturers may certify vehicles based on data collected according to previously published cold temperature and intermediate temperature testing procedures.


(d) *Long-term procedures.* Starting in model year 2022, perform testing to measure CO and NMHC emissions and determine fuel economy as described in 40 CFR part 1066; see especially 40 CFR 1066.710. We may approve the use of previously published cold temperature and intermediate temperature testing procedures for later model years as an alternative procedure under 40 CFR 1066.10(c). Perform intermediate temperature testing as follows:


(1) For testing during ambient temperatures of less than 50 °F (10 °C), perform testing as described in 40 CFR part 1066, subpart H.


(2) For testing at temperatures of 50 °F (10 °C) or higher, perform FTP testing as described in 40 CFR part 1066.


(e) Section 86.213 describes special provisions related to test fuel specifications.



---

[N] [80 FR 9103, Feb. 19, 2015]








