# ยง 7.90   Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area.

(a) *Bicycle use.* (1) The Superintendent may designate all or a portion of the following trails as open to bicycle use:


(i) The multi-use trail in the Abbotts Bridge unit (approximately 2 miles).


(ii) The Fitness Loop in the Cochran Shoals unit (approximately 2.7 miles).


(iii) The multi-use trails in the Sope Creek Area of the Cochran Shoals unit (approximately 9.1 miles).


(iv) The Lower Roswell Trail in the Gold Branch unit (approximately 0.5 miles).


(v) The multi-use trail in the Jones Bridge unit (approximately 1.4 miles).


(vi) The multi-use trail in the McGinnis Ferry unit (approximately 1.4 miles).


(vii) The Rottenwood Creek Trail in the Palisades unit (approximately 1.6 miles).


(viii) The multi-use trail in the Settles Bridge unit (approximately 1.6 miles).


(ix) The multi-use trail in the Suwanee Creek unit (approximately 0.2 miles).


(x) The Roswell Riverwalk Trail in the Vickery Creek unit (approximately 0.1 miles).


(2) A map showing trails open to bicycle use will be available at Recreation Area visitor centers and posted on the Recreation Area website. The Superintendent will provide notice of all trails designated for bicycle use in accordance with ยง 1.7 of this chapter.


(3) The Superintendent may limit, restrict, or impose conditions on bicycle use, or close any trail to bicycle use, or terminate such conditions, closures, limits, or restrictions in accordance with ยง 4.30 of this chapter. A violation of any such condition, closure, limit, or restriction is prohibited.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [78 FR 14450, Mar. 6, 2013, as amended at 89 FR 104430, Dec. 23, 2024]




