# § 1632.1   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in section 2 of the Flammable Fabrics Act as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191), the following definitions apply for the purpose of the standard.


(a) *Mattress* means a ticking filled with a resilient material used alone or in combination with other products intended or promoted for sleeping upon.


(1) This definition includes, but is not limited to, adult mattresses, youth mattresses, crib mattresses including portable crib mattresses, bunk bed mattresses, futons, water beds and air mattresses which contain upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core, and any detachable mattresses used in any item of upholstered furniture such as convertible sofa bed mattresses, corner group mattresses, day bed mattresses, roll-a-way bed mattresses, high risers, and trundle bed mattresses. See § 1632.8 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.


(2) This definition excludes sleeping bags, pillows, mattress foundations, liquid and gaseous filled tickings such as water beds and air mattresses which do not contain upholstery material between the ticking and the mattress core, upholstered furniture which does not contain a detachable mattress such as chaise lounges, drop-arm love seats, press-back lounges, push-back sofas, sleep lounges, sofa beds (including jackknife sofa beds), sofa lounges (including glide-outs), studio couches and studio divans (including twin studio divans and studio beds), and juvenile product pads such as car bed pads, carriage pads, basket pads, infant carrier and lounge pads, dressing table pads, stroller pads, crib bumpers, and playpen pads. See § 1632.8 Glossary of terms, for definitions of these items.


(b) *Mattress Pad* means a thin, flat mat or cushion, and/or ticking filled with resilient material for use on top of a mattress. This definition includes, but is not limited to, absorbent mattress pads, flat decubitus pads, and convoluted foam pads which are totally enclosed in ticking. This definition excludes convoluted foam pads which are not totally encased in ticking.


(c) *Ticking* means the outermost layer of fabric or related material that encloses the core and upholstery materials of a mattress or mattress pad. A mattress ticking may consist of several layers of fabric or related materials quilted together.


(d) *Core* means the main support system that may be present in a mattress, such as springs, foam, hair block, water bladder, air bladder, or resilient filling.


(e) *Upholstery material* means all material, either loose or attached, between the mattress or mattress pad ticking and the core of a mattress, if a core is present.


(f) *Tape edge* (edge) means the seam or border edge of a mattress or mattress pad.


(g) *Quilted* means stitched with thread or by fusion through the ticking and one or more layers of upholstery material.


(h) *Tufted* means buttoned or laced through the ticking and upholstery material and/or core, or having the ticking and upholstery material and/or core drawn together at intervals by any other method which produces a series of depressions on the surface.


(i) *Manufacturer* means an individual plant or factory at which mattresses and/or mattress pads are produced or assembled.


(j) *Mattress prototype* means mattresses of a particular design, sharing all materials and methods of assembly, but excluding differences in mattress size. If it has been shown as a result of prototype qualification testing that an upholstery material or core will not reduce the ignition resistance of the mattress prototype, substitution of another material for such material shall not be deemed a difference in materials for prototype definition. (See § 1632.31(c)(4) for records required to demonstrate that a change of materials has not reduced ignition resistance of a mattress prototype.) If it is determined or suspected that a material has influenced the ignition resistance of the mattress prototype, a change in that material, excluding an increase in thickness, shall be deemed a difference in materials for purposes of prototype definition unless it is previously shown to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission that such change will not reduce the ignition resistance of the mattress prototype. Ticking materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.6. Tape edge materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.7.


(k) *Mattress pad prototype* means mattress pads of a particular design, sharing all materials and methods of assembly, but excluding differences in mattress pad size. A change in existing material, except an increase in thickness, shall be deemed a difference in materials for purposes of prototype definition unless it is previously shown to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission that such change will not reduce the ignition resistance of the mattress pad prototype. Ticking materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.6. Tape edge materials may be substituted in accordance with § 1632.7.


(l) *Surface* means one side of a mattress or mattress pad which is intended for sleeping upon and which can be tested.




