# § 82.1   Definitions.

As used in connection with this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth in this section. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Bird.* Any member of the class *aves* other than poultry. 


*Commercial birds.* Birds that are moved or kept for resale, breeding, public display, or any other purpose, except pet birds.


*Dressed carcasses.* Carcasses of birds or poultry that have been eviscerated, with heads and feet removed, or parts or products of such carcasses.


*Exposed.* At risk of developing Newcastle disease because of association with birds or poultry infected with Newcastle disease, excrement from birds or poultry infected with Newcastle disease, or other material touched by birds or poultry infected with Newcastle disease, or because there is reason to believe that association has occurred with Newcastle disease or vectors of Newcastle disease, as determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian. 


*Federal representative.* An individual employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*Federal veterinarian.* A veterinarian employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*Hatching eggs.* Eggs in which birds or poultry are allowed to develop. 


*Infected.* Affected by the virus or bacterium that causes the specified disease. 


*Interstate.* From one State into or through any other State. 


*Known to be exposed.* Determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian to be at risk of developing Newcastle disease because of association with birds or poultry infected with Newcastle disease, excrement from birds or poultry infected with Newcastle disease, or other material touched by birds or poultry infected with Newcastle disease, or because there is reason to believe that association has occurred with Newcastle disease or vectors of Newcastle disease, as determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian. 


*Known to be infected.* Determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian to be affected by the virus or bacterium that causes the specified disease. 


*Litter.* Material that is used to collect and absorb bodily wastes from birds or poultry. 


*Moved.* Shipped, transported or otherwise moved, or delivered or received for movement, by any person. 


*Newcastle disease.* Newcastle disease is an acute, rapidly spreading, and usually fatal viral infection of poultry caused by an avian paramyxovirus serotype 1 that meets one of the following criteria for virulence: The virus has an intracerebral pathogenicity index (ICPI) in day-old chicks (*Gallus gallus*) of 0.7 or greater; or multiple basic amino acids have been demonstrated in the virus (either directly or by deduction) at the C-terminus of the F2 protein and phenylalanine at residue 117, which is the N-terminus of the F1 protein. The term “multiple basic amino acids” refers to at least three arginine or lysine residues between residues 113 and 116. In this definition, amino acid residues are numbered from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of the F0 gene; 113-116 corresponds to residues −4 to −1 from the cleavage site. Failure to demonstrate the characteristic pattern of amino acid residues as described above may require characterization of the isolated virus by an ICPI test. A failure to detect a cleavage site that is consistent with virulent strains does not confirm the absence of a virulent virus.


*Official seal.* A serially numbered metal or plastic strip, consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, that forms a loop when the ends are engaged and that cannot be reused if opened, or a serially numbered, self-locking button that can be used for this purpose. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity. 


*Pet birds.* Birds, except ratites, that are kept for the personal pleasure of their individual owners and are not intended for resale.


*Poultry.* Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys. 


*Ratites.* Cassowaries, emus, kiwis, ostriches, and rheas.


*Recognized slaughtering establishment.* Any slaughtering facility operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 *et seq.*), or State meat or poultry inspection acts. 


*Render.* Reduce, convert, or melt down by heating to a temperature of at least 230 °F so that oil is removed. 


*State.* Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States. 


*State animal health official.* The State official responsible for livestock- and poultry-disease control and eradication programs. 


*State representative.* An individual employed in animal health work and authorized by a State or political subdivision of a State to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*State veterinarian.* A veterinarian employed and authorized by a State or political subdivision of a State to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*Veterinarian in charge.* A Federal veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and authorized by the Administrator to supervise and manage the animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in a specified area of the United States. 



---

[N] [61 FR 56883, Nov. 5, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 30297, May 27, 2008; 74 FR 18287, Apr. 22, 2009; 78 FR 19083, Mar. 29, 2013]




