# § 21.35   Flight tests.

(a) Each applicant for an aircraft type certificate (other than under §§ 21.24 through 21.29) must make the tests listed in paragraph (b) of this section. Before making the tests the applicant must show—


(1) Compliance with the applicable structural requirements of this subchapter; 


(2) Completion of necessary ground inspections and tests; 


(3) That the aircraft conforms with the type design; and 


(4) That the FAA received a flight test report from the applicant (signed, in the case of aircraft to be certificated under Part 25 [New] of this chapter, by the applicant's test pilot) containing the results of his tests. 


(b) Upon showing compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant must make all flight tests that the FAA finds necessary—


(1) To determine compliance with the applicable requirements of this subchapter; and 


(2) For aircraft to be certificated under this subchapter, except gliders and low-speed, certification level 1 or 2 airplanes, as defined in part 23 of this chapter, to determine whether there is reasonable assurance that the aircraft, its components, and its equipment are reliable and function properly.


(c) Each applicant must, if practicable, make the tests prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section upon the aircraft that was used to show compliance with—


(1) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and 


(2) For rotorcraft, the rotor drive endurance tests prescribed in § 27.923 or § 29.923 of this chapter, as applicable. 


(d) Each applicant must show for each flight test (except in a glider or a manned free balloon) that adequate provision is made for the flight test crew for emergency egress and the use of parachutes. 


(e) Except in gliders and manned free balloons, an applicant must discontinue flight tests under this section until he shows that corrective action has been taken, whenever—


(1) The applicant's test pilot is unable or unwilling to make any of the required flight tests; or 


(2) Items of noncompliance with requirements are found that may make additional test data meaningless or that would make further testing unduly hazardous. 


(f) The flight tests prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must include—


(1) For aircraft incorporating turbine engines of a type not previously used in a type certificated aircraft, at least 300 hours of operation with a full complement of engines that conform to a type certificate; and 


(2) For all other aircraft, at least 150 hours of operation. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-40, 39 FR 35459, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-95, 76 FR 64233, Oct. 18, 2011; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016] 




