# ยง 401.230   Certificates of Registration.

(a) A Certificate of Registration must describe the areas and routes of the Great Lakes within which the Pilot is authorized to perform pilotage services, and such description must be consistent with the terms of the pilotage authorization in their Master, Mate, or Pilot endorsement issued under the authority of Title 46 of the United States Code.


(b) A Certificate of Registration does not authorize the holder to board any vessel, or to serve as a Pilot of any vessel, without the permission of the owner or Master. A Certificate of Registration must be in the possession of a Pilot at all times when they are in the service of a vessel, and must be displayed upon demand of the owner or Master, any United States Coast Guard officer or inspector, or a representative of the Director.


(c) A Certificate of Registration evidencing registration of the holder is the property of the U.S. Coast Guard, and it may not be pledged, deposited, or surrendered to any person except as authorized by this part. A Certificate of Registration may not be copied or digitally reproduced, or be used to make a facsimile or Photostat. A Certificate which has expired without renewal, or renewal of which has been denied under the provisions of this section, must be surrendered to the Director upon demand.


(d) An application for a replacement of a lost, damaged, or defaced Certificate of Registration must be submitted to the Director, on a Form CG-4509, together with two full-face passport style photographs, signed on the photo, vertically, as close to the head as possible. A replacement fee of five dollars ($5) by check or money order, drawn to the order of the U.S. Coast Guard, must accompany any such application. A Certificate issued as a replacement for a lost, damaged, or defaced Certificate will be marked so as to indicate that it is a replacement. Upon receipt of a Certificate issued as a replacement, the damaged or defaced Certificate must be surrendered to the Director.


(e) A Certificate of Registration may be voluntarily surrendered to the Director by a U.S. Registered Pilot at any time such Pilot no longer desires to perform pilotage services; however, in the event such U.S. Registered Pilot has been served with a notice of hearing pursuant to ยง 401.250, a voluntary surrender of the Certificate of Registration will be at the option of the Director.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0025, 89 FR 76349, Sept. 17, 2024]






