# § 20.2039-3   Lump sum distributions under “qualified plans;” decedents dying after December 31, 1976, and before January 1, 1979.

(a) *Limitation of section 2039(c) exclusion.* This section applies in the case of a decedent dying after December 31, 1976, and before January 1, 1979. If a lump sum distribution is paid with respect to the decedent under a plan described in § 20.2039-2(b) (1) or (2) (a “qualified plan”), no amount payable with respect to the decedent under the plan is excludable from the decedent's gross estate under § 20.2039-2.


(b) *“Lump sum distribution” defined.* For purposes of this section the term “lump sum distribution” means a lump sum distribution defined in section 402(e)(4)(A) that satisfies the requirements of section 402(e)(4)(C), relating to the aggregation of certain trusts and plans. The distribution of an annuity contract is not a lump sum distribution for purposes of this section, and § 20.2039-2 will apply with respect to the distribution of an annuity contract without regard to whether the contract is included in a distribution that is otherwise a lump sum distribution under this paragraph (b). A distribution is a lump sum distribution for purposes of this section without regard to the election described in section 402(e)(4)(B).


(c) *Amounts payable as a lump sum distribution.* If on the date the estate tax return is filed, an amount under a qualified plan is payable with respect to the decedent as a lump sum distribution (whether at the election of a beneficiary or otherwise), for purposes of this section the amount is deemed paid as a lump sum distribution no later than on such date. Accordingly, no portion of the amount payable under the plan is excludable from the value of the decedent's gross estate under § 20.2039-2. If, however, the amount payable as a lump sum distribution is not, in fact, thereafter paid as a lump sum distribution, there shall be allowed a credit or refund of any tax paid which is attributable to treating such amount as a lump sum distribution under this paragraph. Any claim for credit or refund filed under this paragraph must be filed within the time prescribed by section 6511, and must provide satisfactory evidence that the amount originally payable as a lump sum distribution is no longer payable in such form.


(d) *Filing date.* For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, “the date the estate tax return is filed” means the earlier of—


(1) The date the estate tax return is actually filed, or


(2) The date nine months after the decedent's death, plus any extension of time for filing the estate tax return granted under section 6081.



---

[N] [T.D. 7761, 46 FR 7304, Jan. 23, 1981]




