# ยง 1703.102   Definitions; words denoting number, gender and tense.

*Agency record* is a record in the possession and control of the Board that is associated with Board business. Agency records do not include records such as:


(1) Publicly available books, periodicals, or other publications that are owned or copyrighted by non-federal sources;


(2) Records solely in the possession and control of Board contractors;


(3) Personal records in the possession of Board personnel that have not been circulated, were not required by the Board to be created or retained, and may be retained or discarded at the author's sole discretion. In determining whether such records are agency records the Board shall consider whether, and to what extent, the records were used in agency business;


(4) Records of a personal nature that are not associated with any Board business; or


(5) Non-substantive information in the calendar or schedule books of the Chairman or Members, uncirculated except for typing or recording purposes.


*Board* means the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.


*Chairman* means the Chairman of the Board.


*Designated FOIA Officer* means the person designated by the Board to administer the Board's activities pursuant to the regulations in this part. The Designated FOIA Officer shall also be the Board officer having custody of or responsibility for agency records in the possession of the Board and shall be the Board officer responsible for authorizing or denying production of records upon requests filed pursuant to ยง 1703.105.


*General Counsel* means the chief legal officer of the Board.


*General Manager* means the chief administrative officer of the Board.


*Member* means a Member of the Board.


In determining the meaning of any provision of this part, unless the context indicates otherwise: the singular includes the plural; the plural includes the singular; the present tense includes the future tense; and words of one gender include the other gender.




