# ยง 74.2   Definitions.

(a) *The Act* means the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, Public Law 100-383, 102 Stat. 903, as codified at 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b *et seq.*, (August 10, 1988). 


(b) *The Administrator* means the Administrator in charge of the Office of Redress Administration of the Civil Rights Division. 


(c) *Assembly centers and relocation centers* means those facilities established pursuant to the acts described in ยง 74.4(i)-(ii). 


(d) *Child of an eligible individual* means a recognized natural child, an adopted child, or a step-child who lived with the eligible person in a regular parent-child relationship. 


(e) *The Commission* means the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians established by the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment Act, 50 U.S.C. app. 1981 note. 


(f) *Evacuation, relocation, and internment period* means that period beginning December 7, 1941, and ending June 30, 1946. 


(g) *The Fund* means the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund in the Treasury of the United States administered by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 104 of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988. 


(h) *The Office* means the Office of Redress Administration established in the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice to execute the responsibilities and duties assigned the Attorney General pursuant to section 105 of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988. 


(i) *Parent of an eligible individual* means the natural father and mother, or fathers and mothers through adoption.


(j) *The Report* means the published report by the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians of its findings and recommendations entitled, *Personal Justice Denied,* Part I and Part II. 


(k) *Spouse of an eligible individual* means a wife or husband of an eligible individual who was married to that eligible person for at least one year immediately before the death of the eligible individual. 




