# ยง 170.35   Affirmation of generally recognized as safe (GRAS) status.

(a) The Commissioner, on his own initiative, may affirm that a substance that directly or indirectly becomes a component of food is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use.


(b)(1) If the Commissioner proposes on his own initiative that a substance is entitled to affirmation as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use, he will place all of the data and information on which he relies on public file in the office of the Dockets Management Staff and will publish in the _Federal Register_ a notice giving the name of the substance, its proposed uses, and any limitations proposed for purposes other than safety.


(2) The _Federal Register_ notice will allow a period of 60 days during which any interested person may review the data and information and/or file comments with the Dockets Management Staff. Copies of all comments received shall be made available for examination in the Dockets Management Staff's office.


(3) The Commissioner will evaluate all comments received. If he concludes that there is convincing evidence that the substance is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use as described in ยง 170.30, he will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ listing the GRAS conditions of use of the substance in part 184 or part 186 of this chapter, as appropriate.


(4) If, after evaluation of the comments, the Commissioner concludes that there is a lack of convincing evidence that a substance is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use and that it should be considered a food additive subject to section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, he shall publish a notice thereof in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with ยง 170.38.



---

[N] [42 FR 14488, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 7492, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985; 53 FR 16547, May 10, 1988; 62 FR 40599, July 29, 1997; 65 FR 51762, Aug. 25, 2000; 81 FR 55048, Aug. 17, 2016; 88 FR 17718, Mar. 24, 2023]




