# ยง 242.24   Customary and traditional use determinations.

(a) The Federal Subsistence Board has determined that rural Alaska residents of the listed communities, areas, and individuals have customary and traditional use of the specified species on Federal public land in the specified areas. Persons granted individual customary and traditional use determinations will be notified in writing by the Board. The Fish & Wildlife Service and the local NPS Superintendent will maintain the list of individuals having customary and traditional use on National Parks and Monuments. A copy of the list is available upon request. When there is a determination for specific communities or areas of residence in a Unit, all other communities not listed for that species in that Unit have no Federal subsistence priority for that species in that Unit. If no determination has been made for a species in a Unit, all rural Alaska residents are eligible to harvest fish or wildlife under this part.


(1) *Wildlife determinations.* The rural Alaska residents of the listed communities and areas have a customary and traditional use of the specified species on Federal public lands within the listed areas:


(2) *Fish determinations.* The following communities and areas have been found to have a positive customary and traditional use determination in the listed area for the indicated species:


(3) *Shellfish determinations.* The following communities and areas have been found to have a positive customary and traditional use determination in the listed area for the indicated species: 


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [64 FR 1301, Jan. 8, 1999]


