# § 134.24   Containers or holders not designed for or capable of reuse.

(a) *Containers ordinarily discarded after use.* Disposable containers or holders subject to the provisions of this section are the usual ordinary types of containers or holders, including cans, bottles, paper or polyethylene bags, paperboard boxes, and similar containers or holders which are ordinarily discarded after the contents have been consumed.


(b) *Imported empty.* Disposable containers or holders imported for distribution or sale are subject to treatment as imported articles in accordance with the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), and shall be marked to indicate clearly the country of their own origin. However, when the containers are packed and sold in multiple units (dozens, gross, etc.), this requirement ordinarily may be met by marking the outermost container which reaches the ultimate purchaser.


(c) *Imported to be filled*—(1) *If unmarked.* When disposable containers or holders or usual containers which are goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country are imported by persons or firms who fill or package them with various products which they sell, these persons or firms are the “ultimate purchasers” of these containers or holders or usual containers which are goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country and they may be excepted from individual marking pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3)(D). The outside wrappings or packages containing the containers shall be clearly marked to indicate the country of origin.


(2) *If marked.* If the disposable containers or holders or the usual containers which are goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country are marked with the country of origin at the time of importation and the marking will be visible after they are filled, the marking shall clearly indicate that the container only and not the contents were made in the named country. For example, bottles, drums, or other containers imported empty, to be filled in the United States, shall be marked with such words as “Bottle (or container) made in (name of country).”


(d) *Imported full*—(1) *When contents are excepted from marking.* Usual disposable containers in use as such at the time of importation shall not be required to be marked to show the country of their own origin, but shall be marked to indicate the origin of their contents regardless of the fact that the contents are excepted from marking requirements; however, such marking is not required if the contents are excepted from marking requirements under paragraph (f), (g), or (h) of § 134.32 or, in the case of a good of a NAFTA or USMCA country, under paragraph (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (p) or (q) of that section.


(2) *Sealed containers or holders.* Disposable containers or holders of imported merchandise, which are sold without normally being opened by the ultimate purchaser (e.g., individually wrapped soap bars or tennis balls in a vacuum sealed can), shall be marked to indicate the country of origin of their contents.


(3) *Unsealed containers.* Unsealed disposable containers of imported merchandise normally unopened by the ultimate purchaser, may be excepted from marking if the article is so marked that the country of origin is clearly visible without unpacking the container. However, if the container is normally opened by the ultimate purchaser prior to purchase, only the article need be marked.



---

[N] [T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]




