# § 1.1502-17   Methods of accounting.

(a) *General rule.* The method of accounting to be used by each member of the group is determined in accordance with the provisions of section 446 as if such member filed a separate return.




(b) *Adjustments required if method of accounting changes*—(1) *General rule.* If a member of a group changes its method of accounting for a consolidated return year, the terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner under section 446(e), including section 481(a) where applicable, shall apply to the member. If the requirements of section 481(b) are met because applicable adjustments under section 481(a) are substantial, the increase in tax for any prior year shall be computed upon the basis of a consolidated return or a separate return, whichever was filed for such prior year.


(2) *Changes in method of accounting for intercompany transactions.* If a member changes its method of accounting for intercompany transactions for a consolidated return year, the change in method generally will be effected on a cut-off basis.


(c) *Anti-avoidance rules*—(1) *General rule.* If one member (B) directly or indirectly acquires an activity of another member (S), or undertakes S's activity, with the principal purpose to avail the group of an accounting method that would be unavailable (or would be unavailable without securing consent from the Commissioner) if S and B were treated as divisions of a single corporation, B must use the accounting method for the acquired or undertaken activity determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section or must secure consent from the Commissioner under applicable administrative procedures to use a different method.


(2) *Treatment as divisions of a single corporation.* B must use the method of accounting that would be required if B acquired the activity from S in a transaction to which section 381 applied. Thus, the principles of section 381 (c)(4) and (c)(5) apply to resolve any conflicts between the accounting methods of S and B, and the acquired or undertaken activity is treated as having the accounting method used by S. Appropriate adjustments are made to treat all acquisitions or undertakings that are part of the same plan or arrangement as a single acquisition or undertaking.


(d) *Examples.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples:


(e) *Effective dates.* Paragraph (b) of this section applies to changes in method of accounting effective for years beginning on or after July 12, 1995. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section apply with respect to acquisitions occurring or activities undertaken in years beginning on or after July 12, 1995.



---

[N] [T.D. 6894, 31 FR 11794, Sept. 8, 1966, as amended by T.D. 8597, 60 FR 36708, July 18, 1995; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106867, Dec. 30, 2024]








