# § 721.11500   Haloalkane (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as haloalkane (PMN P-19-19) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solids or liquid droplets).


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4), where N=23.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 30188, June 7, 2021]




