# ยง 110.46   Amending a Request Package.

(a) *Generally.* All requesters may amend their documentation concerning eligibility up to the time the Secretary has made an eligibility determination. Requesters are expected to submit additional medical records as they become available. Requesters also may amend their information or documentation concerning the calculation of benefits until the Secretary has made a benefits determination. Once an *eligibility* determination has been made, the Secretary will not accept additional documentation concerning eligibility, except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Once a *benefits* determination has been made, the Secretary will not accept additional documentation regarding the type or amount of benefits for that covered injury, except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Requesters who are survivors.* If an injured countermeasure recipient submitted a Request Form within the filing deadline, but subsequently dies, or the executor or administrator timely filed on behalf of the estate, the survivor(s) may amend the previously filed Request Package at any time by filing a new Request Form in order to be considered for death benefits. Such an amendment can be filed regardless of whether the Secretary made an eligibility determination or paid benefits with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient's Request Package. However, a survivor filing an amendment to a previously filed Request Package may only be eligible for benefits if the previously filed Request Package was filed within the governing filing deadline. All documentation that has already been submitted with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient will be considered part of the survivor requester's Request Package, and he or she is not required to resubmit such documentation. Survivor requesters must also file an amendment to a Request Package if there is a change in the order of priority of survivors, as described in ยง 110.11.


(c) *Requests in which the benefits are sought for the estate of a deceased injured countermeasure recipient.* If an injured countermeasure recipient submitted a Request Form within the filing deadline, but subsequently dies before all due benefits are paid by the Program, the executor or administrator of his or her estate may amend his or her Request Package at any time in order for the estate to be considered for benefits. This opportunity to amend applies also if the Request Form was timely filed by a survivor. Such an amendment can be filed regardless of whether the Secretary made an eligibility determination or paid benefits with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient's Request Package. However, the executor or administrator of the deceased injured countermeasure recipient's estate filing an amendment to a previously filed Request Package may only be eligible to receive benefits on behalf of the estate if the previously filed Request Package was filed within the governing deadline. All documentation that has already been submitted with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient will be considered part of that person's Request Package, and the executor or administrator of the estate is not required to resubmit such documentation.




