# ยง 800.216   Activities that shall be monitored.

(a) *General.* Each of the administrative and technical activities identified in ยง 800.215 and the elevator and merchandising activities identified in this section shall be monitored in accordance with the instructions.


(b) *Grain merchandising activities.* Grain merchandising activities subject to monitoring for compliance with the Act include but are not limited to (1) failing to promptly forward an export certificate; (2) describing grain by other than official grades; (3) falsely describing export grain; (4) falsely making or using official certificates, forms, or marks; (5) making false quality or quantity representations about grain; and (6) selling export grain without a certificate of registration.


(c) *Grain handling activities.* Grain handling activities subject to monitoring for compliance with the Act include, but are not limited to:


(1) Shipping export grain without inspection or weighing;


(2) Violating any Federal law with respect to the handling, weighing, or inspection of grain;


(3) Deceptively loading, handling, weighing, or sampling grain; and


(4) Exporting grain without a certificate of registration.


(d) *Recordkeeping activities.* Elevator and merchandising recordkeeping activities subject to monitoring for compliance with the Act include those that are identified in section 12(d) of the Act and ยง 800.25 of the regulations.


(e) *Other activities.* Other activities subject to monitoring for compliance with the Act include but are not limited to (1) resolving conflicts of interest by official agencies or their employees; (2) providing access to elevator facilities and records; (3) improperly influencing or interfering with official personnel; (4) falsely representing that a person is official personnel; (5) using false means in filing an application for services under the Act; and (6) preventing interested persons from observing the loading, Class X or Class Y weighing, or official sampling of grain.



---

[N] [45 FR 15810, Mar. 11, 1980; 45 FR 55119, Aug. 18, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 2273, Jan. 16, 1985; 81 FR 49863, July 29, 2016]




