# § 1.36B-4   Reconciling the premium tax credit with advance credit payments.

(a) *Reconciliation*—(1) *Coordination of premium tax credit with advance credit payments*—(i) *In general.* A taxpayer must reconcile the amount of credit allowed under section 36B with advance credit payments on the taxpayer's income tax return for a taxable year. A taxpayer whose premium tax credit for the taxable year exceeds the taxpayer's advance credit payments may receive the excess as an income tax refund. A taxpayer whose advance credit payments for the taxable year exceed the taxpayer's premium tax credit owes the excess as an additional income tax liability.






(ii) *Allocation rules and responsibility for advance credit payments*—(A) *In general.* A taxpayer must reconcile all advance credit payments for coverage of any member of the taxpayer's family.




(B) *Individuals enrolled by a taxpayer and claimed as a personal exemption deduction by another taxpayer*—(*1*) *In general.* If a taxpayer (the enrolling taxpayer) enrolls an individual in a qualified health plan and another taxpayer (the claiming taxpayer) claims a personal exemption deduction for the individual (the shifting enrollee), then for purposes of computing each taxpayer's premium tax credit and reconciling any advance credit payments, the enrollment premiums and advance credit payments for the plan in which the shifting enrollee was enrolled are allocated under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) according to the allocation percentage described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section. If advance credit payments are allocated under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section, the claiming taxpayer and enrolling taxpayer must use this same allocation percentage to calculate their § 1.36B-3(d)(1)(ii) adjusted monthly premiums for the applicable benchmark plan (benchmark plan premiums). This paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) does not apply to amounts allocated under § 1.36B-3(h) (qualified health plan covering more than one family) or if the shifting enrollee or enrollees are the only individuals enrolled in the qualified health plan. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*1*), a taxpayer who is expected at enrollment in a qualified health plan to be the taxpayer filing an income tax return for the year of coverage with respect to an individual enrolling in the plan has enrolled that individual. For taxable years to which section 151(d)(5) applies, the claiming taxpayer is the taxpayer who properly includes the shifting enrollee in his or her family for the taxable year.


(*2*) *Allocation percentage.* The enrolling taxpayer and claiming taxpayer may agree on any allocation percentage between zero and one hundred percent. If the enrolling taxpayer and claiming taxpayer do not agree on an allocation percentage, the percentage is equal to the number of shifting enrollees properly included in the enrolling taxpayer's family divided by the number of individuals enrolled by the enrolling taxpayer in the same qualified health plan as the shifting enrollee.




(*3*) *Allocating premiums.* In computing the premium tax credit, the claiming taxpayer is allocated a portion of the enrollment premiums for the plan in which the shifting enrollee was enrolled equal to the enrollment premiums times the allocation percentage. The enrolling taxpayer is allocated the remainder of the enrollment premiums not allocated to one or more claiming taxpayers.


(*4*) *Allocating advance credit payments.* In reconciling any advance credit payments, the claiming taxpayer is allocated a portion of the advance credit payments for the plan in which the shifting enrollee was enrolled equal to the enrolling taxpayer's advance credit payments for the plan times the allocation percentage. The enrolling taxpayer is allocated the remainder of the advance credit payments not allocated to one or more claiming taxpayers. This paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*4*) only applies in situations in which advance credit payments are made for coverage of a shifting enrollee.


(*5*) *Premiums for the applicable benchmark plan.* If paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section applies, the claiming taxpayer's benchmark plan premium is the sum of the benchmark plan premium for the claiming taxpayer's coverage family, excluding the shifting enrollee or enrollees, and the allocable portion. The allocable portion for purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*5*) is the product of the benchmark plan premium for the enrolling taxpayer's coverage family if the shifting enrollee was a member of the enrolling taxpayer's coverage family and the allocation percentage. If the enrolling taxpayer's coverage family is enrolled in more than one qualified health plan, the allocable portion is determined as if the enrolling taxpayer's coverage family includes only the coverage family members who enrolled in the same plan as the shifting enrollee or enrollees. The enrolling taxpayer's benchmark plan premium is the benchmark plan premium for the enrolling taxpayer's coverage family had the shifting enrollee or enrollees remained a part of the enrolling taxpayer's coverage family, minus the allocable portion.


(C) *Responsibility for advance credit payments for an individual not reported on any taxpayer's return.* If advance credit payments are made for coverage of an individual who is not included in any taxpayer's family, as defined in § 1.36B-1(d), the taxpayer who attested to the Exchange to the intention to include such individual in the taxpayer's family as part of the advance credit payment eligibility determination for coverage of the individual must reconcile the advance credit payments.










(iii) *Advance credit payment for a month in which an issuer does not provide coverage.* For purposes of reconciliation, a taxpayer does not have an advance credit payment for a month if the issuer of the qualified health plan in which the taxpayer or a family member is enrolled does not provide coverage for that month.


(2) *Credit computation.* The premium assistance credit amount is computed on the taxpayer's return using the taxpayer's household income and family size for the taxable year. Thus, the taxpayer's contribution amount (household income for the taxable year times the applicable percentage) is determined using the taxpayer's household income and family size at the end of the taxable year. The applicable benchmark plan for each coverage month is determined under § 1.36B-3(f).




(3) *Limitation on additional tax*—(i) *In general.* The additional tax imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section on a taxpayer whose household income is less than 400 percent of the Federal poverty line is limited to the amounts provided in the table in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section (or successor tables). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, the limitation amounts may be adjusted in published guidance, see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter, to reflect changes in the consumer price index.


(ii) *Additional tax limitation table.*

(iii) *Limitation on additional tax for taxpayers who claim a section 162(l) deduction for a qualified health plan*—(A) *In general.* A taxpayer who receives advance credit payments and deducts premiums for a qualified health plan under section 162(l) must use paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B), and paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) or (D), of this section to determine the limitation on additional tax in this paragraph (a)(3) (limitation amount). Taxpayers must make this determination before calculating their section 162(l) deduction and premium tax credit. For additional rules for taxpayers who may claim a deduction under section 162(l) for a qualified health plan for which advance credit payments are made, see § 1.162(l)-1.


(B) *Determining the limitation amount.* A taxpayer described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section must use the limitation amount for which the taxpayer qualifies under paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) or (D) of this section. The limitation amount determined under this paragraph (a)(3)(iii) replaces the limitation amount that would otherwise be determined under the additional tax limitation table in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. In applying paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this section, a taxpayer must first determine whether he or she qualifies for the limitation amount applicable to taxpayers with household income of less than 200 percent of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size. If the taxpayer does not qualify to use the limitation amount applicable to taxpayers with household income of less than 200 percent of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size, the taxpayer must next determine whether he or she qualifies for the limitation applicable to taxpayers with household income of less than 300 percent of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size. If the taxpayer does not qualify to use the limitation amount applicable to taxpayers with household income of less than 300 percent of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size, the taxpayer must next determine whether he or she qualifies for the limitation applicable to taxpayers with household income of less than 400 percent of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size. If the taxpayer does not qualify to use the limitation amount applicable to taxpayers with household income of less than 200 percent, 300 percent, or 400 percent of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size, the limitation on additional tax under section 36B(f)(2)(B) does not apply to the taxpayer.


(C) *Requirements.* A taxpayer meets the requirements of this paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) for a limitation amount if the taxpayer's household income as a percentage of the Federal poverty line is less than or equal to the maximum household income as a percentage of the Federal poverty line for which that limitation is available. Household income for this purpose is determined by using a section 162(l) deduction equal to the lesser of—


(*1*) The sum of the specified premiums for the plan not paid through advance credit payments, the limitation amount (determined without regard to paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(C)(*2*) of this section), and any deduction allowable under section 162(l) for premiums other than specified premiums, and


(*2*) The earned income from the trade or business with respect to which the health insurance plan is established.


(D) *Specified premiums not paid through advance credit payments.* For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this section, specified premiums not paid through advance credit payments means specified premiums, as defined in § 1.162(l)-1(a)(2), minus advance credit payments made with respect to the specified premiums.


(E) *Examples.* For examples illustrating the rules of this paragraph (a)(3)(iii), see *Examples 13, 14,* and *15* of paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (a). In each example the taxpayer enrolls in a higher cost qualified health plan than the applicable benchmark plan:


(b) *Changes in filing status*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, a taxpayer whose marital status changes during the taxable year computes the premium tax credit by using the applicable benchmark plan or plans for the taxpayer's marital status as of the first day of each coverage month. The taxpayer's contribution amount (household income for the taxable year times the applicable percentage) is determined using the taxpayer's household income and family size at the end of the taxable year.


(2) *Taxpayers who marry during the taxable year*—(i) *In general.* Taxpayers who marry during and file a joint return for the taxable year may compute the additional tax imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. Only taxpayers who are unmarried at the beginning of the taxable year and are married (within the meaning of section 7703) at the end of the taxable year, at least one of whom receives advance credit payments, may use this alternative computation.


(ii) *Alternative computation of additional tax liability*—(A) *In general.* The additional tax liability determined under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) is equal to the excess of the taxpayers' advance credit payments for the taxable year over the amount of the alternative marriage-year credit. The alternative marriage-year credit is the sum of both taxpayers' alternative premium assistance amounts for the pre-marriage months and the premium assistance amounts for the marriage months. This paragraph (b)(2)(ii) may not be used to increase the additional premium tax credit computed under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(B) *Alternative premium assistance amounts for pre-marriage months.* Taxpayers compute the alternative premium assistance amounts for each taxpayer for each full or partial month the taxpayers are unmarried as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except that each taxpayer treats the amount of household income as one-half of the actual household income for the taxable year and treats family size as the number of individuals in the taxpayer's family prior to the marriage. The taxpayers may include a dependent of the taxpayers for the taxable year in either taxpayer's family size for the pre-marriage months.


(C) *Premium assistance amounts for marriage months.* Taxpayers compute the premium assistance amounts for each full month the taxpayers are married as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(3) *Taxpayers not married to each other at the end of the taxable year.* Taxpayers who are married (within the meaning of section 7703) to each other during a taxable year but legally separate under a decree of divorce or of separate maintenance during the taxable year, and who are enrolled in the same qualified health plan at any time during the taxable year must allocate the benchmark plan premiums, the enrollment premiums, and the advance credit payments for the period the taxpayers are married during the taxable year. Taxpayers must also allocate these items if one of the taxpayers has a dependent enrolled in the same plan as the taxpayer's former spouse or enrolled in the same plan as a dependent of the taxpayer's former spouse. The taxpayers may allocate these items to each former spouse in any proportion but must allocate all items in the same proportion. If the taxpayers do not agree on an allocation that is reported to the IRS in accordance with the relevant forms and instructions, 50 percent of: The benchmark plan premiums; the enrollment premiums; and the advance credit payments for the married period, is allocated to each taxpayer. If for a period a plan covers only one of the taxpayers and no dependents, only one of the taxpayers and one or more dependents of that same taxpayer, or only one or more dependents of one of the taxpayers, then the benchmark plan premiums, the enrollment premiums, and the advance credit payments for that period are allocated entirely to that taxpayer.




(4) *Taxpayers filing returns as married filing separately or head of household*—(i) *Allocation of advance credit payments.* Except as provided in § 1.36B-2(b)(2)(ii), the premium tax credit is allowed to married (within the meaning of section 7703) taxpayers only if they file joint returns. *See* § 1.36B-2(b)(2)(i). Taxpayers who receive advance credit payments as married taxpayers and who do not file a joint return must allocate the advance credit payments for coverage under a qualified health plan equally to each taxpayer for any period the plan covers and in which advance credit payments are made for both taxpayers, only one of the taxpayers and one or more dependents of the other taxpayer, or one or more dependents of both taxpayers. If, for a period a plan covers, advance credit payments are made for only one of the taxpayers and no dependents, only one of the taxpayers and one or more dependents of that same taxpayer, or only one or more dependents of one of the taxpayers, the advance credit payments for that period are allocated entirely to that taxpayer. If one or both of the taxpayers is an applicable taxpayer eligible for a premium tax credit for the taxable year, the premium tax credit is computed by allocating the enrollment premiums under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. The repayment limitation described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section applies to each taxpayer based on the household income and family size reported on that taxpayer's return. This paragraph (b)(4) also applies to taxpayers who receive advance credit payments as married taxpayers and file a tax return using the head of household filing status.


(ii) *Allocation of premiums.* If taxpayers who are married within the meaning of section 7703, without regard to section 7703(b), do not file a joint return, 50 percent of the enrollment premiums are allocated to each taxpayer. However, all of the enrollment premiums are allocated to only one of the taxpayers for a period in which a qualified health plan covers only that taxpayer and no dependents, only that taxpayer and one or more dependents of that taxpayer, or only one or more dependents of that taxpayer.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b). In each example the taxpayer enrolls in a higher cost qualified health plan than the applicable benchmark plan:


(c) * Applicability dates.* Paragraphs (a)(1)(ii), (a)(3)(iii), (a)(4), *Examples 4, 10,**11, 12,**13, 14,* and *15,* (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5), *Examples 9* and *10* apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013. The last sentence of paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*1*), paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*2*), and paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section apply to taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2020. 





---

[N] [T.D. 9590, 77 FR 30385, May 23, 2012; 77 FR 41048, July 12, 2012; 77 FR 41270, July 13, 2012, as amended by T.D. 9683, 79 FR 43627, July 28, 2014; T.D. 9822, 82 FR 34607, July 26, 2017; T.D. 9912, 85 FR 76978, Dec. 1, 2020]




