# § 300.102   Relationship to other treaties, conventions, laws, and regulations.

(a) Other conventions and treaties to which the United States is a party and other Federal statutes and implementing regulations may impose additional restrictions on the harvesting and importation into the United States of AMLRs.


(b) The ACA implements the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty. The ACA and its implementing regulations (including, but not limited to, 45 CFR part 670) apply to certain defined activities of U.S. citizens south of 60° S lat.




(c) The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 *et seq.*), the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 701 *et seq.*), and their implementing regulations also apply to the harvesting and importation of AMLRs.


(d) Rule making exceptions. When implementing conservation measures adopted and notified by CCAMLR, NMFS may apply the following exceptions to Administrative Procedure Act (APA) rulemaking requirements at 5 U.S.C. 553(b)-(d):


(1) The foreign affairs function exception of the APA, 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(1); or


(2) The exception under subsection 307(b) of AMLRCA, 16 U.S.C. 2436(b), that provides that, notwithstanding 5 U.S.C. 553(b)-(d), NMFS may publish in the _Federal Register_ a final regulation to implement any CCAMLR-adopted conservation measure—


(i) That has been in effect for 12 months or less, beginning on the date that the Commission notifies the United States of the conservation measure under Article IX of the Convention; and


(ii) With respect to which the Secretary of State does not notify the Commission in accordance with section 305(a)(1) of AMLRCA within the time period allotted for objections under Article IX of the Convention.


(e) Annual or biennial measures. NMFS may implement annual or biennial measures adopted by CCAMLR as conditions to vessel permits issued under section 300.107, instead of through rulemaking.







---

[N] [82 FR 6223, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 20137, Mar. 21, 2024]






