# § 721.5575   Oxirane, 2,2′-(1,6-hexanediylbis (oxymethylene)) bis-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2′-(1,6-hexanediylbis(oxymethylene))bis- (PMN P-88-2179; PMN P-89-539; and SNUN S-08-3; CAS No. 16096-31-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The reporting requirements of this rule do not apply once the chemical substance has been incorporated or encapsulated into plastic.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1),(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), and (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). A significant new use of the chemical substance is any commercial use other than the commercial use described in S-08-3.


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2)(ii), (b)(1), and (c)(1). The following may be used as an alternative to the technologies in § 721.90(a)(2)(ii): Oil and grease separation.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: § 721.125 (a) through (k).


(2) *Limitation of revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 19238, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 80 FR 70175, Nov. 13, 2015]




