# § 3403.14   Use of funds; changes.

(a) *Delegation of fiscal responsibility.* Unless the terms and conditions of the grant state otherwise, the grantee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.


(b) *Changes in Project Plans.* (1) The permissible changes by the grantee, Project Director, or other key project personnel in the approved project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other similar aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the Project Director (PD) is uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO) for a final determination. The signatory of the award document is the ADO, not the program contact.


(2) Changes in approved goals or objectives shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the original approved project.


(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes.


(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such transfers, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of the grant.


(c) *Changes in Project Period.* The project period may be extended by NIFA without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the ADO determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project provided Federal funds remain. Any extension of time shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the ADO unless otherwise noted in the award terms and conditions. In such cases the extension will not normally exceed 12 months. The Phase I award will still be limited to the approved award amount, and the submission of a Phase II proposal will normally be delayed by no more than one year. The extension allows the grantee to continue expending the remaining Federal funds for the intended purpose over the extension period. In instances where no Federal funds remain, it is unnecessary to approve an extension since the purpose of the extension is to continue using Federal funds. The grantee may opt to continue the Phase I project after the grant's termination and closeout, however, the grantee would have to do so without additional Federal funds. In the latter case, no communication with USDA is necessary.


(d) *Changes in approved budget.* Changes in an approved budget must be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the ADO prior to instituting such changes if the revision will involve transfers or expenditures of amounts requiring prior approval as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, Departmental regulations, or grant award.


(e) *Use of Change of Name and Novation Agreement.* (1) Occasionally, after an award has been made the name of the Awardee may change. NIFA requires execution of a “Change of Name Agreement” in such instances. The specific circumstances of each situation will determine which kind of agreement should be executed. This decision will be determined by the ADO.


(i) A Change of Name Agreement is a legal instrument executed by the Awardee and the Government that recognizes a change of the legal name of the Awardee without disturbing the original rights and obligations of the parties. If only a change of the Awardee's name is involved and the Government's and Awardee's rights and obligations remain unaffected, the parties should execute an agreement to reflect the name change.


(ii) In order to execute the actual Change of Name Agreement with USDA, the Awardee is required to submit the following information:


(A) The document effecting the name change, authenticated by a proper official of the State having jurisdiction;


(B) The opinion of the Grantee's legal counsel stating that the change of name was properly effected under applicable law and showing the effective date;


(C) A list of all affected awards between the Grantee and NIFA.


(iii) When NIFA is notified that a change of name has taken place, the ADO will request the aforementioned information from the Grantee. Upon receipt and review of this information, parties will properly execute a Change of Name Agreement and the appropriate changes will be made to the Agency's records. The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:


(2) From time to time the legal entity performing the research under the award may have to be changed. In such instances, USDA will ensure that all parties properly execute a Novation Agreement (Successor in Interest Agreement).


(i) A Novation Agreement is a legal instrument executed by the Grantee (transferor), the successor in interest (transferee), and the Government by which, among other things, the transferor guarantees performance of the award, the transferee assumes all obligations under the award, and the Government recognizes the transfer of the award and related assets. This occurs when the third party's interest in the award arises out of the transfer of all the Grantee's assets or the entire portion of the assets involved in performing the award. Examples include, but are not limited to: the sale of these assets with a provision for assuming liabilities; the transfer of these assets incident to a merger or corporate consolidation; and the incorporation of a proprietorship or partnership, or the formation of a partnership.


(ii) When a Grantee asks the Government to recognize a successor in interest, the responsible ADO shall obtain the following from the Grantee:


(A) An authenticated copy of the instrument effecting the transfer of assets; e.g., bill of sale, certificate of merger, contract, deed, agreement, or court decree;


(B) A list of all affected awards;


(C) A certified copy of each resolution of the corporate parties' boards of directors authorizing the transfer of assets;


(D) A certified copy of the minutes of each corporate party's stockholder meeting necessary to approve the transfer of assets;


(E) The opinion of legal counsel for the transferor and transferee stating that the transfer was properly effected under applicable law and the effective date of transfer;


(F) An authenticated copy of the transferee's certificate and articles of incorporation, if a corporation was formed for the purpose of receiving the assets involved in performing the Government award;


(G) Evidence of transferee's capability to perform the award; and


(H) Balance sheets of the transferor and transferee as of the dates immediately before and after the transfer of assets, certified for accuracy by independent accountants.


(iii) The ADO will review the Agency's financial records concerning the correct cash-on-hand balances held by the transferor to ensure that they are properly accounted for in the transfer process. If recognizing a successor in interest to a Government award is consistent with the Government's interest, the ADO will prepare a Novation Agreement for execution by all three parties. The agreement will provide that:


(A) The transferee assumes all the transferor's obligations under the award(s);


(B) The transferor waives all rights under the award against the Government;


(C) The transferor guarantees performance of the award by the transferee (a satisfactory performance bond may be accepted instead of the guarantee); and


(D) Nothing in the agreement shall relieve the transferor or transferee from compliance with any Federal law.


(E) The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:


