# ยง 143.6   Failure to maintain performance standards.

ABI participants must adhere to the performance requirements and operational standards of the ABI system and maintain a high level of quality in the transmission of data, as defined in Customs Publication 552 (CATAIR) and Customs directives and policy statements, in order to participate in ABI.


(a) *Probational status.* A participant who does not adhere to the requirements and standards of the ABI system or maintain a high level of quality as described above may be placed on probational status. The participant will be notified, electronically and in writing, by the Director, User Support Services Division, of any action to place the participant on probation. The notice will specifically set forth the grounds for the proposed probation, and advise the participant that he will have 15 days from the date of the notice to show cause why the probationary period should not take effect. If the participant fails to respond within the allotted time, or fails to show to the satisfaction of the Director, User Support Services Division, that the probationary period should not take effect, the Director will notify the participant of the effective date of the probationary period. The length of the probationary period may, in the discretion of the Director, User Support Services Division, be extended up to a maximum of 90 days, if the participant's performance remains below standard, but, except for immediate revocation under ยง 143.7, participation will not be suspended or revoked until the probationary period has lasted a minimum of 30 days. The participant's performance will be closely monitored during this time, which will include working with the participant and providing any necessary guidance to assist the participant in bringing his performance back to standard.


(b) *Suspension following probationary period.* If deficiencies are not corrected within the probationary period, the participant will be suspended from operational status. The participant will be notified, electronically and in writing, by the Director, User Support Services Division, of any action to suspend participation. The notice will specifically set forth the grounds and effective date for the suspension, and the right to appeal the suspension to the Assistant Commissioner, Information and Technology, within 10 days following the date of the written notice of suspension (see ยง 143.8).


(c) *Reinstatement following suspension.* To obtain reinstatement to operational status, a suspended participant must submit a letter to the Director, User Support Services Division, stating that the deficiencies for which the suspension was invoked have been corrected. If, after the participant has demonstrated compliance with the system performance requirements and operational standards specified in ยง 143.5 of this part, if required, the Director is satisfied that the deficiencies have been corrected, the participant will be reinstated.




