# § 552.52   Explanation of terms.

(a) *Agent.* Anyone who solicits the ordering or purchasing of goods, services, or commodities in exchange for money. “Agent” includes an individual who receives remuneration as a salesman for an insurer or whose remuneration is dependent on volume of sales or the making of sales.


(b) *Solicitation.* The conduct of any private business, including the offering and sale of insurance on a military installation, whether initiated by the seller or the buyer. (Solicitation on installations is a privilege as distinguished from a right, and its control is a responsibility vested in the installation commander, subject to compliance with applicable regulations.)


(c) *Door-to-door solicitation.* A sales method whereby an agent proceeds randomly or selectively from household to household without specific prior appointments or invitations. Door-to-door solicitation is not permitted on Army installations.


(d) *Specific appointment.* A prearranged appointment that has been agreed upon by both parties and is definite as to place and time.


(e) *Insurer.* Any company or association engaged in the business of selling insurance policies to Department of Defense (DOD) personnel.


(f) *Insurance carrier.* An insurance company issuing insurance through an association or reinsuring or coinsuring such insurance.


(g) *Insurance policy.* A policy or certificate of insurance issued by an insurer or evidence of insurance coverage issued by a self-insured association.


(h) *DOD personnel.* Unless stated otherwise, such personnel means all active duty officer and enlisted members, and civilian employees of the Armed Forces. This includes Government employees of all the offices, agencies, and departments carrying on functions on a Defense installation, including non-appropriated fund instrumentalities. 




