# ยง 665.253   Annual Catch Limits (ACL) and Annual Catch Targets (ACT).

(a) *Deepwater Shrimp.* (1) In accordance with ยง 665.4, the ACLs for each fishing year are as follows:


(2) If the average catch of the three most recent years of deepwater shrimp exceeds the specified ACL in a fishing year, the Regional Administrator will reduce the ACL for the subsequent year by the amount of the overage.


(b) *MHI Kona crab.* (1) In accordance with ยง 665.4, the ACLs and ACTs for each fishing year are as follows:


(2) When the ACT is projected to be reached based on analyses of available information, the Regional Administrator shall publish a document to that effect in the _Federal Register_ and shall use other means to notify affected fishermen. The document will include an advisement that the fishery will be closed beginning on a specified date, which is not earlier than 7 days after the date of filing the closure notice for public inspection at the Office of the Federal Register, until the end of the fishing year in which the ACL is reached.


(3) On and after the date specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, no person may fish for, possess, sell, or offer for sale any Kona crab from a closed fishery in the Federal waters of the MHI, except as otherwise allowed in this section.


(4) If landings exceed the specified ACL in a fishing year, the Regional Administrator will reduce the ACL and the ACT for the subsequent year by the amount of the overage.



---

[N] [85 FR 79929, Dec. 11, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 14082, Mar. 7, 2023; 89 FR 37986, May 7, 2024]




