# § 3282.15   Exemption for recreational vehicles.

(a) *Exemption.* A recreational vehicle that meets the requirements of this section is exempt from 24 CFR parts 3280 and 3282.


(b) *Definition.* A recreational vehicle is:


(1) A vehicle or vehicular structure not certified as a manufactured home;


(2) Designed only for recreational use and not as a primary residence or for permanent occupancy; and is either:


(i) Built and certified in accordance with either NFPA 1192 (incorporated by reference, see § 3282.16) or ANSI A119.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 3282.16) as provided by paragraph (c) of this section; or


(ii) Any vehicle which is self-propelled.


(c) *Notice and certification requirements.* In order for the exemption to apply to an ANSI A119.5-15 certified recreational vehicle, a Manufacturer's Notice must be delivered to the consumer prior to the completion of the sales transaction. The Manufacturer's Notice must also be prominently displayed in a temporary manner in the kitchen (*i.e.,* countertop or exposed cabinet face). The Manufacturer's Notice must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Title of Manufacturer's Notice.* The title of the Manufacturer's Notice shall be “*****MANUFACTURER'S NOTICE*****” which shall be legible and typed using bold letters at least 1 inch in size.


(2) *Content of Notice.* The content of the Manufacturer's Notice text shall be as follows:


The Manufacturer of this unit certifies that it is a Park Model Recreational Vehicle designed only for recreational use, and not for use as a primary residence or for permanent occupancy. The manufacturer of this unit further certifies that this unit has been built in accordance with the ANSI A119.5-15 consensus standard for Park Model Recreational Vehicles.


(3) *Text of Notice.* The text of the Manufacturer's Notice, aside from the Manufacturer's Notice's title shall be legible and typed using letters at least 
1/2 inch in size.


(4) *Removal of Manufacturer's Notice.* The Manufacturer's Notice shall not be removed by any party until the entire sales transaction has been completed.


(5) *Completion of sales transaction.* A sales transaction with a Park Model Recreational Vehicle purchaser is considered completed when all the goods and services that the dealer agreed to provide at the time the contract was formed have been provided. Completion of a retail sale will be at the time the dealer completes installation of the Park Model Recreational Vehicle, if the dealer has agreed to provide the installation, or at the time the dealer delivers the recreational vehicle to a transporter, if the dealer has not agreed to transport or install the Park Model Recreational Vehicle. The sale is also complete upon delivery to the site if the dealer has not agreed to provide installation as completion of sale.



---

[N] [83 FR 57688, Nov. 16, 2018]




