# § 1.1383-1   Computation of tax where cooperative redeems nonqualified written notices of allocation.

(a) *General rule.* (1) If, during the taxable year, a cooperative organization is entitled to a deduction under section 1382 (b)(2) or (c)(2)(B) for amounts paid in redemption of nonqualified written notices of allocation, the tax imposed for the taxable year by chapter 1 of the Code shall be the lesser of:


(i) The tax for the taxable year computed under section 1383(a)(1), that is, with such deduction taken into account, or


(ii) The tax for the taxable year computed under section 1383(a)(2), that is, without taking such deduction into account, minus the decrease in tax (under chapter 1 of the Code) for any prior taxable year (or years) which would result solely from treating all such nonqualified written notices of allocation redeemed during the taxable year as qualified written notices of allocation when paid. For the purpose of this subdivision, the amount of the decrease in tax is not limited to the amount of the tax for the taxable year. See paragraph (c) of this section for rules relating to a refund of tax where the decrease in tax for the prior taxable year (or years) exceeds the tax for the taxable year.


(2) If the cooperative organization computes its tax for the taxable year under the provisions of section 1383(a)(2) and subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, then no deduction under section 1382 (b)(2) or (c)(2)(B) shall be taken into account in computing taxable income or loss for the taxable year, including the computation of any net operating loss carryback or carryover. However, the amount of the deduction shall be taken into account in adjusting earnings and profits for the taxable year.


(3) If the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph is the same as the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, the tax imposed for the taxable year under chapter 1 of the Code shall be the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(l) of this paragraph, and section 1383 and this section shall not otherwise apply. The tax imposed for the taxable year shall be the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph in any case when a credit or refund would be allowable for the taxable year under section 1383(b)(1).


(b) *Determination of decrease in tax for prior taxable years*—(1) *Prior taxable years.* The prior taxable year (or years) referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is the year (or years) within the payment period for which the nonqualified written notices of allocation were paid and, in addition, any other prior taxable year (or years) which is affected by the adjustment to income by reason of treating such nonqualified written notices of allocation as qualified written notices of allocation when paid.


(2) *Adjustment to income in prior taxable years.* The deduction for the prior taxable year (or years) in determining the decrease in tax under section 1383(a)(2)(B) and paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section shall be the amount paid in redemption of the nonqualified written notices of allocation which, without regard to section 1383, is allowable as a deduction under section 1382 (b)(2) or (c)(2)(B) for the current taxable year.


(3) *Computation of decrease in tax for prior taxable years.* In computing the amount of decrease in tax for a prior taxable year (or years) resulting under this section, there must first be ascertained the amount of tax previously determined for the taxpayer for such prior taxable year (or years). The tax previously determined shall be the sum of the amounts shown as such tax by the taxpayer on his return or returns, plus any amounts which have been previously assessed (or collected without assessment) as deficiencies, reduced by the amount of any rebates which have previously been made. The amount shown as the tax by the taxpayer on his return and the amount of any rebates or deficiencies shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of section 6211 and the regulations thereunder. After the tax previously determined has been ascertained, a recomputation must then be made to determine the decrease in tax, if any, resulting under this section. In determining the decrease in tax for the prior taxable year (or years), appropriate adjustment shall be made to any item which is dependent upon the amount of gross income or taxable income (such as charitable contributions, net operating losses, the foreign tax credit, and the dividends received credit).


(c) *Refunds.* If the decrease in tax for the prior taxable year (or years) determined under section 1383(a)(2)(B) and paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section exceeds the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Code for the taxable year computed without the deduction under section 1382 (b) or (c)(2)(B), the excess shall be considered to be a payment of tax for the taxable year of the deduction. Such payment is deemed to have been made on the last day prescribed by law for the payment of tax for the taxable year and shall be refunded or credited in the same manner as if it were an overpayment of tax for such taxable year. See section 6151 and the regulations thereunder, for rules relating to time and place for paying tax shown on returns.


(d) *Example.* The application of section 1383 may be illustrated by the following example:



---

[N] [T.D. 6643, 28 FR 3156, Apr. 2, 1963]




