# § 675.300   What definitions apply to these regulations?

In addition to the definitions set forth in WIOA and those set forth in specific parts of this chapter, the following definitions apply to the regulations in parts 675 through 688 of this chapter:


*Consultation* means the process by which State and/or local stakeholders convene to discuss changes to the public workforce system and constitutes a robust conversation in which all parties are given an opportunity to share their thoughts and opinions.


*Contract* means a legal instrument by which a non-Federal entity purchases property or services needed to carry out the project or program under a Federal award. The term as used in this part does not include a legal instrument, even if the non-Federal entity considers it a contract, when the substance of the transaction meets the definition of a Federal award or subaward as defined in this section.


*Contractor* means an entity that receives a contract as defined in this section.


*Cooperative agreement* means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and a non-Federal entity that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302-6305:


(1) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value from the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity to the non-Federal entity to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal government or pass-through entity's direct benefit or use;


(2) Is distinguished from a grant in that it provides for substantial involvement between the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.


(3) The term does not include:


(i) A cooperative research and development agreement as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a; or


(ii) An agreement that provides only:


(A) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;


(B) A subsidy;


(C) A loan;


(D) A loan guarantee; or


(E) Insurance.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units.


*Employment and training activity* means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for an adult or dislocated worker under part 678 of this chapter.


*Equal opportunity data* or *EO data* means data on race and ethnicity, age, sex, and disability required by 29 CFR part 38 of the Department of Labor regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, governing nondiscrimination.


*Employment and Training Administration* or *ETA* means the Employment and Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.


*Family* means two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or decree of court, who are living in a single residence, and are included in one or more of the following categories:


(1) A married couple and dependent children;


(2) A parent or guardian and dependent children; or


(3) A married couple.


*Federal award* means:


(1) The Federal financial assistance that a non-Federal entity receives directly from a Federal awarding agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity, as described in 2 CFR 200.101 (Applicability);


(2) The cost-reimbursement contract under the Federal Acquisition Regulations that a non-Federal entity receives directly from a Federal awarding agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity, as described in 2 CFR 200.101 (Applicability); and


(3) The instrument setting forth the terms and conditions. The instrument is the grant agreement, cooperative agreement, other agreement for assistance covered in paragraph (b) of 2 CFR 200.40 (Federal financial assistance), or the cost-reimbursement contract awarded under the Federal Acquisition Regulations.


(4) Federal award does not include other contracts that a Federal agency uses to buy goods or services from a contractor or a contract to operate Federal government owned, contractor operated facilities (GOCOs).


*Federal financial assistance* means:


(1) For grants and cooperative agreements, assistance in the form of:


(i) Grants;


(ii) Cooperative agreements;


(iii) Non-cash contributions or donations of property (including donated surplus property);


(iv) Direct appropriations;


(v) Food commodities; and


(vi) Other financial assistance, except assistance listed in paragraph (2) of this definition.


(2) For purposes of the audit requirements at 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, Federal financial assistance includes assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of:


(i) Loans;


(ii) Loan Guarantees;


(iii) Interest subsidies; and


(iv) Insurance.


(3) Federal financial assistance does not include amounts received as reimbursement for services rendered to individuals as described in 2 CFR 200.502, which outlines the basis for determining Federal awards expended.


*Grant* or *grant agreement* means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal awarding agency and a non-Federal entity that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302, 6304:


(1) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value from the Federal awarding agency to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal awarding agency's direct benefit or use;


(2) Is distinguished from a cooperative agreement in that it does not provide for substantial involvement between the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.


(3) Grant agreement does not include an agreement that provides only:


(i) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;


(ii) A subsidy;


(iii) A loan;


(iv) A loan guarantee; or


(v) Insurance.


*Grantee* means the direct recipient of grant funds from the Department of Labor under a grant or grant agreement. A grantee also may be referred to as a recipient.


*Individual with a disability* means an individual with any disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102). For purposes of WIOA sec. 188, this term is defined at 29 CFR 38.4.


*Labor Federation* means an alliance of two or more organized labor unions for the purpose of mutual support and action.


*Literacy* means an individual's ability to read, write, and speak in English, and to compute, and solve problems, at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the job, in the family of the individual, and in society.


*Local WDB* means a Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) established under WIOA sec. 107, to set policy for the local workforce development system.


*Non-Federal entity,* as defined in 2 CFR 2900.2, means a State, local government, Indian tribe, institution of higher education (IHE), for-profit entity, foreign public entity, foreign organization or nonprofit organization that carries out a Federal award as a recipient or subrecipient.


*Obligations* when used in connection with a non-Federal entity's utilization of funds under a Federal award, means orders placed for property and services, contracts and subawards made, and similar transactions during a given period that require payment by the non- Federal entity during the same or a future period.


*Outlying area* means:


(1) The United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and


(2) The Republic of Palau, except during a period that the Secretaries determine both that a Compact of Free Association is in effect and that the Compact contains provisions for training and education assistance prohibiting the assistance provided under WIOA.


*Pass-through entity* means a non-Federal entity that provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a Federal program.


*Recipient* means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out an activity under a Federal program. The term recipient does not include subrecipients.


*Register* means the process for collecting information, including identifying information, to determine an individual's eligibility for services under WIOA title I. Individuals may be registered in a variety ways, as described in § 680.110 of this chapter.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor, or their designee.


*Secretaries* means the Secretaries of the U.S. Department Labor and the U.S. Department of Education, or their designees.


*Self-certification* means an individual's signed attestation that the information they submit to demonstrate eligibility for a program under title I of WIOA is true and accurate.


*State* means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The term “State” does not include outlying areas.


*State WDB* means a State Workforce Development Board (WDB) established under WIOA sec. 101.


*Subgrant* or *subaward* means an award provided by a pass-through entity to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to carry out part of a Federal award received by the pass-through entity. It does not include payments to a contractor or payments to an individual that is a beneficiary of a Federal program. A subaward may be provided through any form of legal agreement, including an agreement that the pass-through entity considers a contract.


*Subrecipient* means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from a pass-through entity to carry out part of a Federal program, but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such program. A subrecipient also may be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal awarding agency.


*Unliquidated obligations* means, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, obligations incurred by the non-Federal entity that have not been paid (liquidated). For reports prepared on an accrual expenditure basis, these are obligations incurred by the non-Federal entity for which an expenditure has not been recorded.


*Unobligated balance* means the amount of funds under a Federal award that the non-Federal entity has not obligated. The amount is computed by subtracting the cumulative amount of the non-Federal entity's unliquidated obligations and expenditures of funds under the Federal award from the cumulative amount of the funds that the Federal awarding agency or pass- through entity authorized the non- Federal entity to obligate.


*Wagner-Peyser Act* means the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended, codified at 29 U.S.C. 49 *et seq.*

*WIA regulations* mean the regulations in parts 660 through 672 of this chapter, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in part 652, subpart C, of this chapter, and the regulations implementing WIA sec. 188 in 29 CFR part 37.


*WIOA regulations* mean the regulations in parts 675 through 687 of this chapter, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in part 652, subpart C, of this chapter, and the regulations implementing WIA sec. 188 in 29 CFR part 38.


*Workforce investment activities* mean the array of activities permitted under title I of WIOA, which include employment and training activities for adults and dislocated workers, as described in WIOA sec. 134, and youth activities, as described in WIOA sec. 129.


*Youth workforce investment activity* means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for eligible youth under part 679 of this chapter.




