# § 600.420   Release of confidential information.

NMFS will not disclose to the public any information made confidential pursuant to the Magnuson-Stevens Act, except the agency may disclose information when:


(a) Authorized by regulations issued by the Secretary to implement recommendations contained in an FMP prepared by the North Pacific Council and approved by NMFS to allow disclosure of observer information to the public of weekly summary bycatch information identified by vessel or for haul-specific bycatch information without vessel identification;


(b) Observer information is necessary in proceedings to adjudicate observer certifications;


(c) Information is required to be submitted to the Secretary for any determination under a limited access program (LAP). This exception applies at the level of confidential information that NMFS has used, or intends to use, for a regulatory determination under a LAP. This includes information that was submitted before the fishery was a LAP and that NMFS subsequently uses or intends to use for a LAP determination. For the purposes of this exception:


(1) *Limited Access Program* means a program that allocates exclusive fishing privileges, such as a portion of the total allowable catch, an amount of fishing effort, or a specific fishing area, to a person.


(2) *Determination* means a decision that is specific to a person and exclusive fishing privileges held or sought under a limited access program. These decisions are allocations, approval or denial of a lease or sale of allocated privileges or annual allocation, and end of season adjustments.


(d) Required to comply with a Federal court order. For purposes of this exception:


(1) *Court* means an institution of the judicial branch of the U.S. Federal Government. Entities not in the judicial branch of the Federal Government are not courts for purposes of this section;


(2) *Court order* means any legal process which satisfies all of the following conditions:


(i) It is issued under the authority of a Federal court;


(ii) A judge or magistrate judge of that court signs it; and


(iii) It commands NMFS to disclose confidential information as defined under § 600.10.


(e) Necessary for enforcement of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA or when necessary for enforcement of any State living marine resource laws, if that State has a joint enforcement agreement that is in effect.


(f) A person that is subject to a Magnuson-Stevens Act submission of information requirement or their designee provides written authorization to the Secretary authorizing release of such information to other persons for reasons not otherwise provided for in section 402(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act and such release does not violate other requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Act. That person or their designee must prove identity, and authorization to act if serving as a designee, by a statement consistent with 28 U.S.C. 1746, which permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization. The statement of identity, and authority to serve as a designee, must be in the following form:


(1) If executed outside the United States: “I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature)”.


(2) If executed within the United States, its territories, possessions, or commonwealths: “I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature)”.






