# § 61.349   Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) For each closed-vent system and control device used to comply with standards in accordance with §§ 61.343 through 61.348 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall properly design, install, operate, and maintain the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the following requirements:


(1) The closed-vent system shall:


(i) Be designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, as determined initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h) of this subpart.


(ii) Vent systems that contain any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall install, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow indicator that provides a record of vent stream flow away from the control device at least once every 15 minutes, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. 


(A) The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere. 


(B) Where the bypass line valve is secured in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration, a flow indicator is not required. 


(iii) All gauging and sampling devices shall be gas-tight except when gauging or sampling is taking place.


(iv) For each closed-vent system complying with paragraph (a) of this section, one or more devices which vent directly to the atmosphere may be used on the closed-vent system provided each device remains in a closed, sealed position during normal operations except when the device needs to open to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation of the closed-vent system resulting from malfunction of the unit in accordance with good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, explosive, or other hazardous materials. 


(2) The control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the following conditions:


(i) An enclosed combustion device (e.g., a vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) shall meet one of the following conditions:


(A) Reduce the organic emissions vented to it by 95 weight percent or greater;


(B) Achieve a total organic compound concentration of 20 ppmv (as the sum of the concentrations for individual compounds using Method 18) on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen; or 


(C) Provide a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 °C (1,400 °F). If a boiler or process heater issued as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.


(ii) A vapor recovery system (e.g., a carbon adsorption system or a condenser) shall recover or control the organic emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater, or shall recover or control the benzene emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 98 weight percent or greater. 


(iii) A flare shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 60.18.


(iv) A control device other than those described in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (iii) of this section may be used provided that the following conditions are met: 


(A) The device shall recover or control the organic emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater, or shall recover or control the benzene emissions vented to it with an efficiency of 98 weight percent or greater. 


(B) The owner or operator shall develop test data and design information that documents the control device will achieve an emission control efficiency of either 95 percent or greater for organic compounds or 98 percent or greater for benzene. 


(C) The owner or operator shall identify: 


(*1*) The critical operating parameters that affect the emission control performance of the device;


(*2*) The range of values of these operating parameters that ensure the emission control efficiency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is maintained during operation of the device; and 


(*3*) How these operating parameters will be monitored to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the device. 


(D) The owner or operator shall submit the information and data specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iv) (B) and (C) of this section to the Administrator prior to operation of the alternative control device. 


(E) The Administrator will determine, based on the information submitted under paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(D) of this section, if the control device subiect to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section meets the requirements of § 61.349. The control device subject to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section may be operated prior to receiving approval from the Administrator. However, if the Administrator determines that the control device does not meet the requirements of § 61.349, the facility may be subject to enforcement action beginning from the time the control device began operation. 


(b) Each closed-vent system and control device used to comply with this subpart shall be operated at all times when waste is placed in the waste management unit vented to the control device except when maintenance or repair of the waste management unit cannot be completed without a shutdown of the control device.


(c) An owner and operator shall demonstrate that each control device, except for a flare, achieves the appropriate conditions specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by using one of the following methods:


(1) Engineering calculations in accordance with requirements specified in § 61.356(f) of this subpart; or


(2) Performance tests conducted using the test methods and procedures that meet the requirements specified in § 61.355 of this subpart.


(d) An owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance of each flare in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.


(e) The Administrator may request at any time an owner or operator demonstrate that a control device meets the applicable conditions specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by conducting a performance test using the test methods and procedures as required in § 61.355, and for control devices subject to paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, the Administrator may specify alternative test methods and procedures, as appropriate. 


(f) Each closed-vent system and control device shall be visually inspected initially and quarterly thereafter. The visual inspection shall include inspection of ductwork and piping and connections to covers and control devices for evidence of visable defects such as holes in ductwork or piping and loose connections.


(g) Except as provided in § 61.350 of this subpart, if visible defects are observed during an inspection, or if other problems are identified, or if detectable emissions are measured, a first effort to repair the closed-vent system and control device shall be made as soon as practicable but no later than 5 calendar days after detection. Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the emissions are detected or the visible defect is observed.


(h) The owner or operator of a control device that is used to comply with the provisions of this section shall monitor the control device in accordance with § 61.354(c) of this subpart.



---

[N] [55 FR 8346, Mar. 7, 1990; 55 FR 12444, Apr. 3, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 37231, Sept. 10, 1990; 58 FR 3098, Jan. 7, 1993; 65 FR 62160, Oct. 17, 2000]




