# ยง 73.4   Communications.

Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent as follows: 


(a) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, as appropriate, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001;


(b) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2783; 


(c) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;* by e-mail to *MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;* or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. 


(d) Classified communications shall be transmitted to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address as specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter or delivered by hand in accordance with this paragraph.



---

[N] [68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 5725, Jan. 31, 2008; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019; 88 FR 57879, Aug. 24, 2023]




