# ยง 152.26   Furnishing value information to importer.

The Center director will furnish to importers the latest information as to values in his possession, subject to the following conditions:


(a) *Before appraisement.* Value information will be given before appraisement only in response to a specific oral or written request by the importer, supported by an adequate reason for the request, or where required by CBP purposes, such as in determining proper estimated duties to be deposited or notification of increased duties in accordance with ยง 152.2.


(b) *Only for merchandise under Center director's jurisdiction.* The information will be given only in regard to merchandise to be appraised by, or under the jurisdiction of, the Center director who receives the request, and only with respect to merchandise for which there is presented evidence of a firm commitment or intent to import such merchandise into the United States.


(c) *Information by importer.* Each request must be accompanied by the latest information as to the values in question which the importer has or can reasonably obtain.


(d) *Information not binding.* Value information will be given by the Center director only with an understanding and agreement in each case that the information is in no sense an appraisement and is not binding upon the Center director's action when he appraises the merchandise.


(e) *No reply required after entry.* The Center director will not be required to reply to a written request for value information after a value for the merchandise has been declared on entry unless he has information indicating a probable appraised value different from such entered value.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93022, Dec. 20, 2016]




