# § 7.6   Adverse actions: Removal, suspension for more than 14 days, reduced in grade, reduced in pay or furloughed for 30 days or less.

(a) *Policy.* A GAO employee may be removed, suspended for more than 14 days, reduction in grade or pay, or furlough for 30 days or less for such cause as will promote the efficiency of GAO. Furloughed means placing an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay because of lack of work or funds or other nondisciplinary reasons. 


(b) *Employee entitlement.* An employee against whom an action is proposed under this section is entitled to— 


(1) At least 30 days' advance written notice, unless there is reasonable cause to believe the employee has committed a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed, stating the specific reasons for the proposed action, 


(2) A reasonable time to answer orally and in writing and to furnish affidavits and other documents in support of the answer. 


(3) Be represented by an attorney or other representative; and 


(4) A written decision and the specific reasons therefor at the earliest practicable date. 


(c) *Appeals.* After administrative remedies have been exhausted, an employee against whom an action is taken under this section is entitled to appeal to the GAO Personnel Appeals Board. 


(d) *Documentation.* Copies of the notice of proposed action, the answer of the employee if written, a summary thereof when made orally, the notice of decision and reasons therefor, and any order affecting an action covered by this section, together with any supporting material, shall be maintained by Personnel and shall be furnished to the GAO Personnel Appeals Board upon its request and to the employee affected upon the employee's request. 


(e) *Nonapplicability.* This section does not apply to— 


(1) Employees who are serving a trial period under an initial appointment or who has not completed 1 year of current continuous employment under other than a temporary appointment limited to 1 year or less. 


(2) A suspension or removal of an employee in the interests of national security. 


(3) A reduction in force. 


(4) The reduction in grade of a supervisor or manager who has not completed the probationary period. 


(5) A reduction in grade or removal for unacceptable performance under part 4. 


(6) An action ordered by the GAO Personnel Appeals Board. 




