# § 416.50   Condition for coverage—Patient rights.

The ASC must inform the patient or the patient's representative or surrogate of the patient's rights and must protect and promote the exercise of these rights, as set forth in this section. The ASC must also post the written notice of patient rights in a place or places within the ASC likely to be noticed by patients waiting for treatment or by the patient's representative or surrogate, if applicable.


(a) *Standard: Notice of Rights.* An ASC must, prior to the start of the surgical procedure, provide the patient, the patient's representative, or the patient's surrogate with verbal and written notice of the patient's rights in a language and manner that ensures the patient, the representative, or the surrogate understand all of the patient's rights as set forth in this section. The ASC's notice of rights must include the address and telephone number of the State agency to which patients may report complaints, as well as the Web site for the Office of the Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman.


(b) *Standard: Disclosure of physician financial interest or ownership.* The ASC must disclose, in accordance with Part 420 of this subchapter, and where applicable, provide a list of physicians who have financial interest or ownership in the ASC facility. Disclosure of information must be in writing.


(c) *Standard: Advance directives.* The ASC must comply with the following requirements:


(1) Provide the patient or, as appropriate, the patient's representative with written information concerning its policies on advance directives, including a description of applicable State health and safety laws and, if requested, official State advance directive forms.


(2) Inform the patient or, as appropriate, the patient's representative of the patient's right to make informed decisions regarding the patient's care.


(3) Document in a prominent part of the patient's current medical record, whether or not the individual has executed an advance directive.


(d) *Standard: Submission and investigation of grievances.* The ASC must establish a grievance procedure for documenting the existence, submission, investigation, and disposition of a patient's written or verbal grievance to the ASC. The following criteria must be met:


(1) All alleged violations/grievances relating, but not limited to, mistreatment, neglect, verbal, mental, sexual, or physical abuse, must be fully documented.


(2) All allegations must be immediately reported to a person in authority in the ASC.


(3) Only substantiated allegations must be reported to the State authority or the local authority, or both.


(4) The grievance process must specify timeframes for review of the grievance and the provisions of a response.


(5) The ASC, in responding to the grievance, must investigate all grievances made by a patient, the patient's representative, or the patient's surrogate regarding treatment or care that is (or fails to be) furnished.


(6) The ASC must document how the grievance was addressed, as well as provide the patient, the patient's representative, or the patient's surrogate with written notice of its decision. The decision must contain the name of an ASC contact person, the steps taken to investigate the grievance, the result of the grievance process and the date the grievance process was completed.


(e) *Standard: Exercise of rights and respect for property and person.* (1) The patient has the right to the following:


(i) Be free from any act of discrimination or reprisal.


(ii) Voice grievances regarding treatment or care that is (or fails to be) provided.


(iii) Be fully informed about a treatment or procedure and the expected outcome before it is performed.


(2) If a patient is adjudged incompetent under applicable State laws by a court of proper jurisdiction, the rights of the patient are exercised by the person appointed under State law to act on the patient's behalf.


(3) If a State court has not adjudged a patient incompetent, any legal representative or surrogate designated by the patient in accordance with State law may exercise the patient's rights to the extent allowed by State law.


(f) *Standard: Privacy and safety.* The patient has the right to—


(1) Personal privacy.


(2) Receive care in a safe setting.


(3) Be free from all forms of abuse or harassment.


(g) *Standard: Confidentiality of clinical records.* The ASC must comply with the Department's rules for the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, as specified at 45 CFR parts 160 and 164.



---

[N] [73 FR 68812, Nov. 18, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 65889, Oct. 24, 2011]




