# § 127.1317   Declaration of Inspection.

(a) Each person in charge of transfer for the facility must ensure that no person transfers LHG to or from a vessel until a Declaration of Inspection that meets paragraph (c) of this section is executed and signed by both the person in charge aboard the vessel and the person in charge for the facility.


(b) No person in charge of transfer for the facility may sign the Declaration unless that person has fulfilled the requirements of § 127.1315 and has indicated fulfillment of each requirement by writing his or her initials in the appropriate space on the Declaration.


(c) Each Declaration must contain—


(1) The name of the vessel and that of the facility;


(2) The date and time that the transfer begins;


(3) A list of the requirements in § 127.1315 with the initials of both the person in charge aboard the vessel and the person in charge for the facility after each requirement, indicating the fulfillment of the requirement;


(4) The signatures of both the person in charge aboard the vessel and the person in charge for the facility, and the date and time of signing, indicating that they are both ready to begin transfer; and


(5) The signature of each relief person in charge and the date and time of each relief. 


(d) The person in charge of transfer for the facility must give one signed copy of the Declaration to the person in charge of transfer aboard the vessel and retain the other.


(e) Each operator of a facility must retain a signed copy of the Declaration at the facility for 30 days after the transfer.



---

[N] [CGD 88-049, 60 FR 39796, Aug. 3, 1995, as amended by USCG-2019-0444, 87 FR 5691, Feb. 2, 2022]










