# ยง 152.21   Premiums and cost-sharing.

(a) *Limitation on enrollee premiums.* (1) The premiums charged under the PCIP may not exceed 100 percent of the premium for the applicable standard risk rate that would apply to the coverage offered in the State or States. The PCIP shall determine a standard risk rate by considering the premium rates charged for similar benefits and cost-sharing by other insurers offering health insurance coverage to individuals in the applicable State or States. The standard risk rate shall be established using reasonable actuarial techniques, that are approved by the Secretary, and that reflect anticipated experience and expenses. A PCIP may not use other methods of determining the standard rate, except with the approval of the Secretary.


(2) Premiums charged to enrollees in the PCIP may vary on the basis of age by a factor not greater than 4 to 1.


(b) *Limitation on enrollee costs.* (1) The PCIP's average share of the total allowed costs of the PCIP benefits must be at least 65 percent of such costs.


(2) The out-of-pocket limit of coverage for cost-sharing for covered services under the PCIP may not be greater than the applicable amount described in section 223(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue code of 1986 for the year involved. If the plan uses a network of providers, this limit may be applied only for in-network providers, consistent with the terms of PCIP benefit package.


(c) *Prohibition on balance billing in the PCIP administered by HHS.* A facility or provider that accepts payment under ยง 152.35(c)(2) for a covered service furnished to an enrollee may not bill the enrollee for an amount greater than the cost-sharing amount for the covered service calculated by the PCIP.



---

[N] [75 FR 45029, July 30, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 30226, May 22, 2013]




