# § 305.12   Ranges of comparability on the required labels.

(a) *Range of estimated annual energy costs or energy efficiency ratings.* The range of estimated annual operating costs or energy efficiency ratings for each covered product (except televisions, ceiling fans, fluorescent lamp ballasts, lamps, metal halide lamp fixtures, showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals) shall be taken from the appropriate appendix to this part in effect at the time the labels are affixed to the product. The Commission shall publish revised ranges in the _Federal Register_ in 2027. When the ranges are revised, all information disseminated after 90 days following the publication of the revision shall conform to the revised ranges. Products that have been labeled prior to the effective date of a modification under this section need not be relabeled.


(b) *Representative average unit energy cost.* The Representative Average Unit Energy Cost to be used on labels as required by §§ 305.14 through 305.19 and disclosures as required by § 305.27 are listed in appendices K1 and K2 to this part. The Commission shall publish revised Representative Average Unit Energy Cost figures in the _Federal Register_ in 2027. When the cost figures are revised, all information disseminated after 90 days following the publication of the revision shall conform to the new cost figure.


(c) *Operating costs or efficiency ratings outside current range.* When the estimated annual operating cost or energy efficiency rating of a given model of a product covered by this section falls outside the limits of the current range for that product, which could result from the introduction of a new or changed model, the manufacturer shall:


(1) Omit placement of such product on the scale appearing on the label, and


(2) Add one of the two sentences below, as appropriate, in the space just below the scale on the label, as follows:


(3) For refrigerator and refrigerator-freezer labels:


(i) If the model's energy cost falls outside of either or both ranges on the label, include the language in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(ii) If the model's energy cost only falls outside of the range for models with similar features, but is within the range for all models, include the product on the scale and place a triangle below the dollar value.


(iii) If the model's energy cost falls outside of both ranges of comparability, omit the triangle beneath the yearly operating cost value.



---

[N] [72 FR 49967, Aug. 29, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 63067, Oct. 23, 2008; 76 FR 1050, Jan. 6, 2011; 78 FR 43981, July 23, 2013; 81 FR 7202, Feb. 11, 2016; 83 FR 7596, Feb. 22, 2018. Redesignated at 84 FR 58029, Oct. 30, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 58032, Oct. 30, 2019; 87 FR 61467, Oct. 12, 2022]






