# § 1209.15   Filing of papers.

(a) *Filing.* All pleadings, motions, memoranda, and any other submissions or papers required to be filed in the proceeding shall be addressed to the presiding officer and filed with FHFA, 400 7th Street SW., Eighth Floor, Washington, DC 20219, in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Manner of filing.* Unless otherwise specified by the Director or the presiding officer, filing shall be accomplished by:


(1) *Overnight delivery.* Overnight U.S. Postal Service delivery or delivery by a reliable commercial delivery service for same day or overnight delivery to the address stated above; or


(2) *U.S. Mail.* First class, registered, or certified mail via the U.S. Postal Service; and


(3) *Electronic media.* Transmission by electronic media shall be required by and upon any conditions specified by the Director or the presiding officer. FHFA shall provide a designated site for the electronic filing of all papers in a proceeding in accordance with any conditions specified by the presiding officer. All papers filed by electronic media shall be filed concurrently in a manner set out above and in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Formal requirements as to papers filed*—(1) *Form.* To be filed, all papers must set forth the name, address, telephone number, and electronic mail address of the representative or party seeking to make the filing. Additionally, all such papers must be accompanied by a certification setting forth when and how service has been made on all other parties. All papers filed must be double-spaced on 8
1/2 × 11-inch paper and must be clear, legible, and formatted as required by paragraph (c)(5) of this section.


(2) *Signature.* All papers filed must be dated and signed as provided in § 1209.13.


(3) *Caption.* All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title page, the FHFA caption, title and docket number of the proceeding, the name of the filing party, and the subject of the particular paper.


(4) *Number of copies.* Unless otherwise specified by the Director or the presiding officer, an original and one copy of all pleadings, motions and memoranda, or other such papers shall be filed, except that only one copy of transcripts of testimony and exhibits shall be filed.


(5) *Content format.* All papers filed shall be formatted in such program(s) (*e.g.,* MS WORD _©_, MS Excel _©_, or WordPerfect _©_) as the presiding officer or Director shall specify.



---

[N] [76 FR 53607, Aug. 26, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 80233, Dec. 24, 2015]




