# § 1203.6   Labeling and instructions.

(a) *Labeling.* Each helmet shall be marked with durable labeling so that the following information is legible and easily visible to the user:


(1) Model designation.


(2) A warning to the user that no helmet can protect against all possible impacts and that serious injury or death could occur.


(3) A warning on both the helmet and the packaging that for maximum protection the helmet must be fitted and attached properly to the wearer's head in accordance with the manufacturer's fitting instructions.


(4) A warning to the user that the helmet may, after receiving an impact, be damaged to the point that it is no longer adequate to protect the head against further impacts, and that this damage may not be visible to the user. This label shall also state that a helmet that has sustained an impact should be returned to the manufacturer for inspection, or be destroyed and replaced.


(5) A warning to the user that the helmet can be damaged by contact with common substances (for example, certain solvents [ammonia], cleaners [bleach], etc.), and that this damage may not be visible to the user. This label shall state in generic terms some recommended cleaning agents and procedures (for example, wipe with mild soap and water), list the most common substances that damage the helmet, warn against contacting the helmet with these substances, and refer users to the instruction manual for more specific care and cleaning information.


(6) *Signal word.* The labels required by paragraphs (a) (2) through (5) of this section shall include the signal word “WARNING” at the beginning of each statement, unless two or more of the statements appear together on the same label. In that case, the signal word need only appear once, at the beginning of the warnings. The signal word “WARNING” shall be in all capital letters, bold print, and a type size equal to or greater than the other text on the label.


(b) *Instructions.* Each helmet shall have fitting and positioning instructions, including a graphic representation of proper positioning.




