# § 721.285   Acetamide, 

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified as acetamide, *N*-[4-(pentyloxy)phenyl]- (PMN P-92-31), acetamide, *N*-[2-nitro-4-(pentyloxy)phenyl]- (PMN P-92-32), and acetamide, *N*-[2-amino-4-(pentyloxy)phenyl]- (PMN P-92-33) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: (i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(h). 


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 90 ppb for PMNs P-92-31 and P-92-32, and N = 30 ppb for P-92-33). When calculating the surface water concentrations according to the instructions in § 721.90(a)(4), the statement that the amount of the substance that will be released will be calculated before the substance enters control technology does not apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the substance will be treated before release, then the amount of the substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 25 percent removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment. 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 51702, Oct. 4, 1993]




