# § 231.17   Specifications common to all steam locomotives.

(a) *Hand brakes.* (1) Hand brakes will not be required on locomotives nor on tenders when attached to locomotives.


(2) If tenders are detached from locomotives and used in special service, they shall be equipped with efficient hand brakes.


(b) *Running boards*—(1) *Number.* Two.


(2) *Dimensions.* Not less than 10 inches wide. If of wood, not less than 1
1/2 inches in thickness; if of metal, not less than three-sixteenths of an inch, properly supported.


(3) *Location.* One on each side of boiler extending from cab to front end near pilot-beam. (Running boards may be in sections. Flat-top steamchests may form section of running board.)


(4) *Manner of application.* (i) Running boards shall be securely fastened with bolts, rivets, or studs.


(ii) Locomotives having Wootten type boilers with cab located on top of boiler more than 12 inches forward from boiler head shall have suitable running boards running from cab to rear of locomotive, with handrailings not less than 20 nor more than 48 inches above outside edge of running boards, securely fastened with bolts, rivets, or studs.


(c) *Handrails*—(1) *Number.* Two or more.


(2) *Dimensions.* Not less than 1 inch in diameter, wrought iron or steel.


(3) *Location.* One on each side of boiler extending from near cab to near front end of boiler, and extending across front end of boiler, not less than 24 nor more than 66 inches above running board.


(4) *Manner of application.* Handrails shall be securely fastened to boiler.


(d) *Tenders of Vanderbilt type.* (1) Tenders known as the Vanderbilt type shall be equipped with running boards; one on each side of tender not less than 10 inches in width and one on top of tender not less than 48 inches in width, extending from coal space to rear of tender.


(2) There shall be a handrail on each side of top running board, extending from coal space to rear of tank, not less than 1 inch in diameter and not less than 20 inches in height above running board from coal space to manhole.


(3) There shall be a handrail extending from coal space to within 12 inches of rear of tank, attached to each side of tank above side running board not less than 30 nor more than 66 inches above running board.


(4) There shall be one vertical end handhold on each side of Vanderbilt type of tender, located within 8 inches of rear of tank extending from within 8 inches of top of end sill to within 8 inches of side handrail. Post supporting rear end of side running board, if not more than 2 inches in diameter and properly located, may form section of handhold.


(5) An additional horizontal end handhold shall be applied on rear end of all Vanderbilt type of tenders which are not equipped with vestibules. Handhold to be located not less than 30 nor more than 66 inches above top of end sill. Clear length of handhold to be not less than 48 inches.


(6) Ladders shall be applied at forward ends of side running boards.


(e) *Handrails and steps for headlights.* (1) Locomotives having headlights which can not be safely and conveniently reached from pilot-beam or steam chests shall be equipped with secure handrails and steps suitable for the use of men in getting to and from such headlights.


(2) A suitable metal end or side ladder shall be applied to all tanks more than 48 inches in height, measured from the top of end sill, and securely fastened with bolts or rivets.


(f) *Couplers.* Locomotives shall be equipped with automatic couplers at rear of tender and front of locomotive.




