# ยง 386.47   Use of deposition at hearings.

(a) *Generally.* At the hearing, any part or all of a deposition, so far as admissible under the rules of evidence, may be used against any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had due notice thereof in accordance with any one of the following provisions:


(1) Any deposition may be used by any party for the purpose of contradicting or impeaching the testimony of the deponent as a witness.


(2) The deposition of expert witnesses, particularly the deposition of physicians, may be used by any party for any purpose, unless the Agency Decisionmaker or administrative law judge rules that such use would be unfair or a violation of due process.


(3) The deposition of a party or of anyone who at the time of taking the deposition was an officer, director, or duly authorized agent of a public or private organization, partnership, or association which is a party, may be used by any other party for any purpose.


(4) The deposition of a witness, whether or not a party, may be used by any party for any purpose if the presiding officer finds:


(i) That the witness is dead; or


(ii) That the witness is out of the United States or more than 100 miles from the place of hearing unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the deposition; or


(iii) That the witness is unable to attend to testify because of age, sickness, infirmity, or imprisonment; or


(iv) That the party offering the deposition has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or


(v) Upon application and notice, that such exceptional circumstances exist as to make it desirable, in the interest of justice and with due regard to the importance of presenting the testimony of witnesses orally in open hearing, to allow the deposition to be used.


(5) If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, any other party may require him or her to introduce all of it which is relevant to the part introduced, and any party may introduce any other parts.


(b) *Objections to admissibility.* Except as provided in this paragraph, objection may be made at the hearing to receiving in evidence any deposition or part thereof for any reason which would require the exclusion of the evidence if the witness were then present and testifying.


(1) Objections to the competency of a witness or to the competency, relevancy or materiality of testimony are not waived by failure to make them before or during the taking of the deposition, unless the ground of the objection is one which might have been obviated or removed if presented at that time.


(2) Errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form of the questions or answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of parties and errors of any kind which might be obviated, removed, or cured if promptly presented, are waived unless reasonable objection thereto is made at the taking of the deposition.


(3) Objections to the form or written interrogatories are waived unless served in writing upon the party propounding them.


(c) *Effect of taking using depositions.* A party shall not be deemed to make a person his or her own witness for any purpose by taking his or her deposition. The introduction in evidence of the deposition or any part thereof for any purpose other than that of contradicting or impeaching the deponent makes the deponent the witness of the party introducing the deposition, but this shall not apply to the use by any other party of a deposition as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. At the hearing, any party may rebut any relevant evidence contained in a deposition whether introduced by him or her or by any other party.




