# ยง 870.7   Monthly Consumption Report.

(a) Eligible domestic users making applications for payment under this part must submit a Monthly Consumption Report to AMS. The Monthly Consumption Report must include the following:


(1) Documentation of eligible upland cotton inventory consumed by the eligible domestic user;


(2) The eligible domestic user's calculation of financial assistance claimed for payment under the program; and


(3) The eligible domestic user's signed certification as to the accuracy of the Monthly Consumption Report.


(b) The eligible domestic user must report to AMS the activity pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section for each month beginning on the effective date of the Agreement.


(1) If the eligible domestic user's facility is temporarily closed for any reason, the eligible domestic user must notify AMS and submit a Monthly Consumption Report prior to the end of the month following the plant closure.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the domestic user must submit Monthly Consumption Reports every month, even when no eligible upland cotton has been consumed.


(c) Monthly Consumption Reports not submitted by the last business day of the following month will be considered late by AMS and are ineligible for payment.


(d) AMS will not process for payment Monthly Consumption Reports or any other required documents from an eligible domestic user that contain errors or omissions.


(e) Any transaction between two eligible domestic users involving the transfer of eligible upland cotton bales must be reported to AMS by both eligible domestic users with a statement of eligible claim certification as defined in ยง 870.2.






