# ยง 410.302   Responsibilities of the head of an agency.

(a) *Specific responsibilities.* (1) The head of each agency must prescribe procedures as are necessary to ensure that the selection of employees for training is made without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), national origin, age (as defined by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended), disability, genetic information (including family medical history), marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, labor organization affiliation or nonaffiliation, status as parent, or any other non-merit-based factor, unless specifically designated by statute as a factor that must be taken into consideration when awarding such benefits, or retaliation for exercising rights with respect to the categories enumerated above, where retaliation rights are available, and with proper regard for their privacy and constitutional rights as provided by merit system principles set forth in 5 U.S.C. 2301(b)(2).


(2) The head of each agency shall prescribe procedures as are necessary to ensure that the training facility and curriculum are accessible to employees with disabilities.


(3) The head of each agency shall not allow training in a facility that discriminates in the admission or treatment of students.


(b)(1) *Training of Presidential appointees.* The Office of Personnel Management delegates to the head of each agency authority to authorize training for officials appointed by the President. In exercising this authority, the head of an agency must ensure that the training is in compliance with chapter 41 of title 5, United States Code, and with this part. This authority may not be delegated to a subordinate.


(2) *Records.* When exercising this delegation of authority, the head of an agency must maintain records that include:


(i) The name and position title of the official;


(ii) A description of the training, its location, vendor, cost, and duration; and


(iii) A statement justifying the training and describing how the official will apply it during his or her term of office.


(3) *Review of delegation.* Exercise of this authority is subject to U.S. Office of Personnel Management review.


(c) *Training for the head of an agency.* Since self-review constitutes a conflict of interest, heads of agencies must submit their own requests for training to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management for approval.


(d) The head of the agency shall establish the form and manner of maintaining agency records related to training plans, expenditures, and activities.


(e) The head of the agency shall establish written procedures which cover the minimum requirements for continued service agreements. (See also 5 CFR 410.310.)


(f) The head of each agency shall prescribe procedures, as authorized by section 402 of Executive Order No. 11348, for obtaining U.S. Department of State advice before assigning an employee who is stationed within the continental limits of the United States to training outside the continental United States that is provided by a foreign government, international organization, or instrumentality of either. 



---

[N] [61 FR 66193, Dec. 17, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 43867, Aug. 17, 1998; 79 FR 43923, July 29, 2014]




