# ยง 25.66   Organizational documents.

The supporting information required by paragraph (a)(4) of ยง 25.62 includes, as applicable, the following:


(a) *Corporate documents.* (1) Corporate charter or a certificate of corporate existence or incorporation;


(2) List of directors and officers, showing their names and addresses;


(3) Extracts or digests of minutes of meetings of board of directors, authorizing certain individuals to sign for the corporation; and


(4) Statement showing the number of shares of stock or other evidence of ownership, authorized and outstanding, and the voting rights of the respective owners or holders.


(b) *Articles of partnership.* Copy of the articles of partnership or association, if any, or certificate of partnership or association if required to be filed by any State, county, or municipality.


(c) *Statement of interest.* (1) Names and addresses of all persons having 10 percent or more stock in the corporation, or other legal entity, and the nature and amount of the stockholding or other interest of each, whether the interest appears in the name of the interested party or in the name of another person. If a corporation is wholly owned or controlled by another corporation, those persons of the parent corporation who meet the above standards are considered to be the persons interested in the business of the subsidiary, and the names thereof need be furnished only upon request of the appropriate TTB officer; or


(2) In the case of an individual owner or partnership, the name and address of each person holding an interest in the brewery, whether the interest appears in the name of the interested party or in the name of another for that person.


(d) *Availability of additional corporate documents.* The originals of documents required to be submitted under this section, and additional documents such as the articles of incorporation, bylaws, and State certificates authorizing the brewer to operate in the State where located (if other than the State in which the brewery is incorporated) shall be made available to any appropriate TTB officer upon request. In the case of multiplant brewers, these documents may be made available at the brewer's home brewery. Each brewer's notice filed by multiplant brewers will state the location where these corporate documents may be inspected.


