# § 1610.8   Reporting results.

(a) The reported result shall be the classification before or after refurbishing, whichever is the more severe; and based on this result, the textile shall be placed in the proper final classification as described in § 1610.4.


(b) *Test result codes.* The following are definitions for the test result codes, which shall be used for recording flammability results for each specimen that is burned.


(1) For Plain Surface Textile Fabrics:


(i) DNI Did not ignite.


(ii) IBE Ignited, but extinguished.


(iii) _._sec. Actual burn time measured and recorded by the timing device.


(2) For Raised Surface Textile Fabrics:


(i) _._SFBB Time in seconds, surface flash base burn starting at places other than the point of impingement as a result of surface flash.


(ii) _._SFBB poi Time in seconds, surface flash base burn starting at the point of impingement.


(iii) _._SFBB poi* Time in seconds, surface flash base burn possibly starting at the point of impingement. The asterisk is accompanied by the following statement: “Unable to make absolute determination as to source of base burns.” This statement is added to the result of any specimen if there is a question as to origin of the base burn.


(iv) _._SF only Time in seconds, surface flash only. No damage to the base fabric.


(v) SF poi Surface flash, at the point of impingement only (equivalent to “did not ignite” for plain surfaces).


(vi) SF uc Surface flash, under the stop thread, but does not break the stop thread.


(vii) SF pw Surface flash, part way. No time shown because the surface flash did not reach the stop thread.





---

[N] [73 FR 15640, Mar. 25, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 73233, Oct. 25, 2023]










