# ยง 152.20   Exemptions for pesticides adequately regulated by another Federal agency.

The pesticides or classes of pesticide listed in this section are exempt from all requirements of FIFRA. The Agency has determined, in accordance with FIFRA sec. 25(b)(1), that they are adequately regulated by another Federal agency.


(a) *Certain biological control agents.* (1) Except as provided by paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, all biological control agents are exempt from FIFRA requirements.


(2) If the Agency determines that an individual biological control agent or class of biological control agents is no longer adequately regulated by another Federal agency, and that it should not otherwise be exempted from the requirements of FIFRA, the Agency will revoke this exemption by amending paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) The following biological control agents are not exempt from FIFRA requirements:


(i) A eucaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, protozoa, algae and fungi;


(ii) A procaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria; or


(iii) A parasitically-replicating microscopic element, including, but not limited to, viruses.


(4) All living plants intended for use as biological control agents are exempt from the requirements of FIFRA. However, plant-incorporated protectants are not exempt pursuant to this section. Regulations, including exemptions, for plant-incorporated protectants are addressed in part 174 of this chapter.


(b) *Non-liquid chemical sterilants.* A non-liquid chemical sterilant, except ethylene oxide, that meets the criteria of ยง 152.6(a)(2) with respect to its claims and ยง 152.6(a)(3) with respect to its use sites is exempted from regulation under FIFRA.



---

[N] [53 FR 15977, May 4, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001; 66 FR 64764, Dec. 14, 2001; 72 FR 61027, Oct. 26, 2007]




