# § 309.130   How will Tribal IV-D programs be funded and what forms are required?

(a) *General mechanism.* (1) Tribes and Tribal organizations with approved Tribal plans under title IV-D will receive Federal grant funds in an amount equal to the percentage specified in paragraph (c) of this section of the total amount of approved and allowable expenditures under the plan for the administration of the Tribal child support enforcement program.


(2) Tribes and Tribal organizations eligible for grants of less than $1 million per 12-month funding period will receive a single annual award. Tribes and Tribal organizations eligible for grants of $1 million or more per 12-month funding period will receive four equal quarterly awards.


(b) *Financial Form Submittal Requirements.* Tribes and Tribal organizations receiving Federal funding under this part are required to submit the following financial forms, and such other forms as the Secretary may designate, to OCSE:


(1) Standard Form (SF) 424, “Application for Federal Assistance,” to be submitted with the initial grant application for funding under § 309.65(a) and (b) (60 days prior to the start of the funding period);


(2) SF 424A, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs,” to be submitted annually, no later than August 1 (60 days prior to the start of the funding period) in accordance with § 309.15(a)(2) of this part. With each submission, the following information must be included:


(i) A quarter-by-quarter estimate of expenditures for the funding period; and


(ii) Notification of whether the Tribe or Tribal organization is requesting funds for indirect costs and an election of a method to calculate estimated indirect costs; and


(iii) A narrative justification for each cost category on the form.




(3) SF 425, “Federal Financial Report,” to be submitted quarterly within 30 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of the funding period and within 30 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of the liquidation period. The final report for each period is due within 90 days after the end of the fourth quarter of both the funding and the liquidation period; and


(4) Form OCSE-34, “Child Support Enforcement Program Quarterly Collection Report” must be submitted no later than 45 days following the end of each fiscal quarter. No revisions or adjustments of the financial reports submitted for any quarter of the fiscal year will be accepted by OCSE later than December 31, which is 3 months after the end of the fiscal year.






(c) *Federal share of program expenditures.* (1) During the period of start-up funding specified in § 309.16, a Tribe or Tribal organization will receive Federal grant funds equal to 100 percent of approved and allowable expenditures made during that period. Federal start-up funds are limited to a total of $500,000.


(2) Beginning with the first day of the first quarter of the funding grant specified under § 309.135(a)(2), a Tribe or Tribal organization will receive Federal grant funds equal to 100 percent of the total amount of approved and allowable expenditures made during that period and thereafter for the administration of the Tribal child support enforcement program.


(3) A Tribe or Tribal organization will receive Federal grant funds equal to 100 percent of pre-approved costs of installing the Model Tribal IV-D System.


(d) *Increase in approved budget.* (1) A Tribe or Tribal organization may request an increase in the approved amount of its current budget by submitting a revised SF 424A to ACF and explaining why it needs the additional funds. The Tribe or Tribal organization should submit this request at least 60 days before additional funds are needed, to allow the Secretary adequate time to review the estimates and issue a revised grant award, if appropriate.


(2) If the change in Tribal IV-D budget estimate results from a change in the Tribal IV-D plan, the Tribe or Tribal organization must submit a plan amendment in accordance with § 309.35(e), a revised SF 424, and a revised SF 424A with its request for additional funding. The effective date of a plan amendment may not be earlier than the first day of the fiscal quarter in which an approvable plan is submitted in accordance with § 309.35(f). The Secretary must approve the plan amendment before approving any additional funding.




(e) *Obtaining Federal funds.* Tribes and Tribal organizations will obtain Federal funds on a draw down basis from the Department's Payment Management System on a letter of credit system for payment of advances of Federal funds.


(f) *Grant administration requirements.* The provisions of part 75 of this title, establishing uniform administrative requirements and cost principles, shall apply to all grants made to Tribes and Tribal organizations under this part.



---

[N] [69 FR 16672, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 8520, Feb. 25, 2010; 81 FR 3021, Jan. 20, 2016; 81 FR 93569, Dec. 20, 2016; 89 FR 9793, Feb. 12, 2024]




