# § 81.85   Public disclosure of final orders and agreements.

(a) *Disclosure.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary shall make available to the public final orders; written agreements and statements; and modifications and terminations of those orders, agreements, and statements, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 4586(a) and the implementing regulations in this subpart G. The retention of records of these orders, agreements, and statements, and their modifications and terminations, are governed by 12 U.S.C. 4586(e). 


(b) *Exceptions to disclosure.* Exceptions to disclosure will be determined in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4586 (c), (d), and (f) and paragraph (c) of this section. 


(c) *Filing documents under seal*—(1) *Request by party.* Upon the denial by the ALJ of a motion for a protective order, any party may request the Secretary to file any document or part of a document under seal if the party believes that disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. Any other party may file with the Secretary a reply to such a request within 5 working days after a request is made or some other time to be determined by the Secretary. Such requests and replies are governed by § 26.38 of this title. 


(2) *Effect of request.* A document or part of a document that is the subject of a timely request to the Secretary to file under seal will not be disclosed under this section until the Secretary has advised the parties and the ALJ, in writing, of the Secretary's decision on whether the document or part of a document should be filed under seal. The ALJ shall take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts of documents, including closing portions of the hearing to the public. 


(3) *Time of request.* Failure to file with the Secretary a timely request or a reply is deemed a waiver of any objection regarding the decision on whether a document is to be disclosed. A party must make its request to file a document under seal at least 10 days before the commencement of the hearing. A request may be filed at any other time before or during the course of the hearing, but the requesting party's obligation to produce the document or parts of the document will not be affected by the party's pending request to the Secretary, unless the Secretary expressly directs the ALJ to treat the document as protected from disclosure until the Secretary makes a final written decision on whether the document should be filed under seal. If the Secretary's direction to the ALJ is made orally, that direction must be reduced to writing and filed with the ALJ within 3 working days of the making of the oral order or the document will then be subject to disclosure pending the Secretary's final written decision on disclosure. 



---

[N] [60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50219 Sept. 24, 1996]




