# ยง 14.2   Applicability.

(a) Part 14 applies only to payments received under the programs listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section. Payments received under programs not listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section, are not considered eligible for exclusion from gross income under this part.


(1) The rural clean water program authorized by section 208(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1288(j)).


(2) The rural abandoned mine program authorized by section 406 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1236).


(3) The water bank program authorized by the Water Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301 *et seq.*).


(4) The emergency conservation measures program authorized by title IV of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 *et seq.*).


(5) The agricultural conservation program authorized by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590a).


(6) The Great Plains conservation program authorized by section 16 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)).


(7) The resource conservation and development program authorized by the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act and by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (7 U.S.C. 1010; 16 U.S.C. 590a *et seq.).*

(8) The forestry incentives program authorized by section 4 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103).


(9) Any small watershed program administered by the Secretary of Agriculture that is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate to be substantially similar to the type of programs described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. 


(10) Any program of a State, a possession of the United States, a political subdivision of a State or a possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or a combination of any of the foregoing under which payments are made primarily for the purpose of conserving soil and water resources, protecting or restoring the environment, improving forests, or providing a habitat for wildlife. 


(b) The criteria set forth in ยง 14.5 for determining the primary purpose of payments with respect to their eligibility for exclusion from gross income shall also be used to determine the applicability of this part to payments received under non-Federal programs as provided in ยง 14.2(a)(10). 




