# ยง 12.21   Voluntary dismissal.

(a) At any time after the Director of the Office of Proceedings has served notification to the parties pursuant to ยง 12.15 of the Director's determination to forward the complaint to the respondent for a response, either the complainant or the respondent may obtain dismissal of the complaint (or the proceeding, if one has commenced) by filing a stipulation of dismissal, duly executed by all of the complainants and each respondent against whom the complaint has been forwarded (or added as a party in the course of a proceeding); *provided however,* that if the stipulation is filed after any respondent has filed an answer, the terms of the stipulation shall include a dismissal of any counterclaims in the answer.


(b) A dismissal of a complaint pursuant to this paragraph shall be with prejudice to complainant's right to re-file a claim in reparations based upon the same set of facts as alleged in the dismissed complaint. Unless otherwise stated in the stipulation, a dismissal ordered pursuant to this paragraph shall be regarded by the Commission as without prejudice to the parties' right to seek redress in such alternative forums as may be available for adjudication of their claims.


(c) Upon receiving a written stipulation of dismissal which satisfies the requirements of this rule, the official before whom the matter or proceeding is pending shall issue an order of dismissal, and serve a copy thereof upon each of the parties.


(d) This rule shall be applicable at all stages of a reparation proceeding.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64353, Nov. 18, 2021]




