# § 141.400   General requirements and applicability.

(a) *Scope of this subpart.* The requirements of this subpart S constitute National Primary Drinking Water Regulations.


(b) *Applicability.* This subpart applies to all public water systems that use ground water except that it does not apply to public water systems that combine all of their ground water with surface water or with ground water under the direct influence of surface water prior to treatment under subpart H. For the purposes of this subpart, “ground water system” is defined as any public water system meeting this applicability statement, including consecutive systems receiving finished ground water.


(c) *General requirements.* Systems subject to this subpart must comply with the following requirements:


(1) Sanitary survey information requirements for all ground water systems as described in § 141.401.


(2) Microbial source water monitoring requirements for ground water systems that do not treat all of their ground water to at least 99.99 percent (4-log) treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer as described in § 141.402.


(3) Treatment technique requirements, described in § 141.403, that apply to ground water systems that have fecally contaminated source waters, as determined by source water monitoring conducted under § 141.402, or that have significant deficiencies that are identified by the State or that are identified by EPA under SDWA section 1445. A ground water system with fecally contaminated source water or with significant deficiencies subject to the treatment technique requirements of this subpart must implement one or more of the following corrective action options: correct all significant deficiencies; provide an alternate source of water; eliminate the source of contamination; or provide treatment that reliably achieves at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer.


(4) Ground water systems that provide at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer are required to conduct compliance monitoring to demonstrate treatment effectiveness, as described in § 141.403(b).


(5) If requested by the State, ground water systems must provide the State with any existing information that will enable the State to perform a hydrogeologic sensitivity assessment. For the purposes of this subpart, “hydrogeologic sensitivity assessment” is a determination of whether ground water systems obtain water from hydrogeologically sensitive settings.


(d) *Compliance date.* Ground water systems must comply, unless otherwise noted, with the requirements of this subpart beginning December 1, 2009. 




