# ยง 35.507   Work plans.

(a) *Bases for negotiating work plans.* The work plan is negotiated between the applicant and the Regional Administrator and reflects consideration of national, regional, and Tribal environmental and programmatic needs and priorities. 


(1) *Negotiation considerations.* In negotiating the work plan, the Regional Administrator and applicant will consider such factors as national program guidance; any regional supplemental guidance; goals, objectives, and priorities proposed by the applicant; other jointly identified needs or priorities; and the planning target. 


(2) *National program guidance.* If an applicant proposes a work plan that differs significantly from the goals and objectives, priorities, or performance measures in the national program guidance associated with the proposed work plan activities, the Regional Administrator must consult with the appropriate National Program Manager before agreeing to the work plan. 


(3) *Use of existing guidance.* An applicant should base the grant application on the national program guidance in place at the time the application is being prepared. 


(b) *Work plan requirements.* (1) The work plan is the basis for the management and evaluation of performance under the grant agreement. 


(2) An approvable work plan must specify: 


(i) The work plan components to be funded under the grant; 


(ii) The estimated work years and estimated funding amounts for each work plan component; 


(iii) The work plan commitments for each work plan component, and a time frame for their accomplishment; 


(iv) A performance evaluation process and reporting schedule in accordance with ยง 35.515 of this subpart; and 


(v) The roles and responsibilities of the recipient and EPA in carrying out the work plan commitments. 


(3) The work plan must be consistent with applicable federal statutes; regulations; circulars; executive orders; and delegations, approvals, or authorizations. 


(c) *Tribal Environmental Agreement as work plan.* An applicant may use a Tribal Environmental Agreement or a portion of the Tribal Environmental Agreement as the work plan or part of the work plan for an environmental program grant if the portion of the Tribal Environmental Agreement that is to serve as the grant work plan: 


(1) Is clearly identified as the grant work plan and distinguished from other portions of the Tribal Environmental Agreement; and 


(2) Meets the requirements in ยง 35.507(b). 




