# § 4280.36   Other laws that contain compliance requirements for these Programs.

(a) *Equal employment opportunity.* For all construction contracts and Grants in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60). The applicant is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.


(b) *Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.* Rural Development will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and 7 CFR part 15d, conducted by USDA. Rural Development will not discriminate against applicants on the bases of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); to the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from public assistance program; or to the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.


(c) *Civil rights compliance.* Recipients of Grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. This includes collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. These data must be available to conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR part 1901 subpart E, § 1901.204. Initial compliance reviews will be conducted with the Intermediary when Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement,” is signed. For each loan or Grant an Intermediary receives, a new Form RD 400-4 must be completed. Each Ultimate Recipient must go through the same pre-award compliance review process and must also sign Form RD 400-4. For loans and Grants, a pre-award review is required before loan or Grant approval or any disbursement of funds. For Intermediaries, a post-award compliance review is required 90 days after closing the loan or Grant. This review is not required for Ultimate Recipients. Subsequent compliance reviews will be conducted 3 years from the date the post-award compliance review is completed for Intermediaries and 3 years from the date the pre-award compliance review is completed for Ultimate Recipients. Where Grant funds are used for a Revolving Loan Fund, compliance reviews are required for the Intermediaries for as long as the Fund is in operation. For Ultimate Recipients, compliance reviews are conducted until the loan is repaid to the Fund.


(d) *Architectural barriers.* All facilities financed with Zero-Interest Loans that are open to the public or in which persons may be employed or reside must be designed, constructed, or altered to be readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons. Standards for these facilities must comply with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) and the “Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards”, (41 CFR part 101-19.6, Appendix A).


(e) *Uniform relocation assistance.* Relocations in connection with these Programs are subject to 49 CFR part 24 as referenced by 7 CFR part 21 except that the provisions in title III of the Uniform Act do not apply to these Programs.


(f) *Drug-free workplace.* Grants made under these Programs are subject to the requirements contained in 2 CFR part 421 which implements the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8101 *et seq.*). An Intermediary requesting a REDG Grant will be required to certify that it will establish and make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace program.


(g) *Debarment and suspension.* The requirements of 2 CFR part 180 and Departmental Regulations 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment, and Suspension are applicable to these Programs.


(h) *Intergovernmental review of Federal programs.* These Programs are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (3 CFR 1982 Comp., p. 197) and 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, which implements Executive Order 12372. Proposed Projects are subject to the State and local government review process contained in 2 CFR part 415, subpart C.


(i) *Restrictions on lobbying.* The restrictions and requirements imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352, and 2 CFR part 418, are applicable to these Programs.


(j) *Earthquake hazards.* These Programs are subject to the seismic requirements of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701-7706).


(k) *Environmental requirements.* Actions taken under this subpart, including the loans made from the revolving loan fund using Agency funds, must comply with 7 CFR part 1970. However, revolving loan funds derived from repayments by third parties are not considered Federal financial assistance for the purposes of 7 CFR part 1970.


(l) *Affirmative fair housing.* If applicable, the Intermediary will be required to comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3631).


(m) *Flood hazard insurance.* These Programs are subject to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended by 42 U.S.C. 4001-4129.


(n) *Audits.* These Programs are subject to 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, as codified in 2 CFR part 400.1.



---

[N] [72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11052, Mar. 2, 2016]




