# § 5.67   Name and address for domestically bottled distilled spirits that were bottled after importation.

(a) *General.* This section applies to distilled spirits that were bottled after importation. See § 5.68 for name and address requirements applicable to imported distilled spirits that were imported in a container. See 19 CFR parts 102 and 134 for U.S. Customs and Border Protection country of origin marking requirements.


(b) *Distilled spirits bottled after importation in the United States.* Distilled spirits bottled, without further blending, making, preparing, producing, manufacturing, or distilling activities after importation, must bear one of the following name and address statements:


(1) The name and address of the bottler, preceded by the words “bottled by,” “canned by,” “packed by,” or “filled by”;


(2) If the distilled spirits were bottled for the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported by and bottled (canned, packed, or filled) in the United States for” (or a similar appropriate phrase) followed by the name and address of the principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation;


(3) If the distilled spirits were bottled by the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported by and bottled (canned, packed, or filled) in the United States by” (or a similar appropriate phrase) followed by the name and address of the principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation.


(c) *Distilled spirits that were subject to blending or other production activities after importation.* Distilled spirits that, after importation in bulk, were blended, made, prepared, produced, manufactured or further distilled, may not bear an “imported by” statement on the label, but must instead be labeled in accordance with the rules set forth in § 5.66 for mandatory and optional labeling statements.


(d) *Optional statements.* In addition to the statements required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the label may also state the name and address of the principal place of business of the foreign producer.


(e) *Form of address.* (1) The address consists of the city and State where the operation occurred, or the city and State of the principal place of business of the person performing the operation. This information must be consistent with the information on the basic permit. Addresses may, but are not required to, include additional information such as street names, counties, zip codes, phone numbers, and website addresses.


(2) If the bottler or processor listed on the name and address statement is the actual operator of more than one distilled spirits plant engaged in bottling, distilling, or processing operations, as applicable, the label may state, immediately following the name of the bottler, the addresses of those other plants, in addition to the address of the plant at which the distilled spirits were bottled. In this situation, the address where the operation occurred must be indicated on the label or on the container by printing, coding, or other markings.


(3) The label may provide the address of the bottler's or processor's principal place of business, in lieu of the place where the bottling, distilling, or other operation occurred, provided that the address where the operation occurred is indicated on the label or on the container by printing, coding, or other markings.


(f) *Trade or operating names.* A trade name may be used if the trade name is listed on the basic permit or other qualifying documentation.




