# ยง 19.183   Rights of witnesses.

(a) *Right to be shown order.* Any person who is compelled or requested to furnish testimony, documentary evidence, or other information with respect to any matter under formal investigation must, on request, be shown the order initiating the investigation. These persons may not retain copies of the order without first receiving written approval of the OCC.


(b) *Right to counsel.* Any person who, in a formal investigation, is compelled to appear and testify, or who appears and testifies by request or permission of the OCC, may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel. The right to be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel means the right of a person testifying to have an attorney present at all times while testifying and to have the attorney:


(1) Advise the person before, during, and after the conclusion of testimony;


(2) Question the person, on the record, briefly at the conclusion of testimony for the purpose of clarifying any of the answers given; and


(3) Make summary notes during the testimony solely for use in representing the person.


(c) *Exclusion from proceedings.* Any person who has given or will give testimony and counsel representing the person may be excluded from the proceedings during the taking of testimony of any other person at the discretion of the OCC or the OCC's designated representatives. Neither attorney(s) for the institution(s) affiliated with the testifying person nor attorneys for any other interested persons have any right to be present during the testimony of any person not personally represented by such attorney.


(d) *Right to inspect testimony transcript.* Any person who is compelled to give testimony is entitled to inspect any transcript that has been made of the testimony but may not obtain a copy if the OCC or the OCC's designated representatives conducting the proceedings determine that the contents should not be disclosed.






