# ยง 513.314   Debarring official's decision.

(a) *No additional proceedings necessary.* In actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, the debarring official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the respondent. The decision shall be made within 45 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the respondent, unless the debarring official extends this period for good cause. 


(b) *Additional proceedings necessary.* (1) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The debarring official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the respondent and any other information in the administrative record. 


(2) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary and capricious or clearly erroneous. 


(3) The debarring official's decision shall be made after the conclusion of the proceedings with respect to disputed facts. 


(c)(1) *Standard of proof.* In any debarment action, the cause for debarment must be established by a preponderance of the evidence. Where the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard shall be deemed to have been met. 


(2) *Burden of proof.* The burden of proof is on the agency proposing debarment. 


(d) *Notice of debarring official's decision.* (1) If the debarring official decides to impose debarment, the respondent shall be given prompt notice: 


(i) Referring to the notice of proposed debarment; 


(ii) Specifying the reasons for debarment; 


(iii) Stating the period of debarment, including effective dates; and 


(iv) Advising that the debarment is effective for covered transactions throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee makes the determination referred to in ยง 513.215.


(2) If the debarring official decides not to impose debarment, the respondent shall be given prompt notice of that decision. A decision not to impose debarment shall be without prejudice to a subsequent imposition of debarment by any other agency. 




