# ยง 622.27   At-sea observer coverage.

(a) *Required coverage.* A vessel for which a Federal commercial vessel permit for Gulf reef fish or a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf reef fish has been issued must carry a NMFS-approved observer, if the vessel's trip is selected by the SRD for observer coverage. Vessel permit renewal is contingent upon compliance with this paragraph (a).


(b) *Notification to the SRD.* When observer coverage is required, an owner or operator must advise the SRD in writing not less than 5 days in advance of each trip of the following:


(1) Departure information (port, dock, date, and time).


(2) Expected landing information (port, dock, and date).


(c) *Observer accommodations and access.* An owner or operator of a vessel on which a NMFS-approved observer is embarked must:


(1) Provide accommodations and food that are equivalent to those provided to the crew.


(2) Allow the observer access to and use of the vessel's communications equipment and personnel upon request for the transmission and receipt of messages related to the observer's duties.


(3) Allow the observer access to and use of the vessel's navigation equipment and personnel upon request to determine the vessel's position.


(4) Allow the observer free and unobstructed access to the vessel's bridge, working decks, holding bins, weight scales, holds, and any other space used to hold, process, weigh, or store fish.


(5) Allow the observer to inspect and copy the vessel's log, communications logs, and any records associated with the catch and distribution of fish for that trip.




