# ยง 160.276-15   Production inspections, tests, and quality control of PFDs.

(a) *General.* Production tests and inspections must be conducted in accordance with ANSI/CAN/UL 9595 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 160.276-5) or an alternative follow-up procedure accepted by the Commandant. To maintain approval, the manufacturer must be in good standing under an approved follow-up procedure.


(b) *Manufacturer's inspection and tests.* Manufacturers of approved PFDs must maintain quality control of the materials used, manufacturing methods, and the finished product to meet the applicable requirements, and make sufficient inspections and tests of representative samples and components produced to maintain the quality of the finished product. Records of tests conducted by the manufacturer and records of materials, including affidavits by suppliers that applicable requirements are met, must be made available to the recognized laboratory inspector or to the Coast Guard marine inspector, or both, for review upon request.


(c) *Laboratory inspections and tests.* The laboratory inspector will conduct examinations, inspections, and tests for listed and labeled devices, as required by the recognized laboratory, at the place of manufacture or other location at the option of the laboratory.


(d) *Test facilities.* The laboratory inspector, or the Coast Guard marine inspector assigned by the Commander of the District in which the factory is located, or both, must be admitted to any place in the factory where work is being done on listed and labeled products. Either or both inspectors may take samples of parts or materials entering construction or final assemblies, for further examinations, inspections, or tests. The manufacturer must provide a suitable place and the apparatus necessary for the performance of the tests done at the place of manufacture.


(e) *Additional tests, etc.* Unannounced examinations, tests, and inspections of samples obtained either directly from the manufacturer or through commercial channels may be made to determine the suitability of a product for listing and labeling, or to determine conformance of a labeled product to the applicable requirements. These may be conducted by the recognized laboratory or the United States Coast Guard.






