# § 1005.525   Loan Guarantee Certificate.

(a) HUD shall issue a Loan Guarantee Certificate as evidence of the guarantee when HUD completes a review of the Direct Guarantee Lender's endorsement case binder and determines the Loan complies with all applicable Section 184 Program requirements. HUD's issuance of the Loan Guarantee Certificate does not preclude HUD from conducting post-endorsement reviews under § 1005.527, seeking indemnification under § 1005.529, or imposing sanctions from originating Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder and/or Servicer under §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.


(b) HUD may issue a Loan Guarantee Certificate for a loan involving a security interest in Trust Land before HUD receives the required trailing documents from BIA, where applicable, if the Direct Guarantee Lender agrees to indemnify HUD. The indemnification agreement between HUD and the Direct Guarantee Lender will terminate only upon receipt of the Trailing Documents in a form and manner acceptable to HUD. Trailing Documents may include the following documents:


(1) A final certified TSR that identifies that the BIA or Tribe approved and recorded the mortgage instrument and residential lease related to the Section 184 Loan, as applicable;


(2) A certified true copy of the recorded mortgage instrument;


(3) A certified true copy of the recorded lease, if applicable;


(4) A certified true copy of the recorded executed mortgage release documents for all prior mortgages identified on the initial certified TSR, if applicable; and


(5) A certified true copy of any BIA approved and executed subordination agreements;


(c) The Loan Guarantee Certificate is conclusive evidence of the eligibility of the Loan for guarantee under this part. Such evidence will be incontestable in the hands of the bearer and the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of amounts agreed to be paid by HUD as security for such obligations.


(d) This section may not be construed to preclude HUD from conducting a post-endorsement review. With respect to the original Direct Guarantee Lender, HUD may establish defenses against the original Direct Guarantee Lender based on fraud or material misrepresentation. This section may not be construed to bar HUD from establishing partial defenses to the amount payable on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.






