# § 806.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Act* means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(b) *Agency* or *FDA* means the Food and Drug Administration.


(c) *Consignee* means any person or firm that has received, purchased, or used a device subject to correction or removal.


(d) *Correction* means the repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction, or inspection (including patient monitoring) of a device without its physical removal from its point of use to some other location.


(e) *Correction or removal report number* means the number that uniquely identifies each report submitted.


(f) *Human cell, tissue, or cellular or tissue-based product (HCT/P) regulated as a device* means an HCT/P as defined in § 1271.3(d) of this chapter that does not meet the criteria in § 1271.10(a) and that is also regulated as a device.


(g) *Importer* means, for the purposes of this part, any person who imports a device into the United States.


(h) *Manufacturer* means any person who manufactures, prepares, propagates, compounds, assembles, or processes a device by chemical, physical, biological, or other procedures. The term includes any person who:


(1) Repackages or otherwise changes the container, wrapper, or labeling of a device in furtherance of the distribution of the device from the original place of manufacture to the person who makes final delivery or sale to the ultimate user or consumer;


(2) Initiates specifications for devices that are manufactured by a second party for subsequent distribution by the person initiating the specifications; or


(3) Manufactures components or accessories which are devices that are ready to be used and are intended to be commercially distributed and are intended to be used as is, or are processed by a licensed practitioner or other qualified person to meet the needs of a particular patient.


(i) *Market withdrawal* means a correction or removal of a distributed device that involves a minor violation of the act that would not be subject to legal action by FDA or that involves no violation of the act, e.g., normal stock rotation practices.


(j) *Removal* means the physical removal of a device from its point of use to some other location for repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction, or inspection.


(k) *Risk to health* means


(1) A reasonable probability that use of, or exposure to, the product will cause serious adverse health consequences or death; or


(2) That use of, or exposure to, the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences, or an outcome where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.


(l) *Routine servicing* means any regularly scheduled maintenance of a device, including the replacement of parts at the end of their normal life expectancy, e.g., calibration, replacement of batteries, and responses to normal wear and tear. Repairs of an unexpected nature, replacement of parts earlier than their normal life expectancy, or identical repairs or replacements of multiple units of a device are not routine servicing.


(m) *Stock recovery* means the correction or removal of a device that has not been marketed or that has not left the direct control of the manufacturer, i.e., the device is located on the premises owned, or under the control of, the manufacturer, and no portion of the lot, model, code, or other relevant unit involved in the corrective or removal action has been released for sale or use.


(n) *Unique device identifier (UDI)* means an identifier that adequately identifies a device through its distribution and use by meeting the requirements of § 830.20 of this chapter. A UDI is composed of:


(1) A *device identifier*—a mandatory, fixed portion of a UDI that identifies the specific version or model of a device and the labeler of that device; and


(2) A *production identifier*—a conditional, variable portion of a UDI that identifies one or more of the following when included on the label of the device:


(i) The lot or batch within which a device was manufactured;


(ii) The serial number of a specific device;


(iii) The expiration date of a specific device;


(iv) The date a specific device was manufactured.


(v) For an HCT/P regulated as a device, the distinct identification code required by § 1271.290(c) of this chapter.



---

[N] [62 FR 27191, May 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 42232, Aug. 7, 1998; 78 FR 58821, Sept. 24, 2013]




