# § 52.3184   Grades of dried prunes.

(a) “U.S. Grade A” or “U.S. Fancy” is the quality of dried prunes that, except for mixed types, possess similar varietal characteristics; that are fairly uniform in size and average 85 prunes or less per pound; that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that do not exceed the total allowances and limitations for defects shown in Table I of this subpart.


(b) “U.S. Grade B” or “U.S. Choice” is the quality of dried prunes that, except for mixed types, possess similar varietal characteristics; that are fairly uniform in size; that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that do not exceed the total allowances and limitations for defects shown in Table II of this subpart.


(c) “U.S. Grade C” or “U.S. Standard” is the quality of dried prunes that, except for mixed types, possess similar varietal characteristics; that are fairly uniform in size; that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that do not exceed the total allowances and limitations for defects shown in Table III of this subpart


(d) “Substandard” is the quality of dried prunes that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that may fail to meet other requirements for U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard, but not more than 5 percent, by weight, of the dried prunes may be affected by mold, dirt, foreign material, insect infestation, or decay: *Provided,* That not more than 1 percent, by weight, of the dried prunes may be affected by decay.



---

[N] [21 FR 8177, Oct. 25, 1956, as amended at 30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]




