# § 1580.203   Location and shipping information.

(a) *General requirement.* Each owner/operator described in § 1580.201 of this part must have procedures in place to determine the location and shipping information for each rail car under its physical custody and control that contains one or more of the categories and quantities of rail security-sensitive materials.


(b) *Required information.* The location and shipping information must include the following:


(1) The rail car's current location by city, county, and state, including, for freight railroad carriers, the railroad milepost, track designation, and the time that the rail car's location was determined.


(2) The rail car's routing, if a freight railroad carrier.


(3) A list of the total number of rail cars containing rail security-sensitive materials, broken down by—


(i) The shipping name prescribed for the material in column 2 of the table in 49 CFR 172.101;


(ii) The hazard class or division number prescribed for the material in column 3 of the table in 49 CFR 172.101; and


(iii) The identification number prescribed for the material in column 4 of the table in 49 CFR 172.101.


(4) Each rail car's initial and number.


(5) Whether the rail car is in a train, rail yard, siding, rail spur, or rail hazardous materials shipper or receiver facility, including the name of the rail yard or siding designation.


(c) *Timing-Class I freight railroad carriers.* Upon request by TSA, each Class I freight railroad carrier described in paragraph (a) of this section must provide the location and shipping information to TSA no later than—


(1) Five minutes if the request applies to a single (one) rail car; and


(2) Thirty minutes if the request concerns multiple rail cars or a geographic region.


(d) *Timing-other than Class I freight railroad carriers.* Upon request by TSA, all owner/operators described in paragraph (a) of this section, other than Class I freight railroad carriers, must provide the location and shipping information to TSA no later than 30 minutes, regardless of the number of cars covered by the request.


(e) *Method.* All owner/operators described in paragraph (a) of this section must provide the requested location and shipping information to TSA by one of the following methods:


(1) Electronic data transmission in spreadsheet format.


(2) Electronic data transmission in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) format.


(3) Electronic data transmission in Extensible Markup Language (XML).


(4) Facsimile transmission of a hard copy spreadsheet in tabular format.


(5) Posting the information to a secure website address approved by TSA.


(6) Another format approved by TSA.


(f) *Telephone number.* Each owner/operator described in § 1580.201 of this part must provide a telephone number for use by TSA to request the information required in paragraph (b) of this section.


(1) The telephone number must be monitored at all times.


(2) A telephone number that requires a call back (such as an answering service, answering machine, or beeper device) does not meet the requirements of this paragraph.




