# § 572.18   Thorax.

(a) The thorax consists of the part of the torso shown in assembly drawing SA 103C 001 by number SA 103C 030 and conforms to each of the applicable drawings listed under this number on drawing SA 103C 002, sheets 10 and 11.


(b) When impacted by a test probe conforming to § 572.21(a) at 13 fps in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the peak resultant accelerations at the location of the accelerometers mounted in the chest cavity in accordance with § 572.21(c) shall be not less than 50g and not more than 70g. The acceleration-time curve for the test shall be unimodal at or above the 30g level and shall lie at or above the 30g level for an interval not less than 2.5 milliseconds and not more than 4.0 milliseconds. The lateral acceleration shall not exceed 5g.


(c) *Test procedure.* (1) With the dummy seated without back support on a surface as specified in § 572.21(h) and oriented as specified in § 572.21(h), adjust the dummy arms and legs until they are extended horizontally forward parallel to the midsagittal plane. The joints of the limbs are adjusted at any setting between 1g and 2g, which just supports the limbs' weight when the limbs are extended horizontally forward.


(2) Establish the impact point at the chest midsagittal plane so that it is 1.5 inches below the longitudinal centerline of the bolt that attaches the top of the ribcage sternum to the thoracic spine box.


(3) Adjust the dummy so that the tangent plane at the surface on the thorax immediately adjacent to the designated impact point is vertical and parallel to the face of the test probe.


(4) Place the longitudinal centerline of the test probe to coincide with the designated impact point and align the test probe so that at impact its longitudinal centerline coincides within 2 degrees with the line formed by intersection of the horizontal and midsagittal planes passing through the designated impact point.


(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of impact the probe's longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy midsagittal plane.


(6) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement.


(7) Allow a time period of at least 20 minutes between successive tests of the chest.




