# § 1.401(a)(9)-7   Rollovers and transfers.

(a) *Treatment of rollover from distributing plan.* If an amount is distributed by a plan, then the amount distributed is still taken into account by the distributing plan for purposes of satisfying the requirements of section 401(a)(9), even if part of the distribution is rolled over into another eligible retirement plan described in section 402(c)(8). However, an amount that is a required minimum distribution under section 401(a)(9) is not eligible to be rolled over (and is therefore includible in the taxpayer's gross income under section 402). For this purpose, the amount that constitutes a required minimum distribution for a calendar year is determined in accordance with § 1.402(c)-2(f) for a distribution to an employee and § 1.402(c)-2(j) for a distribution to a beneficiary.


(b) *Treatment of rollover by receiving plan.* If an amount is distributed by one plan (distributing plan) and is rolled over to another plan (receiving plan), the benefit of the employee under the receiving plan is increased by the amount rolled over for purposes of determining the required minimum distribution for the calendar year following the calendar year in which the amount rolled over was distributed. If the amount rolled over is received after the last valuation date in the calendar year under the receiving plan, the benefit of the employee as of that valuation date, adjusted in accordance with § 1.401(a)(9)-5(b), is increased by the rollover amount valued as of the date of receipt. In addition, if the amount rolled over is received in a different calendar year from the calendar year in which it is distributed, the amount rolled over is deemed to have been received by the receiving plan on the last day of the calendar year in which it was distributed.


(c) *Treatment of transfer under transferor plan*—(1) *Generally not treated as distribution.* In the case of a transfer of an amount of an employee's benefit from one plan (transferor plan) to another plan (transferee plan), the transfer is not treated as a distribution by the transferor plan for purposes of section 401(a)(9). Instead, the benefit of the employee under the transferor plan is decreased by the amount transferred. However, if any portion of an employee's benefit is transferred in a distribution calendar year with respect to that employee, in order to satisfy the requirements of section 401(a)(9), the transferor plan must determine the amount of the required minimum distribution with respect to that employee for the calendar year of the transfer using the employee's benefit under the transferor plan before the transfer. Additionally, if any portion of an employee's benefit is transferred in the employee's second distribution calendar year, but on or before the employee's required beginning date, in order to satisfy section 401(a)(9), the transferor plan must determine the amount of the required minimum distribution for the employee's first distribution calendar year based on the employee's benefit under the transferor plan before the transfer. The transferor plan may satisfy the minimum distribution requirement for the calendar year of the transfer (and the prior year if applicable) by segregating the amount that must be distributed from the employee's benefit and not transferring that amount. That amount may be retained by the transferor plan and must be distributed on or before the date required under section 401(a)(9).


(2) *Account balance decreased after transfer.* For purposes of determining any required minimum distribution for the calendar year following the calendar year in which the transfer occurs, in the case of a transfer after the last valuation date for the calendar year of the transfer under the transferor plan, the benefit of the employee as of that valuation date, adjusted in accordance with § 1.401(a)(9)-5(b), is decreased by the amount transferred, valued as of the date of the transfer.


(d) *Treatment of transfer under transferee plan.* In the case of a transfer from a transferor plan to a transferee plan, the benefit of the employee under the transferee plan is increased by the amount transferred in the same manner as if it were a plan receiving a rollover contribution under paragraph (b) of this section.


(e) *Treatment of spinoff or merger.* For purposes of determining an employee's benefit and required minimum distribution under section 401(a)(9), a spinoff, a merger, or a consolidation (as defined in § 1.414(l)-1(b)) is treated as a transfer of the benefits of the employees involved. Consequently, the benefit and required minimum distribution with respect to each employee whose benefits are transferred will be determined in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.







---

[N] [T.D. 8987, 67 FR 18994, Apr. 17, 2002, as amended by T.D. 10001, 89 FR 58907, July 19, 2024]






