# § 3430.55   Technical reporting.

(a) *Requirement.* All projects supported with Federal funds under this part must be documented in the Current Research Information System (CRIS).


(b) *Initial Documentation in the CRIS Database.* Information collected in the “Work Unit Description” (Form AD-416) and “Work Unit Classification” (Form AD-417) is required upon project initiation for all new awards in CRIS (*i.e.*, prior to award).


(c) *Annual CRIS Reports.* Unless stated differently in the award terms and conditions, an annual “Accomplishments Report” (Form AD-421) is due 90 calendar days after the award's anniversary date (*i.e.*, one year following the month and day on which the project period begins and each year thereafter up until a final report is required). An annual report covers a one-year period. In addition to the Form AD-421, the following information, when applicable, must be submitted to the programmatic contact person identified in block 14 of the Award Face Sheet (Form NIFA-2009): a comparison of actual accomplishments with the goals established for the reporting period (where the output of the project can be expressed readily in numbers, a computation of the cost per unit of output should be considered if the information is considered useful); the reasons for slippage if established goals were not met; and additional pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or unexpectedly high unit costs. The annual report of “Funding and Staff Support” (Form AD-419) is due February 1 of the year subsequent to the Federal fiscal year being reported.


(d) *CRIS Final Report.* The CRIS final report, “Accomplishments Report” (Form AD-421), covers the entire period of performance of the award. The report should encompass progress made during the entire timeframe of the project instead of covering accomplishments made only during the final reporting segment of the project. In addition to providing the information required under paragraph (c) of this section, the final report must include the following when applicable: a disclosure of any inventions not previously reported that were conceived or first actually reduced to practice during the performance of the work under the award; a written statement on whether or not the awardee elects (or plans to elect) to obtain patent(s) on any such invention; and an identification of equipment purchased with any Federal funds under the award and any subsequent use of such equipment.


(e) *CRIS Web Site Via Internet.* The CRIS database is available to the public on the worldwide web. CRIS project information is available via the Internet CRIS Web site at *http://cris.nifa.usda.gov.* To submit forms electronically, the CRIS forms Web site can be accessed through the CRIS Web site or accessed directly at *http://cwf.uvm.edu/cris.*

(f) *Additional reporting requirements.* Awardees may be required to submit other technical reports or submit the CRIS reports more frequently than annually. Additional requirements for a specific Federal assistance program are described in the applicable subpart after subpart E and are identified in the RFA. The Award Face Sheet (Form NIFA-2009) also will specify these additional reporting requirements as a special provision to the award terms and conditions.




