# § 63.4130   What records must I keep?

You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard. 


(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart and the documentation supporting each notification and report. 


(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers such as manufacturer's formulation data or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or volume fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier. 


(c) For each compliance period, a record of the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) and the coating operations at which each compliance option was used and a record of all determinations of kg organic HAP per liter of coating solids for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) For the compliant material option, a record of the determination of the organic HAP content for each coating, according to § 63.4141(d). 


(2) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4151 and, if applicable, the calculations used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 3 of § 63.4151. 


(3) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4151 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4161, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 4 of § 63.4161. 


(d) A record of the name and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period. 


(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period. 


(f) A record of the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period except for zero-HAP coatings for which volume solids determination is not required as allowed in § 63.4141.


(g) A record of the density for each coating used during each compliance period except for zero-HAP coatings for which volume solids determination is not required as allowed in § 63.4141 and, if you use either the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option, a record of the density for each thinner and cleaning material used during each compliance period.


(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4151 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.4151(e)(4), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4151, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility, and the date of each shipment. 


(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.4151. 


(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4151(e)(4) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each month; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment. 


(i) [Reserved] 


(j) Before September 12, 2019, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after September 12, 2019, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.


(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g).


(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g).


(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 or any applicable operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g).


(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4100(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(k) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) Before September 12, 2019, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The record in this paragraph (k)(1) is not required on and after September 12, 2019.


(2) Before September 12, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. The records in this paragraph (k)(2) are not required on and after September 12, 2019.


(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you. 


(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4165(a). 


(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4164 and 63.4165(b) through (e) including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you. 


(i) *Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.* Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each material used in the coating operation, and the total TVH for all materials used during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure. 


(ii) *Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.* Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure. 


(iii) *Records for an alternative protocol.* Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4165(e), if applicable. 


(6) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4166. 


(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4164 and 63.4166. 


(ii) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions. 


(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4167 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 1 of this subpart. 


(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4093, and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis. 



---

[N] [67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9614, Mar. 15, 2019]




