# § 1493.520   Recovery of losses.

(a) *Notification.* Upon payment of loss to the exporter or the exporter's assignee, CCC will notify the importer of CCC's rights under the subrogation agreement to recover all moneys in default. 


(b) *Receipt of monies.* (1) In the event that monies for a defaulted payment are recovered by the exporter or the exporter's assignee from the importer or any other source whatsoever, such monies shall be immediately paid to the Treasurer, CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery by the exporter or the exporter's assignee, the exporter or the exporter's assignee will owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery to the date of receipt by CCC. This interest will be calculated based on the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the exporter or the exporter's assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery. 


(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a payment guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee its pro rata share immediately, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If payment is not made by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated on the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and such interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the holder of the payment guarantee. 


(c) *Allocation of recoveries.* Recoveries made by CCC from the importer, and recoveries received by CCC from the exporter, the exporter's assignee, or any other source whatsoever, will be allocated by CCC to the exporter or the exporter's assignee and to CCC on a pro rata basis determined by their respective interests in such recoveries. The respective interest of each party will be determined on a pro rata basis, based on the combined amount of principal and interest in default. Once CCC has paid out a particular claim under a payment guarantee, CCC pro rates any collections it receives and shares these collections proportionately with the holder of the guarantee until both CCC and the holder of the guarantee have been reimbursed in full. Appendix A to § 1493.520—Illustration of Pro Rata Allocation of Recoveries—provides an example of the methodology used by CCC in applying this paragraph (c). 


(d) *Liabilities to CCC.* Notwithstanding any other terms of the payment guarantee, the exporter may be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the payment guarantee when and if it is determined by CCC that the exporter has engaged in fraud, or has been or is in material breach of any contractual obligation, certification or warranty made by the exporter for the purpose of obtaining the payment guarantee or for fulfilling obligations under SCGP. Further, the exporter's assignee may be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the payment guarantee when and if it is determined by CCC that the exporter's assignee has engaged in fraud or otherwise violated program requirements. 


(e) *Good faith.* The violation by an exporter of the certifications in §§ 1493.440(b) and 1493.480(d) or the failure of an exporter to comply with the provisions of §§ 1493.490 or 1493.530(e) will not affect the validity of any payment guarantee with respect to an assignee which had no knowledge of such violation or failure to comply at the time such exporter applied for the payment guarantee or at the time of assignment of the payment guarantee. 


(f) *Cooperation in recoveries.* Upon payment by CCC of a claim to the exporter or the exporter's assignee, the exporter or the exporter's assignee will cooperate with CCC to effect recoveries from the importer. 


