# § 51.110   Resident assessment.

The facility management must conduct initially, annually and as required by a change in the resident's condition a comprehensive, accurate, standardized, reproducible assessment of each resident's functional capacity.


(a) *Admission orders.* At the time each resident is admitted, the facility management must have physician orders for the resident's immediate care and a medical assessment, including a medical history and physical examination, within a time frame appropriate to the resident's condition, not to exceed 72 hours after admission, except when an examination was performed within five days before admission and the findings were recorded in the medical record on admission.


(b) *Comprehensive assessments.* (1) The facility management must make a comprehensive assessment of a resident's needs:


(i) Using the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set, Version 3.0; and


(ii) Describing the resident's capability to perform daily life functions, strengths, performances, needs as well as significant impairments in functional capacity.


(2) *Frequency.* Assessments must be conducted—


(i) No later than 14 days after the date of admission;


(ii) Promptly after a significant change in the resident's physical, mental, or social condition; and


(iii) In no case less often than once every 12 months.


(3) *Review of assessments.* The nursing facility management must examine each resident no less than once every 3 months, and as appropriate, revise the resident's assessment to assure the continued accuracy of the assessment.


(4) *Use.* The results of the assessment are used to develop, review, and revise the resident's individualized comprehensive plan of care, under paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Accuracy of assessments.* (1) Coordination—


(i) Each assessment must be conducted or coordinated with the appropriate participation of health professionals.


(ii) Each assessment must be conducted or coordinated by a registered nurse that signs and certifies the completion of the assessment.


(2) Certification. Each person who completes a portion of the assessment must sign and certify the accuracy of that portion of the assessment.


(d) Submission of assessments. Each assessment (initial, annual, change in condition, and quarterly) using the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set, Version 3.0 must be submitted electronically to VA at the IP address provided by VA to the State within 30 days after completion of the assessment document.


(e) *Comprehensive care plans.* (1) The facility management must develop an individualized comprehensive care plan for each resident that includes measurable objectives and timetables to meet a resident's physical, mental, and psychosocial needs that are identified in the comprehensive assessment. The care plan must describe the following—


(i) The services that are to be furnished to attain or maintain the resident's highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being as required under § 51.120; and


(ii) Any services that would otherwise be required under § 51.120 of this part but are not provided due to the resident's exercise of rights under § 51.70, including the right to refuse treatment under § 51.70(b)(4) of this part.


(2) A comprehensive care plan must be—


(i) Developed within 7 calendar days after completion of the comprehensive assessment;


(ii) Prepared by an interdisciplinary team, that includes the primary physician, a registered nurse with responsibility for the resident, and other appropriate staff in disciplines as determined by the resident's needs, and, to the extent practicable, the participation of the resident, the resident's family or the resident's legal representative; and


(iii) Periodically reviewed and revised by a team of qualified persons after each assessment.


(3) The services provided or arranged by the facility must—


(i) Meet professional standards of quality; and


(ii) Be provided by qualified persons in accordance with each resident's written plan of care.


(f) *Discharge summary.* Prior to discharging a resident, the facility management must prepare a discharge summary that includes—


(1) A recapitulation of the resident's stay;


(2) A summary of the resident's status at the time of the discharge to include items in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and


(3) A post-discharge plan of care that is developed with the participation of the resident and his or her family, which will assist the resident to adjust to his or her new living environment.



---

[N] [65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009; 77 FR 26184, May 3, 2012; 88 FR 83034, Nov. 28, 2023]




