# § 0.55   General functions.

The following functions are assigned to and shall be conducted, handled, or supervised by, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division:


(a) Prosecutions for Federal crimes not otherwise specifically assigned. 


(b) Cases involving criminal frauds against the United States except cases assigned to the Antitrust Division by § 0.40(a) involving conspiracy to defraud the Federal Government by violation of the antitrust laws, and tax fraud cases assigned to the Tax Division by subpart N of this part.


(c) All criminal and civil litigation under the Controlled Substances Act, 84 Stat. 1242, and the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, 84 Stat. 1285 (titles II and III of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970). 


(d) Civil or criminal forfeiture or civil penalty actions (including petitions for remission or mitigation of forfeitures and civil penalties, offers in compromise, and related proceedings) under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, the Contraband Transportation Act, the Copyrights Act, the customs laws (except those assigned to the Civil Division which involve sections 592, 704(i)(2) or 734(i)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930), the Export Control Act of 1949, the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, the Federal Seed Act, the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, the Hours of Service Act, the Animal Welfare Act, the Immigration and Nationality Act (except civil penalty actions and petitions and offers related thereto), the neutrality laws, laws relating to cigarettes, liquor, narcotics and dangerous drugs, other controlled substances, gambling, war materials, pre-Colombian artifacts, coinage, and firearms, locomotive inspection (45 U.S.C. 22, 23, 28-34), the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, prison-made goods (18 U.S.C. 1761-1762), the Safety Appliance Act, standard barrels (15 U.S.C. 231-242), the Sugar Act of 1948, and the Twenty-Eight Hour Law.


(e) Subject to the provisions of subpart Y of this part, consideration, acceptance, or rejection of offers in compromise of criminal and tax liability under the laws relating to liquor, narcotics and dangerous drugs, gambling, and firearms, in cases in which the criminal liability remains unresolved. 


(f) All criminal litigation and related investigations and inquiries pursuant to all the power and authority of the Attorney General to enforce the Immigration and Nationality Act and all other laws relating to the immigration and naturalization of aliens; all advice to the Attorney General with respect to the exercise of his parole authority under 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5) concerning aliens who are excludable under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(23), (28), (29), or (33); and all civil litigation with respect to the individuals identified in 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(33), 1251(a)(19).


(g) Coordination of enforcement activities directed against organized crime and racketeering. 


(h) Enforcement of the Act of January 2, 1951, 64 Stat. 1134, as amended by the Gambling Devices Act of 1962, 76 Stat. 1075, 15 U.S.C. 1171 *et seq.*, including registration thereunder. (See also 28 CFR 3.2) 


(i) All civil proceedings seeking exclusively equitable relief against Criminal Division activities including criminal investigations, prosecutions, and other criminal justice activities (including without limitation, applications for writs of coram nobis and writs of habeas corpus not challenging exclusion, deportation, or detention under the immigration laws), except that any proceeding may be conducted, handled, or supervised by the Assistant Attorney General for National Security or another Division by agreement between the head of such Division and the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division.


(j) International extradition proceedings. 


(k) Relation of military to civil authority with respect to criminal matters affecting both. 


(l) All criminal matters arising under the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 519). 


(m) Enforcement of the following-described provisions of the United States Code—


(1) Sections 591 through 593 and sections 595 through 612 of title 18, U.S. Code, relating to elections and political activities; 


(2) Sections 241, 242, and 594 of title 18, and sections 1973i and 1973j of title 42, U.S. Code, insofar as they relate to voting and election matters not involving discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race or color, and section 245(b)(1) of title 18 U.S. Code, insofar as it relates to matters not involving discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race, color, religion, or national origin; 


(3) Section 245(b)(3) of title 18, U.S. Code, pertaining to forcible interference with persons engaged in business during a riot or civil disorder; and 


(4) Sections 241 through 256 of title 2, U.S. Code (Federal Corrupt Practices Act). (See § 0.50(a).) 


(n) Civil actions arising under 39 U.S.C. 3010, 3011 (Postal Reorganization Act). 


(o) Resolving questions that arise as to Federal prisoners held in custody by Federal officers or in Federal prisons, commitments of mentally defective defendants and juvenile delinquents, validity and construction of sentences, probation, and parole. 


(p) Supervision of matters arising under the Escape and Rescue Act (18 U.S.C. 751, 752), the Fugitive Felon Act (18 U.S.C. 1072, 1073), and the Obstruction of Justice Statute (18 U.S.C. 1503). 


(q) Supervision of matters arising under the Bail Reform Act of 1966 (28 U.S.C. 3041-3143, 3146-3152, 3568). 


(r) Supervision of matters arising under the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act of 1966 (18 U.S.C. 4251-4255; 28 U.S.C. 2901-2906; 42 U.S.C. 3411-3426, 3441, 3442). 


(s) Civil proceedings in which the United States is the plaintiff filed under the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, 18 U.S.C. 1963-1968.


(t) Upon request, certifications under 18 U.S.C. 245.


(u) Exercise of the authority vested in the Attorney General under 10 U.S.C. 374(b)(2)(E) to approve the use of military equipment by Department of Defense personnel to provide transportation and base of operations support in connection with a civilian law enforcement operation.


(v) Upon request, certification under 18 U.S.C. 249, relating to hate crimes, in cases involving extraterritorial crimes that also involve charges filed pursuant to the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (18 U.S.C. 3261 *et seq.*), or pursuant to chapters of the Criminal Code prohibiting genocide (18 U.S.C. 1091), torture (18 U.S.C. 2340A), war crimes (18 U.S.C. 2441), or recruitment or use of child soldiers (18 U.S.C. 2442).



---

[N] [Order No. 423-69, 34 FR 20388, Dec. 31, 1969]


