# § 489.65   Amount of the bond.

(a) *Basic rule.* The amount of the surety bond must be $50,000 or 15 percent of the Medicare payments made by CMS to the HHA in the HHA's most recent fiscal year for which a cost report has been accepted by CMS, whichever is greater.


(b) *Computation of the 15 percent: Participating HHA.* The 15 percent is computed as follows:


(1) For the initial bond—on the basis of Medicare payments made by CMS to the HHA in the HHA's most recent fiscal year as shown in the HHA's most recent cost report that has been accepted by CMS. If the initial bond will cover less than a full fiscal year, the computation of the 15 percent will be based on the number of months of the fiscal year that the bond will cover.


(2) For subsequent bonds—on the basis of Medicare payments made by CMS in the most recent fiscal year for which a cost report has been accepted. However, if payments in the first six months of the current fiscal year differ from such an amount by more than 25 percent, then the amount of the bond is 15 percent of such payments projected on an annualized basis.


(c) *Computation of 15 percent: An HHA that seeks to become a participating HHA by obtaining assets or ownership interest.* For an HHA that seeks to become a participating HHA by purchasing the assets or the ownership interest of a participating or formerly participating HHA, the 15 percent is computed on the basis of Medicare payments made by CMS to the participating or formerly participating HHA in the most recent fiscal year that a cost report has been accepted.


(d) *Change of ownership.* For an HHA that undergoes a change of ownership the 15 percent is computed on the basis of Medicare payments made by CMS to the HHA for the most recently accepted cost report.


(e) *An HHA that seeks to become a participating HHA without obtaining assets or ownership interest.* For an HHA that seeks to become a participating HHA without purchasing the assets or the ownership interest of a participating or formerly participating HHA, the 15 percent computation does not apply.


(f) *Exception to the basic rule.* If an HHA's overpayment in the most recently accepted cost report exceeds 15 percent of annual payments, CMS may require the HHA to secure a bond in an amount up to or equal to the amount of overpayment, provided the amount of the bond is not less than $50,000.


(g) *Expiration of the 15 percent provision.* For an annual surety bond, or for a rider on a continuous surety bond, that is required to be submitted on or after June 1, 2005, notwithstanding any reference in this subpart to 15 percent as a basis for determining the amount of the bond, the amount of the bond or rider, as applicable, must be $50,000 or such amount as CMS specifies in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, whichever amount is greater.



---

[N] [63 FR 313, Jan. 5, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 29655, June 1, 1998]




