# § 9901.3   Requests for records.

(a) *Generally.* Many documents are available on the MCRMC Web site and MCRMC encourages requesters to visit the Web site before making a request for records pursuant to this subpart. MCRMC will provide records to individual requesters in response to FOIA requests for records not available on its Web site.


(b) *Electronic or written requests required.* For records not available on the Web site, requesters wishing to obtain information from MCRMC should submit a request on the MCRMC Web site. If a computer is not available to the requester, a written request may be made to the MCRMC FOIA Officer. Such requests should be addressed to: FOIA Officer, Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission, Post Office Box 13170, Arlington, VA 22209. As there may be delays in mail delivery, it is advisable to send the request via facsimile to (703) 697-8330 or email to *foia@mcrmc.gov.* MCRMC will communicate with the requester by email unless he or she specifies otherwise.


(c) *Contents of request.* Requests must include the following:


(1) A statement that the request is being made under FOIA, the requester's full name and address, a telephone number at which the requester can be reached during normal business hours, and an email address for the requester, if the requester has one;


(2) A description of the records sought in enough detail to allow the records to be located with a reasonable amount of effort. The request must identify/describe the records sought and include information such as date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the records sought, where possible;


(3) If submitting the request as an *educational institution,* a *non-commercial scientific institution,* or a *representative of the news media,* the request must specifically identify the organization on which the status is based, and if a free-lance representative of the news media, the requester should submit a history of past publications and/or demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news-media entity;


(4) A fee waiver, if applicable; and


(5) If the request is made by mail, the words “FOIA REQUEST” or “REQUEST FOR RECORDS” must be clearly marked on the cover letter, letter, and envelope.


(d) *Perfected requests.* MCRMC will process only perfected requests. A perfected request must meet all of the requirements of this subpart.



---

[N] [79 FR 63498, Oct. 24, 2014]




