# ยง 91.22   Definitions.

(a) *The Act* means the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Subtitle A of Title II, Public Law 103-322, 108 Stat. 1796 (September 13, 1994) as amended by the Fiscal Year 1996 Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act, Public Law 104-134 (April 26, 1996), codified at 42 U.S.C. 13701 *et. seq.*

(b) *Assistant Attorney General* means the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs. 


(c) *Tribal lands* means: 


(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation; 


(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State; and 


(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of way running through the same. 


(d) *Indian Tribe* means an eligible Native American tribe as defined by the Indian Self Determination Act, 25 U.S.C. 450b(e). 


(e) *Construction* means the erection, acquisition, renovation, repair, remodeling, or expansion of new or existing buildings or other physical facilities, and the acquisition or installation of fixed furnishings and equipment. It includes facility planning (including environmental impact analysis), pre-architectural programming, architectural design, preservation, construction, administration, construction management, or project management costs. Construction does not include the purchase of land.



---

[N] [61 FR 49970, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 2299, Jan. 15, 2004]




