# ยง 63.7783   When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation, standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations for BOPF group: mercury (Hg); sinter plant windbox: Hg, hydrochloric acid (HCl), carbonyl sulfide (COS); Blast Furnace casthouse: HCl, total hydrocarbon (THC); Blast Furnace stove: HCl and total hydrocarbon (THC); primary emission control system for a BOPF: 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) toxic equivalent (TEQ), HCl, THC; fugitive and intermittent particulate sources.




(1) No later than May 22, 2006 for all emissions sources at an existing affected source except for a sinter cooler at an existing sinter plant.


(2) No later than January 13, 2007 for a sinter cooler at an existing sinter plant. 


(b) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is on or before May 20, 2003, then you must comply with each emission limitation, standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by May 20, 2003. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations for mercury.


(c) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is after May 20, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations for mercury.


(d) If your integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility is not a major source and becomes a major source of HAP, the following compliance dates apply to you.


(1) Any portion of the existing integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility that becomes a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.


(2) All other parts of the integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 2 years after it becomes a major source.


(e) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in ยง 63.7840. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.


(f) With regard to the mercury emission limitations, if you have a new or existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation for mercury that applies to you by the deadlines set forth in ยง 63.7791.


(g) If you have an existing affected source or a new or reconstructed affected source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before July 31, 2023, each sinter plant windbox, BF casthouse, BF stove, primary emission control system for a BOPF, and fugitive and intermittent particulate source at your facility must be in compliance with the applicable emission limits in table 1 of this subpart through performance testing under ยง 63.7825, April 3, 2025, except for the following:


(1) All affected sinter plant windbox sources that commence construction or reconstruction on or before July 31, 2023, must be in compliance with Hg, HCl, COS, TEQ, and PAH emissions limits in table 1 to this subpart through performance testing by April 3, 2027.


(2) All affected BF and BOPF sources that commence construction or reconstruction on or before July 31, 2023, must be in compliance with HCl, THC, and TEQ emissions limits in table 1 to this subpart through performance testing by April 3, 2027.


(3) All affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction on or before July 31, 2023 must be in compliance with work practices and limits for unplanned openings, work practices for beaching, and the opacity limit for slag processing in table 1 to this subpart through performance testing (or through reporting of number of unplanned openings for limits applicable to unplanned openings shown in table 1) by April 3, 2026.


(4) All affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after July 31, 2023, must be in compliance with all new and revised provisions in table 1 to this subpart through performance testing by April 3, 2024 or upon startup, whichever is later.









---

[N] [68 FR 27663, May 20, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 39585, July 13, 2006; 85 FR 42114, July 13, 2020; 89 FR 23319, Apr. 3, 2024]




