# § 1955.119   Sale of SFH inventory property to a public body or nonprofit organization.

Notwithstanding the provisions of § 1955.111 through § 1955.118 of this subpart, this section contains provisions for the sale of SFH inventory property to a public body or nonprofit organization to use for transitional housing for the homeless. A public body or nonprofit organization is a nonprogram applicant. All other SFH credit sales on nonprogram terms will be handled in accordance with subpart J of part 1951 of this chapter.


(a) *Method of sale.* The method of sale is according to § 1955.112 of this subpart. Upon request from a public body or nonprofit organization, Rural Development will provide a list of all SFH inventory property, regardless of whether it is listed for sale with real estate brokers. The list will indicate whether the property is program or nonprogram. Upon written notice of the organization's intent to buy a specific property, if it is not under a sale contract, Rural Development will withdraw the property from the market for a period not to exceed 30 days to provide the organization sufficient time to execute Form RD 1955-45.


(b) *Price.* The price of the property will be established according to § 1955.113 of this subpart; however, a 10 percent discount of the listed price is authorized on nonprogram property. No discount is authorized on program property.


(c) *Decent, safe and sanitary (DSS) standards.* If an organization wants to buy a property which does not meet DSS standards, Rural Development will repair it to meet those standards, including thermal performance standards, unless Rural Development determines it is not feasible to do so according to § 1955.64(a)(1)(ii) of subpart B of part 1955 of this chapter. The price will be adjusted to reflect any resulting change in value. Cosmetic repairs, if needed, such as painting, floor covering, landscaping, etc., are the responsibility of the organization. Form RD 1955-44, itemizing the required repairs and Rural Developments agreement to complete them before closing will be made a part of Form RD 1955-45, the sales contract, before it is signed. Required repairs must be completed before closing so DSS restrictions will not be required in the deed.


(d) *Approval and closing.* Processing cash sales or MFH credit sales on nonprogram terms is according to § 1955.118 of this subpart, except as follows:


(1) *Earnest money deposit.* No earnest money deposit is required.


(2) *Downpayment.* No downpayment is required.


(3) *Term of note.* The term of the note may not exceed 30 years.



---

[N] [55 FR 3942, Feb. 6, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 52653, Oct. 12, 1993]




