# ยง 27.55   Requirements of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.

(a) *General.* The Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act) and the regulations issued under the FAA Act (parts 1, 4, 5, and 7 of this chapter) provide that any person, except an agency of a State or political subdivision thereof or any officer or employee of any such agency, who imports distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages for nonindustrial use must comply with certain permit and labeling requirements as described in this section. See 27 CFR 1.10 for the definitions of distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages under the FAA Act. Tourists importing distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages into the United States for personal or other noncommercial use are not subject to the provisions of the FAA Act or regulations issued pursuant to the FAA Act (parts 1, 4, 5, and 7 of this chapter).


(b) *FAA Act basic permit.* Any person, except an agency of a State or a political subdivision thereof or any officer or employee of any such agency, who intends to engage in the business of importing distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages into the United States must, prior to importing such products into the United States, obtain an importer's basic permit, in accordance with the requirements of the FAA Act and regulations issued pursuant to the FAA Act, and must file with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the number associated with this permit with the filing of the customs entry when filing electronically as required under 27 CFR 1.58. Also, as required under ยง 1.58 of this chapter, if the importer is not filing electronically, the importer must have a copy of the FAA Act basic permit and make it available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer.


(c) *Certificate of label approval.* Any person and any agency of a State or political subdivision thereof or any officer or employee of such agency, removing for commercial purposes containers of distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages from customs custody for consumption, when filing electronically, must provide the TTB-assigned identification number of the valid certificate of label approval (COLA) for the distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages with the filing of the customs entry in accordance with the requirements of 27 CFR 4.40 in the case of wine, 27 CFR 5.51 in the case of distilled spirits, or 27 CFR 7.31 in the case of malt beverages. Also, as required under 27 CFR 4.40, 5.51, and 7.31, if the importer is not filing electronically, the importer must provide a copy of the valid COLA to CBP at time of entry.


(d) *Foreign certificates.* Every person and any agency of a State or political subdivision thereof or any officer or employee of such agency, importing for commercial purposes into the United States for consumption containers of distilled spirits or wines that require a certificate under 27 CFR 4.45 in the case of wine or 27 CFR 5.52 in the case of distilled spirits must be in possession of the certificate (and accompanying invoice, if applicable) at the time of release from customs custody.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94205, Dec. 22, 2016]




