# § 404.6   Time for processing response to requests.

(a) *In general.* EXIM is obligated to respond to requests within 20 working days of the date of receipt of the request unless unusual circumstances exist. EXIM ordinarily processes requests according to their order of receipt.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


(1) *Unusual circumstances* means, only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper process of requests:


(i) The need to search for and collect requested records from facilities that are separate from the office processing the request;


(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or


(iii) The need for consultation with another agency that has a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject matter interest therein. EXIM shall conduct any such consultations with all practicable speed.


(2) *Working days* means all calendar days excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal Government holidays.


(c) *Date of receipt.* A request will be deemed to have been received on the date that the request is received in the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office, provided that the requester has met all the mandatory requirements of § 404.4. EXIM will notify the requester of the date on which a request was officially received in the acknowledgment correspondence.


(d) *Order of processing.* EXIM will ordinarily process requests in order of receipt within their processing track.


(e) *Multitrack processing.* EXIM has designated processing tracks that distinguish between expedited, simple, and complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors EXIM considers are the number of offices involved, the number of pages involved in processing the request and the need for consultation or referrals. EXIM will advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, EXIM may offer the requester an opportunity to narrow or modify their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.


(f) *Unusual circumstances.* When EXIM cannot meet the statutory time limit for processing a request because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the FOIA, and extends the time limit on that basis, EXIM must, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which EXIM estimates processing of the request will be completed. Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, EXIM must provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. EXIM's FOIA contact or Public Liaison is available for this purpose. EXIM will also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services.


(g) *Aggregating requests.* To satisfy unusual circumstances under the FOIA, EXIM may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. EXIM cannot aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.


(h) *Expedited processing.* (1) EXIM must process requests and appeals on an expedited basis when EXIM determines that the requester or appellant has demonstrated:


(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or


(ii) In the case of a requester who is primarily engaged in disseminating information, an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity. A requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the Government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about Government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic.


(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request should be submitted to the EXIM's Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Law and Board Support.


(3) A request for expedited processing and other submissions in support of the request must be accompanied by a statement certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge and belief. EXIM may waive this formal certification requirement as a matter of discretion. The statement must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746:


(i) If executed within the United States: “I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date]. (signature).”


(ii) If executed outside the United States: “I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature).”


(i) *Determination.* Upon receipt of a request for expedited processing, EXIM will consider the request and notify the requester of its determination within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request will be given priority and will be placed in a processing track for expedited requests and processed as soon as practicable.


(j) *Appeal.* A requester may file an administrative appeal, as set forth at § 404.12, based on a denial of a request for expedited processing. EXIM will grant expeditious consideration to any such appeal. The appeal should be clearly marked “Appeal for Expedited Processing.”






