# § 721.11013   Substituted heteromonocycle, polymer with substituted alkane and ethoxylated alkane, substituted heteromonocycle substituted alkyl ester-blocked (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted heteromonocycle, polymer with substituted alkane and ethoxylated alkane, substituted heteromonocycle substituted alkyl ester-blocked (PMN P-16-367) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3) and (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1) (lung effects), (g)(1) (sensitization), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), and (v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance to contain a residual of isocyanate greater than 0.1 weight percent. It is a significant new use to sell the substance for “consumer use” or for “commercial uses” (as the term is defined at § 721.3) when the “saleable goods or service” could introduce the substance into a “consumer” setting (as that term is defined in § 721.3).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48652, Oct. 19, 2017]




