# ยง 1697.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of the part the following definitions will apply:


*Agency* means an executive agency as is defined at 5 U.S.C. 105 including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission; a military department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; an agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in section 610 of title 28 U.S.C., the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation; an agency of the legislative branch including the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives; and other independent establishments that are entities of the federal government.


*Creditor agency* means the agency to which the debt is owed.


*Debt* means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interests, fines, forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and all other similar sources.


*Director* means the Director of Selective Service or his designee.


*Disposable pay* means the amount that remains from an employee's federal pay after required deductions for social security, federal, state or local income tax, health insurance premiums, retirement contributions, life insurance premiums, federal employment taxes, and any other deductions that are required to be withheld by law.


*Employee* means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves).


*Hearing official* means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed, and who renders a decision on the basis of such hearing. A hearing official may not be under the supervision or control of the Director of Selective Service.


*Paying Agency* means the agency that employs the individual who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his/her current pay.


*Salary offset* means an administrative offset to collect a debt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his/her consent.


*Waiver* means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774., 32 U.S.C. 716, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.




