# § 117.261   Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway from St. Marys River to Key Largo.

(a) *General.* Public vessels of the United States and tugs with tows must be passed through the drawspan of each drawbridge listed in this section at anytime.


(b)-(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Bridge of Lions (SR A1A) bridge, mile 777.9 at St. Augustine.* The draw shall open on signal; except that, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. the draw need open only on the hour and half-hour; however, the draw need not open at 8 a.m., 12 noon, and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday except Federal holidays. From 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays the draw need only open on the hour and half-hour.


(e)-(g) [Reserved]


(h) *George Musson/Coronado Beach (SR 44) bridge, mile 845 at New Smyrna Beach.* The George Musson/Coronado Beach (SR 44) bridge, mile 845, shall open on signal, except that from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., the draw shall open on the hour and half-hour, seven days a week.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) NASA Railroad bridge, mile 876.6 at Kennedy Space Center.


(1) The draw is not constantly tended.


(2) The draw is normally in the fully open position displaying flashing green lights to indicate that vessels may pass.


(3) When a train approaches the bridge, it stops and the operator initiates a command to lower the bridge. The lights go to flashing red and the draw lowers and locks, providing scanning equipment reveals nothing under the draw. The draw remains down until a manual raise command is initiated, or will raise automatically 5 minutes after the intermediate track circuit is no longer occupied by a rail car.


(4) After the train has cleared, the draw opens and the lights return to flashing green.


(k)-(m)[Reserved] 


(n) *A1A North Causeway Bridge, mile 964.8 at Fort Pierce.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(o) [Reserved]




(p) *Indiantown Road Bridge, mile 1006.2, at Jupiter.* The draw shall open on the hour and half hour except that the draw need not open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday except Federal holidays until 11:59 p.m. on August 31, 2025.


(q) *Indiantown Road bridge, mile 1006.2.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(r) *Donald Ross bridge, mile 1009.3, at North Palm Beach.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(s) *PGA Boulevard bridge, mile 1012.6, at North Palm Beach.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(t) *Parker (US-1) bridge, mile 1013.7, at Riviera Beach.* The draw shall open on the quarter and three-quarter hour.


(u) *Flagler Memorial (SR A1A) Bridge, mile 1021.8, at West Palm Beach.* (1) The draw shall open on the quarter and three-quarter hour.


(2) When the security zone is enforced, the draw is allowed to remain closed to navigation from 2:15 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. with the exception of a once an hour opening at 2:15 p.m., 3:15 p.m., 4:15 p.m. and 5:15 p.m., weekdays only, if vessels are requesting an opening. At all other times the draw shall open on the quarter and three-quarter hour.


(v) *Royal Park (SR 704) Bridge, mile 1022.6, at West Palm Beach.* (1) The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(2) When the security zone is enforced, the draw is allowed to remain closed to navigation from 2:15 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. with the exception of a once an hour opening at 2:30 p.m., 3:30 p.m., 4:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., weekdays only, if vessels are requesting an opening. At all other times the draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(w) *Southern Boulevard (SR 700/80) Bridge, mile 1024.7, at West Palm Beach.* (1) The draw shall open on the quarter and three-quarter hour.


(2) When the security zone is enforced, the draw may be closed without advance notice to permit uninterrupted transit of dignitaries across the bridge. At all other times the bridge shall open on the quarter and three-quarter hour, or as directed by the on-scene designated representative.


(x) *Ocean Avenue bridge, mile 1031.0, at Lantana.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(y) *Ocean Avenue bridge, mile 1035.0, at Boynton Beach.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(z) [Reserved]


(z-1) *Atlantic Avenue (SR 806) bridge, mile 1039.6, at Delray Beach.* The draw shall open on the quarter and three-quarter-hour.


(z-2) *Linton Boulevard bridge, mile 1041.1, at Delray Beach.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(z-3) *Spanish River bridge, mile 1044.9, at Boca Raton.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(aa) *Palmetto Park bridge, mile 1047.5, at Boca Raton.* The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(aa-1) *Boca Club, Camino Real bridge, mile 1048.2, at Boca Raton.* The draw shall open on the hour, twenty minutes past the hour and forty minutes past the hour.


(bb) *Broward County.* (1) Hillsboro Boulevard bridge (SR 810), mile 1050.0 at Deerfield Beach. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(2) NE 14th Street bridge, mile 1055.0 at Pompano. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(3) Atlantic Boulevard (SR 814) bridge, mile 1056.0 at Pompano. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(4) Commercial Boulevard (SR 870) bridge, mile 1059.0, at Lauderdale-by-the-Sea. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(5) Oakland Park Boulevard bridge, mile 1060.5 at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(6) East Sunrise Boulevard (SR 838) bridge, mile 1062.6, at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour. On the first weekend in May, the draw need not open from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, and, on the first Saturday in May, the draw need not open from 9:45 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.


(7) East Las Olas bridge, mile 1064 at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour. On the first weekend in May, the draw need not open from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, and, on the first Saturday in May, the draw need not open from 9:45 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.


(8) SE 17th Street (Brooks Memorial) bridge, mile 1065.9 at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(9) Dania Beach Boulevard bridge, mile 1069.4 at Dania Beach. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(10) Sheridan Street bridge, mile 1070.5, at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(11) Hollywood Beach Boulevard (SR 820) bridge, mile 1072.2 at Hollywood. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.


(12) Hallandale Beach Boulevard (SR 824) bridge, mile 1074.0 at Hallandale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(cc)-(kk) [Reserved] 


(ll) *N.E. 163rd Street (SR826) bridge, mile 1078.0 at Sunny Isles.* The draw shall open on signal; except that, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Monday through Friday except Federal holidays, and from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, the draw need open only on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(mm) *Broad Causeway bridge, mile 1081.4 at Bay Harbor Islands.* The draw shall open on signal; except that, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., the draw need open only on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.


(mm-1) West 79th Street Bridge. The draw of the West 79th Street Bridge, at Miami, Florida will open on signal, except that from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.


(nn) West 79th Street Bridge, mile 1084.6, at Miami, Florida. The draw shall operate as follows:


(1) Monday through Friday (except on Federal holidays):


(i) 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. the draw need only open on the hour.


(ii) 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.


(iii) 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. the draw need only open on the hour.


(iv) 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. the draw shall open on signal.


(2) Saturday, Sunday, and Federal holidays the draw shall open on signal.


(oo) The Venetian Causeway Bridge (West), mile 1088.6, at Miami. The draw shall open on signal, except that from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, including Federal holidays, the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.


(pp)—(ss) [Reserved] 



---

[N] [CGD7-84-29, 50 FR 51248, Dec. 16, 1985]


