# ยง 270.60   Permits by rule.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this part or part 124, the following shall be deemed to have a RCRA permit if the conditions listed are met:


(a) *Ocean disposal barges or vessels.* The owner or operator of a barge or other vessel which accepts hazardous waste for ocean disposal, if the owner or operator:


(1) Has a permit for ocean dumping issued under 40 CFR part 220 (Ocean Dumping, authorized by the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1420 *et seq.*);


(2) Complies with the conditions of that permit; and 


(3) Complies with the following hazardous waste regulations:


(i) 40 CFR 264.11, Identification number;


(ii) 40 CFR 264.71, Use of manifest system;


(iii) 40 CFR 264.72, Manifest discrepancies;


(iv) 40 CFR 264.73(a) and (b)(1), Operating record;


(v) 40 CFR 264.75, Biennial report; and 


(vi) 40 CFR 264.76, Unmanifested waste report.


(b) *Injection wells.* The owner or operator of an injection well disposing of hazardous waste, if the owner or operator:


(1) Has a permit for underground injection issued under part 144 or 145; and 


(2) Complies with the conditions of that permit and the requirements of ยง 144.14 (requirements for wells managing hazardous waste).


(3) For UIC permits issued after November 8, 1984:


(i) Complies with 40 CFR 264.101; and


(ii) Where the UIC well is the only unit at a facility which requires a RCRA permit, complies with 40 CFR 270.14(d).


(c) *Publicly owned treatment works.* The owner or operator of a POTW which accepts for treatment hazardous waste, if the owner or operator:


(1) Has an NPDES permit;


(2) Complies with the conditions of that permit; and 


(3) Complies with the following regulations: 


(i) 40 CFR 264.11, Identification number;


(ii) 40 CFR 264.71, Use of manifest system;


(iii) 40 CFR 264.72, Manifest discrepancies;


(iv) 40 CFR 264.73(a) and (b)(1), Operating record;


(v) 40 CFR 264.75, Biennial report;


(vi) 40 CFR 264.76, Unmanifested waste report; and 


(vii) For NPDES permits issued after November 8, 1984, 40 CFR 264.101.


(4) If the waste meets all Federal, State, and local pretreatment requirements which would be applicable to the waste if it were being discharged into the POTW through a sewer, pipe, or similar conveyance.



---

[N] [48 FR 14228, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 28752, July 15, 1985; 52 FR 45799, Dec. 1, 1987]




