# § 99.105   Definitions.

*Audit finding* means deficiencies which the auditor is required by § 99.510(a) to report in the schedule of findings and questioned costs.


*Auditee* means any non-Federal entity that expends Federal awards which must be audited under this part.


*Auditor* means an auditor that is a public accountant or a Federal, State, or local government audit organization, which meets the general standards specified in generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS). The term auditor does not include internal auditors of non-profit organizations.


*CFDA number* means the number assigned to a Federal program in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA).


*Cluster of programs* means a grouping of closely related programs that share common compliance requirements. The types of clusters of programs are research and development (R&D), student financial aid (SFA), and other clusters. “Other clusters” are as defined by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the compliance supplement or as designated by a State for Federal awards the State provides to its subrecipients that meet the definition of a cluster of programs. When designating an “other cluster,” a State shall identify the Federal awards included in the cluster and advise the subrecipients of compliance requirements applicable to the cluster, consistent with § 99.400(d)(1) and § 99.400(d)(2), respectively. A cluster of programs shall be considered as one program for determining major programs, as described in § 99.520, and, with the exception of R&D as described in § 99.200(c), whether a program-specific audit may be elected.


*Cognizant agency for audit* means the Federal agency designated to carry out the responsibilities described in § 99.400(a).


*Compliance supplement* refers to the Circular A-133 Compliance Supplement, included as Appendix B to Circular A-133, or such documents as OMB or its designee may issue to replace it. This document is available from the Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402-9325.


*Corrective action* means action taken by the auditee that:


(1) Corrects identified deficiencies,


(2) Produces recommended improvements, or


(3) Demonstrates that audit findings are either invalid or do not warrant auditee action.


*Federal agency* has the same meaning as the term agency in Section 551(1) of title 5, United States Code.


*Federal award* means Federal financial assistance and Federal cost-reimbursement contracts that non-Federal entities receive directly from Federal awarding agencies or indirectly from pass-through entities. It does not include procurement contracts, under grants or contracts, used to buy goods or services from vendors. Any audits of such vendors shall be covered by the terms and conditions of the contract. Contracts to operate Federal Government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCOs) facilities are excluded from the requirements of this part.


*Federal awarding agency* means the Federal agency that provides an award directly to the recipient.


*Federal financial assistance* means assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of grants, loans, loan guarantees, property (including donated surplus property), cooperative agreements, interest subsidies, insurance, food commodities, direct appropriations, and other assistance, but does not include amounts received as reimbursement for services rendered to individuals as described in § 99.205(h) and § 99.205(i).


*Federal program* means: (1) All Federal awards to a non-Federal entity assigned a single number in the CFDA. (When no CFDA number is assigned, all Federal awards from the same agency made for the same purpose should be combined and considered one program.)


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this definition, a cluster of programs. The types of clusters of programs are:


(i) Research and development (R&D);


(ii) Student financial aid (SFA); and


(iii) “Other clusters” as described in the definition of cluster of programs in this section.


*GAGAS* means generally accepted government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, which are applicable to financial audits.


*Generally accepted accounting principles* has the meaning specified in generally accepted auditing standards issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA).


*Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaskan Native village or regional or village corporation (as defined in, or established under, the Alaskan Native Claims Settlement Act) that is recognized by the United States as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Internal control* means a process, effected by an entity's management and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives in the following categories: 


(1) Effectiveness and efficiency of operations; 


(2) Reliability of financial reporting; and 


(3) Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.


*Internal control pertaining to the compliance requirements for Federal programs (Internal control over Federal programs)* means a process—effected by an entity's management and other personnel—designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the following objectives for Federal programs: 


(1) Transactions are properly recorded and accounted for to: 


(i) Permit the preparation of reliable financial statements and Federal reports; 


(ii) Maintain accountability over assets; and 


(iii) Demonstrate compliance with laws, regulations, and other compliance requirements; 


(2) Transactions are executed in compliance with: 


(i) Laws, regulations, and the provisions of contracts or grant agreements that could have a direct and material effect on a Federal program; and 


(ii) Any other laws and regulations that are identified in the compliance supplement; and 


(3) Funds, property, and other assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition.


*Loan* means a Federal loan or loan guarantee received or administered by a non-Federal entity.


*Local government* means any unit of local government within a State, including a county, borough, municipality, city, town, township, parish, local public authority, special district, school district, intrastate district, council of governments, and any other instrumentality of local government.


*Major program* means a Federal program determined by the auditor to be a major program in accordance with § 99.520 or a program identified as a major program by a Federal agency or pass-through entity in accordance with § 99.215(c).


*Management decision* means the evaluation by the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity of the audit findings and corrective action plan and the issuance of a written decision as to what corrective action is necessary.


*Non-Federal entity* means a State, local government, or non-profit organization.


*Non-profit organization* means: 


(1) Any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization that: 


(i) Is operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest; 


(ii) Is not organized primarily for profit; and 


(iii) Uses its net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand its operations; and 


(2) The term non-profit organization includes non-profit institutions of higher education and hospitals.


*OMB* means the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.


*Oversight agency for audit* means the Federal awarding agency that provides the predominant amount of direct funding to a recipient not assigned a cognizant agency for audit. When there is no direct funding, the Federal agency with the predominant indirect funding shall assume the oversight responsibilities. The duties of the oversight agency for audit are described in § 99.400(b).


*Pass-through entity* means a non-Federal entity that provides a Federal award to a subrecipient to carry out a Federal program.


*Program-specific audit* means an audit of one Federal program as provided for in § 99.200(c) and § 99.235.


*Questioned cost* means a cost that is questioned by the auditor because of an audit finding: 


(1) Which resulted from a violation or possible violation of a provision of a law, regulation, contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or other agreement or document governing the use of Federal funds, including funds used to match Federal funds; 


(2) Where the costs, at the time of the audit, are not supported by adequate documentation; or 


(3) Where the costs incurred appear unreasonable and do not reflect the actions a prudent person would take in the circumstances.


*Recipient* means a non-Federal entity that expends Federal awards received directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out a Federal program.


*Research and development (R&D)* means all research activities, both basic and applied, and all development activities that are performed by a non-Federal entity. Research is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. The term research also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where such activities utilize the same facilities as other research and development activities and where such activities are not included in the instruction function. Development is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes.


*Single audit* means an audit which includes both the entity's financial statements and the Federal awards as described in § 99.500.


*State* means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, any instrumentality thereof, any multi-State, regional, or interstate entity which has governmental functions, and any Indian tribe as defined in this section.


*Student Financial Aid (SFA)* includes those programs of general student assistance, such as those authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, (20 U.S.C. 1070 *et seq.*), which is administered by the U.S. Department of Education, and similar programs provided by other Federal agencies. It does not include programs which provide fellowships or similar Federal awards to students on a competitive basis, or for specified studies or research.


*Subrecipient* means a non-Federal entity that expends Federal awards received from a pass-through entity to carry out a Federal program, but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such a program. A subrecipient may also be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal awarding agency. Guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor is provided in § 99.210.


*Types of compliance requirements* refers to the types of compliance requirements listed in the compliance supplement. Examples include: activities allowed or unallowed; allowable costs/cost principles; cash management; eligibility; matching, level of effort, earmarking; and, reporting.


*Vendor* means a dealer, distributor, merchant, or other seller providing goods or services that are required for the conduct of a Federal program. These goods or services may be for an organization's own use or for the use of beneficiaries of the Federal program. Additional guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor is provided in § 99.210.




