# § 3020.116   Discovery—in general.

(a) *Purpose.* The rules in this subpart allow discovery that is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence during a proceeding. The notice and scheduling order issued pursuant to § 3020.110 shall provide that discovery will be scheduled to end at least three days prior to the commencement of hearings.


(b) *Informal discovery.* The discovery procedures in this section and §§ 3020.117 through 3020.119 are not exclusive. Participants are encouraged to engage in informal discovery whenever possible to clarify exhibits and testimony. The results of these efforts may be introduced into the record by stipulation, or by other appropriate means. In the interest of reducing motion practice, participants also are expected to use informal means to clarify questions and to identify portions of discovery requests considered overbroad or burdensome.


(c) *Failure to obey orders or rulings.* If a participant fails to obey an order of the Commission or ruling of presiding officer to provide or permit discovery pursuant to this section or §§ 3020.117 through 3020.119, the Commission or the presiding officer may issue orders or rulings in regard to the failure as are just. These orders or rulings may, among other things:


(1) Direct that certain designated facts are established for the purposes of the proceeding;


(2) Prohibit a participant from introducing certain designated matters in evidence;


(3) Strike certain evidence, requests, pleadings, or parts thereof; or


(4) Such other relief as the Commission deems appropriate.




