# § 403.817   Special rules concerning the territories.

(a) *In general.* (1) An applicant for endorsement may submit an application to become a special endorsed sponsor for all of the territories.


(2) Of qualified applicants, the Secretary will select at least one of the best-qualified applicants to receive a special endorsement for the territories.


(3) Applicants for special endorsement for the territories must demonstrate in their applications that they meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Requirements*—(1) *Negotiated prices.* A special endorsed sponsor for residents of the territories must provide access to negotiated prices in the territories.


(2) *Transitional assistance.* Any transitional assistance in the territories must be in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(3) *Requirements, exception.* Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a special endorsed sponsor for the territories must meet the requirements of §§ 403.804 and 403.806.


(c) *Waiver of requirements and alternative requirements.* (1) Section 403.806(d)(8) (requiring information about price differentials) shall not apply to pharmacies located in the territories and which are in the special endorsed sponsor's pharmacy network.


(2) Sections 403.806(f)(2) and (f)(3) will be deemed met if the special endorsed sponsor makes a good faith effort to secure the participation of retail and mail order pharmacies throughout a territory.


(3)(i) As the Secretary determines appropriate on a case-by-case basis, any additional requirements discussed in §§ 403.804 and 403.806, except for the requirements in §§ 403.812 and 403.813, may be waived or modified on behalf of a special endorsed sponsor for the territories if—


(A) Such waiver is necessary to enable the applicant to either initiate enrollment activities under the special endorsement within 6 months of enactment of section 1860D-31 of the Act, or accommodate the unique needs of pharmacies in the territories; or


(B) Compliance with the requirement(s) in question would be impracticable or inefficient.


(ii) Applicants to become special endorsed sponsors for the territories must request such waivers or modifications in writing in a manner required by the Secretary.


(d) *Other exceptions.* A special endorsed sponsor for the territories may enroll in its endorsed discount card program Medicaid enrollees with coverage for outpatient prescription drugs, as described in § 403.810(a)(2).


(e) *Transitional assistance provided by Territories.* (1) Transitional assistance in the territories may be administered only according to a plan submitted by a territory and approved by CMS.


(2) Territories choosing to provide transitional assistance must submit a plan to CMS within 90 days of the publication of this regulation. The plan must—


(i) Describe how funds allocated to the territory are to be used to cover the cost of covered discount card drugs obtained by individuals who reside in the territory, who are entitled to benefits under Medicare Part A or enrolled under Medicare Part B, and who have income at or below 135 percent of the poverty line for the contiguous United States; and


(ii) Describe how the territory will ensure that amounts received under the allotment are to be used only to provide covered discount card drugs to those individuals determined eligible for transitional assistance, as described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, and 


(iii) Provide such written assurance for the requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) CMS will review and approve plans submitted and make allotments to territories with approved plans.


(4) CMS may request reports or information to substantiate that the territories have administered the program consistent with the territory's approved transitional assistance plan.




